VILLAGE OF CALUMET PARK, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 20-1242, passed 11-12-2020
State legislation current through 2020 ALS #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Calumet Park shall be designated
as the Code of Calumet Park and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER.  When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD.  The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY.  Cook County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD.  The County Board of Cook County, Illinois. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT.  Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE.  Synonymous with JUDGMENT. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS.  Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections. 
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY,ROAD or STREET.  May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS.  Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter
amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves,
or as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal
nature.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR.  The President of the Village of Calumet Park.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE.  The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH.  Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER.  When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON.  Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships,
corporations, joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as
individuals. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS.  Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Calumet Park.  POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those  persons in
the employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or
shall hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS.  The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE.  The State of Illinois.
   STREET.  Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK.  Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Calumet Park.
   WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  Includes printing, electronic,  and any other mode
of representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person
is required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR.  A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone
is equivalent to the expression "Year of Our Lord". 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular;
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders;
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future; and
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An "ILCS" cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute. 
Example:  (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1) 
   (C)   An "ILCS" cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
   § 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this code or any
other ordinance adopted by the village shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $1,000 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
         
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
36.   FEES AND TAXATION
         
37.   CIVIL DEFENSE AND EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Disposing of personal property
   
30.02   Affirmative Action Program
   
30.03   Identity protection
   
30.04   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment
   
30.05   Written policies and procedures for qualification based selection (QBS)
§ 30.01  DISPOSING OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever two-thirds of the Corporate Authority of the Village of
Calumet Park then holding office have determined by motion, resolution or
ordinance that any personal property owned by the village, not exceeding a
value of $10,000 is no longer necessary or useful to the village in its
operations, the personal property may be sold or disposed of in any one of the
following manners:
      (1)   By public sale with or without advertising for the sale to the
person or persons offering the highest bid price for any such item of personal
property;
      (2)   By private sale with or without advertising for the sale to the
person or persons offering the highest bid price for any such item of personal
property;
      (3)   By sale to any unit of government for the sums of money as best
serve the interests of the Village of Calumet Park;
      (4)   By converting the personal property into some other form of
property that is useful to the Village of Calumet Park;
      (5)   By trading in the personal property as part payment for the
purchase price of any other personal property useful to the Village of Calumet
Park;
      (6)   By trading the personal property to another unit of government for
any item of property owned by the unit of government which is useful to the
Village of Calumet Park; or
      (7)   By gift to any unit of government.
   (B)   The Mayor of the Village of Calumet Park is hereby designated as the
person to carry out the provisions of this section relative to the disposition
of personal property when the disposition has been authorized by the Corporate
Authority of the Village of Calumet Park in the manner provided for in this
section.
(Ord. 80-325, passed 4-10-1980)
§ 30.02  AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   An Affirmative Action Program is hereby adopted by the Village of
Calumet Park as its Affirmative Action Program.
   (B)   All supervisory personnel, officers and employees are hereby ordered
and directed to carry out the intent of the policies set forth in the
Affirmative Action Program.
(Ord. 78-289, passed 9-14-1978)
§ 30.03  IDENTITY PROTECTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual in the employ of the Village of Calumet Park
("Village").
      PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY. To intentionally communicate or
otherwise intentionally make available to the general public.
   (B)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the village shall do any of the
following:
         (a)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual's
social security number.
         (b)   Print an individual's social security number on any card
required for the individual to access products or services provided by the
person or entity.
         (c)   Require an individual to transmit his or her social security
number over the internet, unless the connection is secure or the social
security number is encrypted.
         (d)   Print an individual’s social security number on any materials
that are mailed to the individual, through the U.S. Postal Service, any private
mail service, electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state
or federal law requires the social security number to be on the document to be
mailed. Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, social
security numbers may be included in applications and forms sent by mail,
including, but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with the
administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act, any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the Department of Revenue and documents
sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish, amend, or
terminate an account, contract, or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the
social security number. A social security number that may permissibly be mailed
under this section may not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or
other mailer that does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope
without the envelope having been opened.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this policy, beginning June 1,
2011, no officer or employee of the village shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Collect, use, or disclose a social security number from an
individual, unless (i) required to do so under state or federal law, rules or
regulations, or the collection, use or disclosure of the social security number
is otherwise necessary for the performance of that agency's duties and
responsibilities; (ii) the need and purpose for the social security number is
documented before collection of the social security number; and (iii) the
social security number collected is relevant to the documented need and
purpose.
         (b)   Require an individual to use his or her social security number
to access an internet website.
         (c)   Use the social security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
      (3)   The prohibitions in division (B) do not apply in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   The disclosure of social security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors of the village or disclosure to another
governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors, or subcontractors if
disclosure is necessary in order for the entity to perform its duties and
responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or subcontractor, prior to
such disclosure, the officer or employee of the village must first receive from
the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the contractor's or subcontractor’s
policy that sets forth how the requirements imposed under this policy on the
village to protect an individual's social security number will be achieved.
         (b)   The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court
order, warrant, or subpoena.
         (c)   The collection, use or disclosure of social security numbers in
order to ensure the safety of: village employees, persons committed to
correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement facilities or
retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a
village.
         (d)   The collection, use or disclosure of social security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes.
         (e)   The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate
or prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under
the federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act, or to locate a missing person, a lost
relative, or a person who is due a benefit such as a pension benefit or an
unclaimed property benefit.
      (4)   If any standards of the village for the collection, use, or
disclosure of social security numbers are stricter than the standards under
this policy with respect to the protection of those social security numbers,
then, in the event of any conflict with the provisions of this policy, the
stricter standards adopted by the village shall control.
   (C)   Public inspection and copying of documents.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this policy to the contrary, all
officers and employees of the village must comply with the provisions of any
other state law with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of
information or documents containing all or any portion of an individual's
social security number. All officers and employees of the village must redact
social security numbers from the information or documents before allowing the
public inspection or copying of the information or documents.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   This policy does not apply to the collection, use or disclosure of
a social security number as required by state or federal law, rule, or
regulation.
      (2)   This policy does not apply to documents that are required to be
open to the public under any state or federal law, rule, or regulation,
applicable case law, Supreme Court Rule, or the Constitution of the State of
Illinois.
   (E)   Compliance with federal law. If a federal law takes effect requiring
any federal agency to establish a national unique patient health identifier
program, the city shall follow that law.
   (F)   Embedded social security numbers. Beginning January 1, 2011, an
officer or employee of the village may encode or embed a social security number
in or on a card or document, including, but not limited to, using a bar code,
chip, magnetic strip, RFID technology, or other technology, in place of
removing the social security number as required by this policy.
   (G)   Identity; protection requirements.
      (1)   All officers, employees and agents of the village identified as
having access to social security numbers in the course of performing their
duties are to be trained to protect the confidentiality of social security
numbers. Training shall include instructions on the proper handling of
information that contains social security numbers from the time of collection
through the destruction of the information.
      (2)   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain social security numbers have access to such information
or documents.
      (3)   Social security numbers requested from an individual shall be
provided in a manner that makes the social security number easily redacted if
required to be released as part of a public records request.
      (4)   When collecting a social security number or upon request by the
individual, a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the village is
collecting and using the social security number shall be provided.
      (5)   A written copy of this privacy policy and any amendment thereto
shall be filed with the Clerk within 30 days after approval of this policy or
any amendment thereto.
      (6)   The village shall advise its employees of the existence of the
policy and make a copy of the policy available to each employee, and shall also
make this privacy policy available to any member of the public, upon request.
If the village amends this privacy policy, then the village shall advise its
employees of the existence of the amended policy and make a copy of the amended
policy available to each employee.
   (H)   Violation. Any person who intentionally violates the prohibitions in
Section 10 of the Identity Protection Act (division (B) of this section) is
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
   (I)   Supersede. This policy does not supersede any more restrictive law,
rule, or regulation regarding the collection, use, or disclosure of social
security numbers.
(Ord. 11-1028, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 30.04  POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to harass a person because of that
person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment is a form of
discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended
in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment free from sexual
harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects
individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the
village to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof.
   (B)   Definition of sexual harassment.  This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment,
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
   [missing text]
 
of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)
for information regarding filing a formal complaint with those entities. An DHR
complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is
a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must be filed within 300 days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         (b)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state
agency, or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation, pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous
or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 18-1193, passed 1-11-2017)
§ 30.05  WRITTEN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR QUALIFICATION BASED SELECTION
(QBS).
   The village receives federal funds, which may be used to fund the
engineering and design related consultants' services. The written policies and
procedures as described herein for QBS will meet the requirements of 23 CFR 172
and the Brooks Act.
   (A)   Initial administration. The village QBS policy and procedures assigns
responsibilities to the Village Mayor and Village Administrator within the
village organization for the procurement, management, and administration for
consultant services.
   (B)   Written policies and procedures. The village believes their adopted
QBS written policies and procedures substantially follows Section 5-5 of the
BLRS Manual and specifically Section 5-5.06(e), therefore; approval from IDOT
is not required.
   (C)   Project description. The village will use the following five items
when developing the project description and may include additional items when
unique circumstances exist.
      (1)   Describe in general terms the need, purpose, and objective of the
project;
      (2)   Identify the various project components;
      (3)    Establish the desired timetable for the effort; 
      (4)   Identify any expected problems; and
      (5)   Determine the total project budget.
   (D)   Public notice.  The village will post an announcement on our website
calumetparkvillage.org. The item will be advertised for at least 14 days prior
to the acceptance of proposals, and on continuous display on our website.
   (E)   Conflict of interest.  The village requires consultants to submit a
disclosure statement with their procedures. The village requires the use of the
IDOT BDE DISC 2 Template as their conflict of interest form.
   (F)   Suspension and debarment.  The village will use SAM Exclusions, IDOT's
CPO's website and the three other state CPO's websites to verify suspensions
and debarments actions to ensure the eligibility of firms short listed and
selected for projects.
   (G)   Evaluation factors.  The Village of Calumet Park allows the
Administrator to set the evaluation factors for each project but must include a
minimum of five (5) criterion and stay within the established weighting range.
The maximum of DBE and local presence combined will not be more that 10% on
projects where federal funds are used. Project specific evaluation factors will
be included at a minimum in the request for proposals.
 
Project Approach (10-30%)      Work Capacity (10-30%)
Firm Experience (10-30%)       Past Performance (10-30%)
Strength of Personnel (10-30%) Participation of DBE (10%)
Staffing Plan (10-30%)          
 
   (H)   Selection. 
      (1)   The Village of Calumet Park requires a minimum three person
selection committee. Typically, the selection committee members include the
Village Mayor, a Village Trustee, and an additional representative chosen by
the Mayor. Usually the city has at least one member, but not more than three
members from outside the Village. These outside members may be officials or
engineers from nearby communities, county engineers, or members of the
community. The selection committee members must certify that they do not have a
conflict of interest. Selection committee members are chosen by the Village
Mayor for each project. The Village of Calumet Park require each member of the
selection committee to provide an independent score for each proposal using the
form below prior to the selection committee meeting.
 
Criteria      Weighting Points Firm 1 Firm 2 Firm ...
Criterion 1   (10-30%)                     
Criterion 2   (10-30%)                     
Criterion ... (10-30%)                     
Total         100%                         
            
      (2)   The selection committee members' scores are averaged for a
committee score which is used to establish a short list of three firms. The
committee score is adjusted by the committee based on group discussion and
information gained from presentations and interviews to develop a final
ranking. If there are other firms within 10% of the minimum score, the Village
Mayor may choose to expand the short list to include more than three firms.
   (I)   Independent estimate.  The Village of Calumet Park or a government
partner will prepare an independent in-house estimate for the project prior to
contract negotiation. The estimate is used in the negotiation.
   (J)   Contract negotiation.  The Village of Calumet Park requires a minimum
two-person team to negotiate with firms. The team consists of the Village Mayor
and an appointee. Members of the negotiation team may delegate this
responsibility to staff members.
   (K)   Acceptable costs.  The Village of Calumet Park requires the Village
Mayor and any designee to review the contract costs and the indirect cost rates
to assure they are compliant with Federal cost principles prior to submission
to IDOT.
   (L)   Invoice processing.  The Village of Calumet Park requires the project
manager assigned to any project using federal funds to review and approve all
invoices prior to payment and submission to IDOT for reimbursement.
   (M)   Project administration. The Village of Calumet Park requires the
assigned project manager to monitor work on the project in accordance with the
contract and to file reports with the Village Mayor. The Village of Calumet
Park procedures require an evaluation of the consultant's work at the end of
each project. These reports are maintained in the Village of Calumet Park's
consultant information database. The Village of Calumet Park follows IDOT's
requirements and the required submission of Form BLR 05613 to the IDOT district
at contract close-out along with the final invoice.
(Ord. 20-1234, passed 5-14-2020)
CHAPTER 31:  BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Regular meetings; time, date and place
Electronic Attendance at Meetings
   
31.015   Rules statement
   
31.016   Prerequisite
   
31.017   Voting procedures
   
31.018   Adequate equipment required
   
31.019   Minutes
   
31.020   Rights to remote member
   
31.021   Mayor
   
31.022   Committees, boards and commissions
Authorization to Finance Projects and the Like
   
31.035   Definitions
   
31.036   Legislative declaration of purpose
   
31.037   Additional powers
   
31.038   Exercise of powers; bonds
   
31.039   Covenants in bonds
   
31.040   Signatures of officers on bonds; validity
   
31.041   Lien of bonds
   
31.042   Liability for bonds
   
31.043   Investment of funds
   
31.044   Exemption from construction and bidding requirements for public
buildings
   
31.045   Powers conferred as additional and supplemental; limitations
Eminent Domain
   
31.060   Exercise of the right
   
31.061   Compensation; jury
   
31.062   Proceedings; parties
   
31.063   Motion for taking; contents
   
31.064   Hearing; preliminary; findings of compensation
   
31.065   Deposit in court; order and possession; rental
   
31.066   Withdrawals by persons having an interest hearing
   
31.067   Persons contesting the taking
   
31.068   Interest payments
   
31.069   Refund of excess of deposit
   
31.070   Proceedings; dismissal; abandonment
   
31.071   Payment if action goes against petitioner
   
31.072   Construction of ordinance
   
31.073   Construction easement
   
31.074   Service; notice
   
31.075   Hearing
   
31.076   Impaneling jury
   
31.077   Oath of jury
   
31.078   View of premises; verdict
   
31.079   Admissibility of evidence
   
31.080   Special benefits
   
31.081   Fair cash market value; appreciation
   
31.082   Reimbursement; attorney's fees; appraisal
   
31.083   Judgements; jurisdiction to determine rights to compensation;
dismissal of petition before entry of judgment
   
31.084   Intervening petition
   
31.085   Appeals
   
31.086   Bond; use of premises
   
31.087   Payment for disbursement to parties
   
31.088   Distribution of compensation; contract for deed
   
31.089   Judgement entered
   
31.090   Lands of village institutions not taken
   
31.091   Subject matter findings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME, DATE AND PLACE.
   Commencing with the month of May 1970, all regular meetings of the President
and Board of Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park, Illinois, shall be held
on the second and fourth Thursday of each month at the hour of 8:00 p.m. at the
Village Hall, 12409 S. Throop Street, Calumet Park, Illinois.
(Ord. 70-117, passed 5-28-1970)
ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
§ 31.015  RULES STATEMENT.
   Any member of the Corporate Authorities may attend any open or closed
meeting of the Village of Calumet Park via electronic means (by telephone or
video only) provided that the attendance is in compliance with these rules and
any applicable laws.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 31.016  PREREQUISITE.
   Any member of the Corporate Authorities may attend a meeting electronically
if the member meets the following conditions:
   (A)   A quorum is physically present throughout the meeting and a majority
of the Corporate Authorities votes to approve the electronic attendance at the
meeting;
   (B)   The member shall notify the Village Clerk at least 24 hours before the
meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary technical arrangements will
result in denial of a request for remote attendance; and
   (C)   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
      (1)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or disability;
      (2)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the Village of Calumet Park; or
      (3)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 31.017  VOTING PROCEDURES.
   After a roll call establishing a quorum is physically present, the presiding
officer shall call for a motion that a member shall be permitted to attend the
meeting electronically after specifying the reason entitling the absent member
to attend electronically. The motion must be approved by a vote of a majority
of the Corporate Authorities.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 31.018  ADEQUATE EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The member participating electronically and other members of the
Corporate Authorities must be able to communicate effectively, and members of
the audience must be able to hear all communications at the meeting site.
   (B)   Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the Village of
Calumet Park shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at
the meeting site.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 31.019  MINUTES.
   (A)   Any member attending electronically shall be considered an off-site
attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the member
is allowed to attend.
   (B)   The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state specifically whether
each member is physically present or reflect and state specifically whether
each member is physically present or present by electronic means.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 31.020  RIGHTS TO REMOTE MEMBER.
   (A)   A member permitted to attend electronically will be able to express
his or her comments during the meeting and participate in the same capacity as
those members physically present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and
procedures previously adopted and adhered to. The member attending
electronically shall be heard, considered and counted as to any vote taken.
   (B)   Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically shall be
called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded by the
Village Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 31.021  MAYOR.
   If the Mayor is attending a meeting electronically, a Trustee physically
present at the meeting site will be appointed the presiding officer for that
meeting via motion and approval by the Corporate Authorities.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 31.022  COMMITTEES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   These rules shall apply to all committees, board and commissions established
by authority of the Corporate Authorities.
(Ord. 07-938, passed 6-14-2007)
AUTHORIZATION TO FINANCE PROJECTS AND THE LIKE
§ 31.035  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.  Any land, interest in land, building,
structure, facility, system, fixture, improvement, addition, appurtenance,
machinery or equipment or any combination thereof, and all real and person
property deemed necessary in connection therewith, for use by any person,
provided that the existence of the economic development project will create or
retain employment opportunities in the municipality.
   MUNICIPALITY.  The Village of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation (including public utilities), association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or any other legal entity,
or its legal representative, agent or assigns.
   POLLUTION.  Any form of environmental pollution including, but not limited
to, water pollution, air pollution, land pollution, solid waste pollution,
thermal pollution, radiation contamination, or noise pollution as determined by
the various standards prescribed by this state, the federal government or other
governmental entities and including but not limited to, anything which is
considered as pollution or environmental damage in the Environmental Protection
Act, compiled as ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, and any amendment thereto and
substitution therefor.
   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY.  Any land, interest in land, building,
structure, facility, system, fixture, improvement, appurtenance, addition,
machinery or equipment, or any combination thereof, and all real and personal
property deemed necessary therewith, having to do with or the end purpose of
which is, reducing, controlling or preventing pollution.
   PROJECT.  Any economic development project or pollution control facility or
any combination thereof.
   PROJECT COSTS.  Includes the sum total of all reasonable or necessary costs
incidental to the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair,
alteration, improvement and extension of a project including without limitation
the cost of studies and surveys; plans, specifications, architectural and
engineering services; legal, marketing or other special services, financing,
acquisition, demolition, construction, equipment and site development of new
and rehabilitated buildings, rehabilitation, reconstruction, repair or
remodeling of existing buildings and all other necessary and incidental
expenses including an initial bond and interest reserve together with interest
on bonds issued to finance a project to a date six months subsequent to the
estimated date of completion.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.036  LEGISLATIVE DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined and declared that the purpose of this subchapter is
to provide a financing device which will aid in financing the rest of projects
in order to relieve conditions of unemployment, and to encourage the increase
of industry within the municipality, thereby reducing the evils attendant upon
unemployment and to provide for the increased welfare and prosperity of the
residents of the municipality; it is hereby further determined and declared to
be the purpose of this subchapter to provide a financing device which will aid
in financing the cost of pollution control facilities in order to eliminate,
abate or reduce the serious dangers to the public health and welfare caused by
environmental pollution; and the same are hereby declared and determined to be
public purposes and functions pertaining to the government and affairs of the
municipality.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.037  ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   (A)   In addition to powers which it may now have, the municipality shall
have the power under this subchapter:
      (1)   To construct, acquire by gift, purchase or lease, to reconstruct,
improve, better or extend and to finance one or more projects, whether or not
now or hereafter in existence, within or without the municipality or partially
within or partially without the municipality, but in no event further than ten
miles from the territorial boundaries of the municipality, and, if desirable,
to acquire by gift, purchase or lease lands or rights in land in connection
with any project;
      (2)   To issue its revenue bonds to defray in whole or in part the
project costs of any project and to designate an appropriate name for the
bonds;
      (3)   To rent, lease or sell any project to any person in such manner
that payments to be received with respect to the project shall produce revenues
and receipts sufficient to provide for the prompt payment at maturity of
principal, interest and redemption premiums, if any, upon all bonds issued to
finance the cost of the project;
      (4)   To pledge to the punctual payment of bonds authorized under this
subchapter, the interest thereon, and the redemption premiums if any, the
revenues and receipts to be received from the project;
      (5)   To mortgage the project in favor of the holder or holders of bonds
issued therefor;
      (6)   To sell and convey the project, including without limitation the
sale and conveyance thereof subject to a mortgage, if any, as provided in this
subchapter, for the price and at the price as the governing body of the
municipality may determine. However, no sale or conveyance of the project shall
ever be made in the manner as to impair the rights or interests of the holder
or holders of any bonds issued to finance the project costs of the project;
      (7)   To issue its bonds to refund in whole or in part, bonds theretofore
issued by the municipality under authority of this subchapter; and
      (8)   To enter into a loan agreement in lieu of any lease agreement with
any person and accept a note and/or a mortgage as evidence of any security for
the person's obligation to repay the proceeds of revenue bonds and pledge the
note and/or mortgage for the benefit of the holders of the bonds.
   (B)   Property acquired by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter shall be exempt from the imposition and collection of taxes
thereon while owned by the municipality, but the use of the property is subject
to taxation to be paid by the lessee or occupant as provided in § 26 of the
"Revenue Act of 1939" filed May 17, 1939, or as may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.038  EXERCISE OF POWERS; BONDS.
   (A)   The exercise of all powers granted by this subchapter may be
authorized, and bonds may be authorized to be issued under this subchapter for
the purposes set forth in this subchapter, by ordinance of the governing body
of the municipality which may be adopted at the same meeting at which it is
introduced and shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
   (B)   The bonds shall bear interest at the rate or rates, payable at such
times, may be in one or more series, may bear such date or dates, may mature at
such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their respective dates, may be
payable in the medium of payment at the place or places, may carry the
registration privileges, may be subject to the terms of redemption at the
premiums may be executed in the manner, may contain the terms, covenants and
conditions, and may be in such form, either coupon or registered, as the
ordinance may provide or as may be subsequently determined by the governing
body before the bonds are issued.
   (C)   The bonds may be sold at public or private sale in such manner and
upon such terms as may be deemed advisable by the governing body of the
municipality, pending the preparation of the definitive bonds, interim receipts
or certificates in such form and with such provisions as the governing body of
the municipality may determine, to be issued to the purchaser or purchasers of
bonds sold pursuant to this subchapter.
   (D)   The bonds and interim receipts or certificates shall be deemed to
securities and negotiable instruments within the meaning and for all purposes
of the "Uniform Commercial Code".
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.039  COVENANTS IN BONDS.
   (A)   Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this subchapter
may contain covenants from the project for which the bonds are to be issued,
including the creation and maintenance of reserves; the issuance of other or
additional bonds relating to the project or any rehabilitation, improvements,
renovations, enlargements or additions thereto; the maintenance and repair of
the project; the insurance to be carried thereon and the use and disposition of
insurance moneys; the appointment of any bank or trust company within or
outside the State of Illinois, having the necessary trust powers as trustee for
the benefit of the bondholders, paying agent and bond registrar; the investment
of any funds held by the trustee; and the terms and conditions upon which the
holders of the bonds or any portion thereof or any trustees therefor, are
entitled to the appointment of a receiver. Any ordinance authorizing the
issuance of bonds under this subchapter may provide that the principal of and
interest on any bonds issued under this subchapter shall be secured by a
mortgage or indenture of trust covering the project for which the bonds are
issued and may include any improvements or extensions thereafter made.
   (B)   The mortgage or indenture of trust may contain the covenants and
agreements to properly safeguard the bonds and continue in effect until the
principal of, the interest on, and the redemption premiums, if any, on the
bonds so issued have been fully paid, and the duties of the municipality and
its corporate authorities and officers under this subchapter and any such
ordinance or ordinances and any such mortgage or indenture of trust shall be
enforceable by any bondholder by mandamus, foreclosure of any such mortgage or
indenture of trust or other appropriate suit, action or proceedings in any
court of competent jurisdiction; provided the ordinance or any mortgage or
indenture of trust under which the bonds are issued may provide that all the
remedies and rights to enforcement may be vested in a trustee for the benefit
of all the bondholders which trustee shall be subject to the control of a
majority of the holders or owners of any outstanding bonds.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.040  SIGNATURES OF OFFICERS ON BONDS; VALIDITY.
   The bonds shall bear the signatures of the officers of the municipality as
may be designated in the ordinance authorizing the bonds and the signatures
shall be the valid and binding signatures of the officers of the municipality,
notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payments therefor any or
all of the persons whose signatures may appear thereon have ceased to be
officers of the municipality issuing the bonds. The validity of the bonds is
not dependent on nor affected by the validity or regularity of any proceedings
relating to the acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction,
improvement, equipping, betterment or extension of the project for which the
bonds are issued. The ordinance authorizing the bonds may provide that the
bonds shall contain a recital shall be conclusive evidence of their validity
and of the regularity of their issuance.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.041  LIEN OF BONDS.
   All bonds issued under this subchapter have a lien upon the revenues and
receipts derived from the project for which the bonds have been issued, and the
governing body may provide in the ordinance or ordinances authorizing the bonds
for the issuance of additional bonds to be equally and ratably secured by a
lien upon the revenues and receipts or may provide that the lien upon the
revenues and receipts is subordinate.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.042  LIABILITY FOR BONDS.
   (A)   All bonds issued under and pursuant to this subchapter shall be
limited obligations of the municipality payable solely out of the revenues and
receipts derived from the project with respect to which the bonds are issued.
   (B)   No holder of any bonds issued under this subchapter has the right to
compel any exercise of taxing power of the municipality to pay the bonds, the
interest or premium, if any, thereon, and the bonds do not constitute an
indebtedness of the municipality or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning
of any constitutional or statutory provision.
   (C)   It shall be plainly stated on the face of each bond that it has been
issued under the provisions of this subchapter and that it does not constitute
an indebtedness of the municipality or a loan of credit thereof within the
meaning of any constitutional or statutory provisions.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.043  INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The municipality, or any trustee on behalf of the municipality, may
invest any funds held by it pursuant to this subchapter in bonds, notes,
certificates of indebtedness, treasury bills or other securities constituting
direct obligations of the United States of America; in certificates of deposit
or time deposits constituting direct obligations of any bank as defined by the
Illinois Banking Act, being ILCS Ch. 205, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq., as heretofore
and hereafter amended, provided, however, that investments may be made only in
those certificates of deposit or time deposits in banks which are insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, if then in existence; or in short
term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association.
   (B)   Any such securities may be purchased at the offering or market price
thereof at the time of the purchase.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.044  EXEMPTION FROM CONSTRUCTION AND BIDDING REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC
BUILDINGS.
   The acquisition and construction of a project shall not be subject to any
requirements relating to public buildings, structures, grounds, works or
improvements proposed by the Illinois Revised Statutes or any other similar
requirements which may be lawfully waived by this section and any requirement
of competitive bidding or restriction imposed on the procedure for award of
contracts for the purpose or the lease, or other disposition of property of the
municipality is not applicable to any action taken under authority of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
§ 31.045  POWERS CONFERRED AS ADDITIONAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The powers conferred by this subchapter are in addition and
supplemental to, and the limitations imposed by this subchapter shall not
affect, the powers conferred by any law or any other ordinance.
   (B)   Projects may be acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed,
improved, bettered, equipped, extended and financed, and bonds may be issued
under this subchapter for the purposes, notwithstanding that any law or any
other-ordinance may provide for the acquisition, purchase, construction,
reconstruction, improvement, equipping, betterment, extension and financing for
a like project, or the issuance of bonds for like purposes, and without regard
to the requirements, restrictions, limitations or other provisions contained in
any law or any other ordinance.
(Ord. 81-374, passed 10-22-1981)
EMINENT DOMAIN
§ 31.060  EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT.
   In any proceeding initiated by the village in the exercise of its right of
eminent domain within the village limits, the village may elect to proceed
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.061  COMPENSATION; JURY.
   (A)   Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public use without
just compensation; and that in all cases in which compensation is not made by
the village in its corporate capacity, the compensation shall be ascertained by
a jury, as hereinafter prescribed.
   (B)   Where compensation is so made by the village, any party upon
application may have a trial by jury to ascertain the just compensation to be
paid.
   (C)   The demand on the part of the village shall be filed with the petition
for condemnation of the village.
   (D)   Where the village is the petitioner, a defendant desirous of a trial
by jury must file a demand therefor on or before the return date of the summons
served on him or her or fixed in the publication in case of defendants served
by publication. In the event no party in the condemnation suit demands a trial
by jury as provided for by this section, then the trial shall be before the
court sitting without a jury.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.062  PROCEEDINGS; PARTIES.
   (A)   Where the right to take private property for public use, without the
owner's consent, including but not limited to commercial renewal and business
district development and/or redevelopment rights as provided for in ILCS
Divisions 74.2 and 74.3, 1981, as amended, or as expanded upon by home rule
powers, or the right to construct or maintain any public road, railroad,
plankroad, turnpike road, canal or other public work or improvement, or which
may damage property not actually taken has been heretofore or shall hereafter
be conferred by general law or special charter upon any corporate or municipal
authority, public body, officer, or agent, person, commissioner or corporation
and the compensation to be paid for or in respect of the property sought to be
appropriated or damaged for the purposes mentioned cannot be agreed upon by the
parties interest, or in case the owner of the property is incapable of
consenting, or the owner's name or residence is unknown, or the owner is a
nonresident of the state, the party authorized to take or damage the property
so required, or to construct, operate and maintain any public road, railroad,
plankroad, turnpike road, canal or other public work or improvement, may apply
to the circuit court of the county where the property or any part thereof is
situated, by filing with the Clerk a petition, setting forth, by reference, his
or her or their authority in the premises, the purpose for which the property
is sought to be taken or damaged, a description of the property, the names of
all persons interested therein as owners, or otherwise as appearing of record,
if known, or if not known stating that fact and praying the court to cause the
compensation to be paid to the owner to be assessed.
   (B)   If it appears that any person not in being, upon coming into being,
is, or may become or may claim to be, entitled to any interest in the property
sought to be appropriated or damaged the court shall appoint some competent and
disinterested person as guardian ad litem, to appear for and represent the
interest in the proceeding and to defend the proceeding on behalf of the person
not in being, and any judgment or decree rendered in the proceeding shall be as
effectual for all purposes as though the person was in being and was a party to
the proceeding.
   (C)   If the proceeding seeks to affect the property of persons under
guardianship, the guardians or conservators shall be made parties defendant.
Persons interested, whose names are unknown, may be made parties defendant by
the same descriptions and in the same manner as provided in other civil cases.
   (D)   No property belonging to a railroad or other public utility subject to
the jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission may be taken or damaged,
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, without the prior approval of
the Illinois Commerce Commission.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.063  MOTION FOR TAKING; CONTENTS.
   (A)   In any proceeding instituted under the provisions of this subchapter
or by the village in the exercise of its right of eminent domain for the
acquisition of land or interests therein, the petitioner, at any time after the
petition has been filed and before judgment is entered in the proceeding, may
file a written motion requesting that, immediately or at some specified later
date, the petitioner either be vested with the fee simple title (or the lesser
estate, interest or easement, as may be required) to the real property, or
specified portion thereof, which is the subject of the proceeding, and be
authorized to take possession of and use the property; or only be authorized to
take possession of and to use the property, if the possession and use, without
the vesting of title, are sufficient to permit the petitioner to proceed with
the project until the final ascertainment of compensation; however, no land or
interests therein now or hereafter owned, leased, controlled or operated and
used by, or necessary for the actual operation of, any common carrier engaged
in interstate commerce, or any other public utility subject to the jurisdiction
of the Illinois Commerce Commission, shall be taken or appropriated hereunder
by the village without securing the approval of the Commission.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter stated, the motion for taking shall state:
      (1)   An accurate description of the property to which the motion relates
and the estate or interest sought to be acquired therein;
      (2)   The formally adopted schedule or plan of operation for the
execution of the petitioner's project;
      (3)   The situation of the property to which the motion relates with
respect to the schedule or plan;
      (4)   The necessity for taking the property in the manner requested in
the motion; and
      (5)   If the property to be taken shall be owned, leased, controlled or
operated by and used by, or necessary for the actual operation of, any
interstate common carrier, or other public utility subject to the jurisdiction
of the Illinois Commerce Commission, a statement to the effect that the
approval of the proposed taking has been secured from the Commission and
attaching to the motion a certified copy of the order of the Commission
granting the approval. If the schedule or plan of operation is not set forth
fully in the motion, a copy of the schedule or plan shall be attached to the
motion.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.064  HEARING; PRELIMINARY; FINDINGS OF COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The court shall fix a date, not less than five days after the filing
of the motion, for the hearing thereon, and shall require due notice to be
given to each party to the proceedings whose interests would be affected by the
taking requested, except that any party who has been or is being served by
publication and who has not entered his or her appearance in the proceeding
need not be given notice unless the court so requires, in its discretion and in
the interests of justice.
   (B)   At the hearing, if the court has not previously, in the same
proceeding, determined that the petitioner has authority to exercise the right
of eminent domain, that the property sought to be taken is subject to the
exercise of the right, and that the right is not being improperly exercised in
the particular proceeding, then the court first shall hear and determine the
matters. The court's order thereon is appealable, and an appeal may be taken
therefrom by either party within 30 days after the entry of the order, but not
thereafter unless the court, on good cause shown, shall extend the time for
taking the appeal. However, no appeal shall stay the further proceedings herein
prescribed unless the appeal is taken by the petitioner, or unless on order
staying the further proceedings shall be entered either by the trial court or
by the court to which the appeal is taken.
   (C)   If the forgoing matters are determined in favor of the petitioner and
further proceedings are not stayed, or if further proceedings are stayed and
the appeal results in a determination in favor of the petitioner, then the
court shall hear the issues raised by the petitioner's motion for taking. If
the court finds that reasonable necessity exists for taking the property in the
manner requested in the motion, the court then shall hear the evidence as it
may consider necessary and proper for a preliminary finding or just
compensation; and in its discretion, the court may appoint three competent and
disinterested appraisers as agents of the court to evaluate the property to
which the motion relates and to report their conclusions to the court; and
their fees shall be paid by the petitioner. The court then shall make a
preliminary finding of the amount constituting just compensation.
   (D)   The preliminary finding of just compensation, and any deposit made or
security provided pursuant thereto, shall not be evidence in the further
proceedings to ascertain finally the just compensation to be paid, and shall
not be disclosed in any manner to a jury impaneled in the proceedings; and if
appraisers have been appointed as herein authorized, their report shall not be
evidence in the further proceedings, but the appraisers may be called as
witnesses by the parties to the proceedings.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.065  DEPOSIT IN COURT; ORDER AND POSSESSION; RENTAL.
   (A)   If the petitioner deposits with the County Treasurer money in the
amount preliminarily found by the court to be just compensation, the court
shall enter an order of taking, vesting in the petitioner the fee simple title
(or the lesser estate, interest or easement, as may be required) to the
property, if the vesting has been requested, and has been found necessary by
the court, at such date as the court considers proper, and fixing a date on
which the petitioner is authorized to take possession of and to use the
property.
   (B)   If, at the request of any interested party and upon his or her showing
of undue hardship or other good cause, the petitioner's authority to take
possession of the property is postponed for more than ten days after the date
of the vesting of title, or more than 15 days after the entry of the order when
the order does not vest title in the petitioner, then the party shall pay to
the petitioner a reasonable rental for the property, the amount thereof to be
determined by the court. A writ of assistance, injunction or any other
appropriate legal process or procedure shall be available to place the
petitioner in possession of the property on and after the date fixed by the
court for the taking of the possession, and to prevent any unauthorized
interference with the possession and the petitioner's proper use of the
property.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.066  WITHDRAWALS BY PERSONS HAVING AN INTEREST HEARING.
   (A)   At any time after the petitioner has taken possession of the property
pursuant to the order of taking, if an appeal has not been and will not be
taken from the court's order described in §
31.064(B) above, or if such an appeal has been taken and has been determined in
favor of the petitioner, any party interested in the property may apply to the
court for authority to withdraw for his or her own use his or her share (or any
part thereof) of the amount of preliminarily found by the court to be just
compensation, and deposited by the petitioner in accordance with the provisions
of §
31.065(A) above, as such share shall have been determined by the court.
   (B)   The court then shall fix a date for a hearing on the application, and
shall require due notice of the application to be given to each party whose
interests would be affected by the withdrawal.
   (C)   After the hearing, the court may authorize the withdrawal requested,
or the part thereof as shall be proper, but upon the condition that the party
making the withdrawal shall refund to the Clerk of the Court, upon the entry of
a proper court order, any portion of the amount so withdrawn which shall exceed
the amount finally ascertained in the proceeding to be just compensation (or
damages, costs, expenses, or attorney fees) owing to the party.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.067  PERSONS CONTESTING THE TAKING.
   Neither the petitioner nor any party interested in the property, by taking
any action authorized by §§
31.063 through
31.066, inclusive, of this subchapter, shall be prejudiced in any way in
contesting, in later stages of the proceeding, the amount to be finally
ascertained to be just compensation.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.068  INTEREST PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The petitioner shall pay, in addition to the just compensation finally
adjudged in the proceeding, interest at the rate of 6% per annum upon:
      (1)   Any excess of the just compensation so finally adjudged, over the
amount preliminarily found by the court to be just compensation in accordance
with §
31.064 above, from the date on which the parties interested in the property
surrendered possession of the property in accordance with the order of taking,
to the date of payment of the excess by the petitioner; and
      (2)   Any portion of the amount preliminarily found by the court to be
just compensation and deposited by the petitioner, to which any interested
party is entitled, if the interested party applied for authority to withdraw
the portion in accordance with §
31.066 above and upon objection by the petitioner (other than on grounds that
an appeal under §
31.064(B) above is pending or contemplated), the authority was denied; interest
to be paid to the party from the date of the petitioner's deposit to the date
of payment to the party.
   (B)   When interest is allowable as provided in division (A)(1) above, no
further interest shall be allowed.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.069  REFUND OF EXCESS OF DEPOSIT.
   If the amount withdrawn from deposit by any interested party under the
provision of §
31.066 above exceeds the amount finally adjudged to be just compensation (or
damages, costs, expenses and attorneys fees) due to the party, the court shall
order the party to refund the excess to the Clerk of the Court, and if refund
is not made within a reasonable time fixed by the court, shall enter judgment
for the excess in favor of the petitioner and against the party.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.070  PROCEEDINGS; DISMISSAL; ABANDONMENT.
   After the petitioner has taken possession of the property pursuant to the
order of taking, the petitioner shall have no right to dismiss the petition, or
to abandon the proceeding, as to all or any part of the property so taken,
except upon the consent of all parties to the proceeding whose interests would
be affected by the dismissal or abandonment.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.071  PAYMENT IF ACTION GOES AGAINST PETITIONER.
   If, on an appeal taken under the provisions of §
31.064 above, the petitioner shall be determined not to have the authority to
maintain the proceedings as to any property, which is the subject thereof, or
if, with the consent of all parties to the proceeding whose interests shall be
affected, the petitioner dismisses the petition or abandons the proceedings as
to any the property, the trial court then shall enter a nonvesting the title to
the property in the parties entitled thereto, if the order of taking vested
title in the petitioner; requiring the petitioner to deliver possession of the
property to the parties entitled to the possession thereof; and making the
provisions as shall be just, for the payment of damages arising out of the
petitioner's taking and use of the property, and also for costs, expenses and
attorney fees, and the court may order the clerk of the court to pay such sums
to the parties entitled thereto, out of the money deposited by the petitioner
in accordance with the provisions of §
31.065(A) above.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.072  CONSTRUCTION OF ORDINANCE.
   The right to take possession and title prior to the final judgment as
prescribed in §§
31.063 through
31.071 above shall be in addition to any other right, power or authority
otherwise conferred by law, and shall not be construed as abrogating, limiting
or modifying any such other right, power or authority.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.073  CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT.
   In any case where a taking is for construction easement only, any structure
which has been removed or taken shall be repaired, re-established or relocated
at the option of the landowner when the cost of the action does not exceed the
just compensation otherwise payable to the landowner.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.074  SERVICE; NOTICE.
   Service of summons and publication of notice shall be made as in other civil
cases.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.075  HEARING.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
31.064,
31.065,
31.066 and
31.071, no cause shall be heard earlier than 20 days after service upon
defendant or upon due publication against nonresidents. Any number of separate
parcels of property situated in the village may be included in one petition,
and the compensation for each shall be assessed separately by the same or
different juries, as the court or judge may direct. Amendments to the petition,
or to any paper or record in the cause, may be permitted whenever necessary to
a fair trial and final determination of the question involved.
   (B)   Should it become necessary at any state of the proceedings to bring a
new party before the court or judge, the court or judge shall have the power to
make the rule or order in relation thereto as may be deemed reasonable and
proper; and shall also have power to make all necessary rules and orders for
notice to parties of the pendency of the proceedings, and to issue all process
necessary to the execution of orders and judgments as may be entered.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.076  IMPANELING JURY.
   The petitioner, and every party interested in the ascertaining of
compensation, shall have the same right of challenge of jurors as in other
civil cases in the circuit courts.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.077  OATH OF JURY.
   When the jury shall have been so selected, the court shall cause the
following oath to be administered to the jury:
      "You and each of you do solemnly swear that you will well and truly
ascertain and report just compensation to the owner (and each owner) of the
property which it is sought to take or damage in this case, and to each person
therein interested, according to the facts in the case, as the same may be made
to appear by the evidence, and that you will truly report such compensation so
ascertained; so help you God."
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.078  VIEW OF PREMISES; VERDICT.
   (A)   The jury shall, at the request of either party, go upon the land
sought to be taken or damaged, in person, and examine the same, and after
hearing the proof offered make their report in writing, and the same shall be
subject to amendment by the jury, under the direction of the court, so as to
clearly set forth and show the compensation ascertained to each person thereto
entitled, and the verdict shall thereupon be recorded.
   (B)   Provided, that no benefits or advantages which may accrue to lands or
property affected shall be set off against or deducted from the compensation,
in any case.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.079  ADMISSIBILITY OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Evidence is admissible as to: any benefit to the landowner that will
result from the public improvement for which the eminent domain proceedings
were instituted; any unsafe, unsanitary, substandard or other illegal
condition, use or occupancy of the property; the effect of the condition on
income from the property; and the reasonable cost of causing the property to be
placed in a legal condition, use or occupancy.
   (B)   The evidence is admissible notwithstanding the absence of any official
action taken to require the correction or abatement of any such illegal
condition, use or occupancy.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.080  SPECIAL BENEFITS.
   (A)   In assessing damages or compensation for any taking or property
acquisition under this subchapter, due consideration shall be given to any
special benefit that will result to the property owner from any public
improvement to be erected on the property.
   (B)   This section shall be applicable to all private property taken or
acquired for public use, and shall apply whether damages or compensation are
fixed by negotiation, by a court, or by a jury.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.081  FAIR CASH MARKET VALUE; APPRECIATION.
   (A)   Except as to property designated as possessing in a special use, the
fair cash market value of property in a proceeding in eminent domain shall be
the amount of money which a purchaser, willing but not obligated to buy the
property, would pay to an owner willing but not obliged to sell in a voluntary
sale, which the amount of money shall be determined and ascertained as of the
date of filing the petition to condemn.
   (B)   Provided, that in the condemnation of property for a public
improvement, there shall be excluded from the amount of money any appreciation
in value proximately caused by the improvement, and any depreciation in value
proximately caused by the improvement. Provided further, that the appreciation
or depreciation shall not be excluded where property is condemned for a
separate project conceived independently of and subsequent to the original
project.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.082  REIMBURSEMENT; ATTORNEY'S FEES; APPRAISAL.
   Where the village is required by a court to initiate condemnation
proceedings for the actual physical taking of real property, the court
rendering judgment for the property owner and awarding just compensation for
the taking shall determine and award or allow to the property owner, as part of
the judgment or award, such further sums, as will in the opinion of the court,
reimburse the property owner for his or her reasonable costs, disbursements and
expenses, including reasonable attorney, appraisal and engineering fees
actually incurred by the property owner in the proceedings.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.083  JUDGMENTS; JURISDICTION TO DETERMINE RIGHTS TO COMPENSATION;
DISMISSAL OF PETITION BEFORE ENTRY OF JUDGMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If the petitioner is not in possession pursuant to an order
entered under the provisions of §
31.065 above, the judge or court, upon the report, or upon the court's
ascertainment and finding of the just compensation where there was no jury,
shall proceed to adjudge and make such order as to right and justice shall
pertain, ordering that petitioner enter upon such property and the use of the
same upon payment of full compensation as ascertained as aforesaid, within a
reasonable time to be fixed by the court, and the order, with evidence of the
payment, shall constitute complete justification of the taking of the property.
      (2)   Thereupon, the court in the same eminent domain proceeding in which
the orders have been made, shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
determine all rights in and to such just compensation and shall make findings
as to the rights of the parties therein, which shall be paid by the County
Treasurer out of the respective awards deposited with him or her as provided in
§
31.087 below, except where the awards deposited with him or her as provided in
§
31.087, except where the parties claimant are engaged in litigation in a court
having acquired jurisdiction of the parties with respect to their rights in the
property condemned prior to the time of the filing of the petition to condemn.
Appeals may be taken from any findings by the court as to the rights of the
parties in and to the compensation paid to the County Treasurer as in other
civil cases. If in such case the petitioner shall dismiss the petition before
the entry of the order by the court first mentioned in this division (A) or
shall fail to make payment of full compensation within the time named in such
order, or if the final judgment is that the petitioner cannot acquire the
property by condemnation, the court or judge shall, upon application of the
defendants to said petition or either of them, make the order in the cause for
the payment by the petitioner of all costs, expenses and reasonable attorney
fees of the defendant or defendants paid or incurred by the defendant or
defendants in defense of the petition, as upon the hearing of the application
shall be right and just, and also for the payment of the taxable costs.
   (B)   In case the petitioner is in possession pursuant to an order entered
under the provisions of §
31.065 above and if §
31.071 above is inapplicable, then the court, upon the jury's report, or upon
the court's determination of just compensation if there was no jury, shall
proceed to enter an order setting forth the amount of just compensation so
finally ascertained and ordering and directing the payment of any amount
thereof that may remain due to any of the interested parties, directing the
return of any excess in the deposit remaining with the Clerk of the Court, and
directing the refund of any excess amount withdrawn from the deposit by any of
the interested parties, as the case may be.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.084  INTERVENING PETITION.
   Any person not made a party may become such by filing his or her intervening
petition, setting forth that he or she is the owner or has an interest in
property, and which will be taken or damaged by the proposed work; and the
rights of the last named petitioner shall thereupon be fully considered and
determined.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.085  APPEALS.
   Appeals may be taken as in other civil cases.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.086  BOND; USE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   In cases in which compensation shall be ascertained as aforesaid, if
the party in whose favor the same is ascertained shall appeal the proceeding,
the petitioner shall, notwithstanding, have the right to enter upon the use of
the property upon entering into bond, with sufficient surety, payable to the
party interested in the compensation, conditioned for the payment of the
compensation as may be finally adjudged in the case, and in case of appeal by
petitioner, petitioner shall enter into like bond with approved surety.
   (B)   The bonds shall be approved by the judge before whom the proceeding
shall be had, and executed and filed within the time as shall be fixed by the
judge; provided, however, that when the petitioner is the Village of Calumet
Park, no bond shall be required.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.087  PAYMENT FOR DISBURSEMENT TO PARTIES.
   Payment of the final compensation adjudged, including any balance remaining
due because of the insufficiency of any deposit made under §
31.065 above to satisfy in full the amount finally adjudged to be just
compensation, may be made in all cases to the County Treasurer, who shall
receive and disburse the same subject to order of court as provided in §
31.083(A) above, or payment may be made to the party entitled, his or her or
their conservator or guardian.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.088  DISTRIBUTION OF COMPENSATION; CONTRACT FOR DEED.
   (A)   The amount of just compensation shall be distributed among all persons
having an interest in the property according to the fair value of their legal
or equitable interests.
   (B)   If there is a contract for deed to the property, the contract shall be
abrogated and the amount of just compensation distributed by allowing to the
purchaser on the contract for deed:
      (1)   An amount equal to the down payment on the contract;
      (2)   An amount equal to the monthly payments made on the contract, less
interest and an amount equal to the fair rental value of the property for the
period the purchaser has enjoyed the use of the property under the contract;
and
      (3)   An amount equal to amounts expended on improvements to the extent
the expenditures increased the fair market value of the property, and by
allowing to the seller on the contract for deed the amount of just compensation
after allowing for amounts distributed under divisions (B)(1), (2) and (3) of
this section. However, the contract purchaser may pay to the contract seller,
the amount to be paid on the contract, and shall then be entitled to the amount
of just compensation paid by the condemner either through negotiation or
awarded in judicial proceedings.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.089  JUDGMENT ENTERED.
   The court or judge shall cause the verdict of the jury and the judgment of
the court to be entered upon the records of the court.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.090  LANDS OF VILLAGE INSTITUTIONS NOT TAKEN.
   No part of any land heretofore or hereafter conveyed to the village for the
use of any benevolent institutions of the village (or to any such institutions)
shall be entered upon, appropriated or used by any railroad or other company
for railroad or other purposes, without the previous consent of the Village
Board of the village, and no court or other tribunal shall have or entertain
jurisdiction of any proceeding instituted or to be instituted for the purpose
of appropriating any such land for any of the purposes aforesaid, without the
previous consent.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
§ 31.091  SUBJECT MATTER FINDINGS.
   The Village Board of the Village of Calumet Park finds that the subject
matter of this subchapter pertains to the government and affairs of the Village
of Calumet Park and is passed pursuant to the Home Rule Powers of the Village
of Calumet Park pursuant to the provisions of Article VII, § 6(a) of the
Illinois Constitution.
(Ord. 83-405, passed 3-10-1983)
CHAPTER 32:  VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Recreation Board
   
32.02   Community Relations Commission
   
32.03   Department of Public Works
   
32.04   Executive Department of Streets and Alleys
   
32.05   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
32.06   Police and Fire Citizen Review Board
   
32.07   Foreign Fire Insurance Board
   
32.08   Library Board of Trustees
   
32.09   Bicentennial Commission
   
32.10   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.11   Electrical Commission
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01  RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Recreation Board in and for the Village of
Calumet Park.
   (B)   The Recreation Board shall possess all of the powers and be subject to
all the responsibilities of the village authorities in accordance with state
law, from time to time.
   (C)   The Recreation Board shall consist of five members and shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the Village of Calumet Park with the consent of the
Board of Trustees. The Recreation Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   The term of office for each member of the Board shall be five years or
until their successors are appointed and qualified, except that the members
that are first appointed shall be appointed for the terms that the term of one
member shall expire annually thereafter. If a vacancy occurs in the Office of
any Board member, the Mayor shall appoint a successor to serve the unexpired
term.
   (E)   Successor members shall be appointed as provided for original members.
   (F)   The Recreation Board shall have charge of the expenditure of the
playground and recreation fund developed from the special tax for that purpose
or from any other source and warrants on this fund shall be honored only by
order of the Board.
   (G)   The Recreation Board shall have control and jurisdiction of all
recreation facilities within the Village of Calumet Park, including the
recreation center presently located at 12426 Loomis Street and the swimming
pool presently located at 124th and Morgan, both in the Village of Calumet
Park.
   (H)   The Recreation Board may set the charges as it, in its sole
discretion, may determine, for the use of the facilities and may hire and fire
all personnel necessary to operate the facilities and may hire a Recreation
Director, subject to the approval of the Village Board and may set the rates of
pay as it, in its sole discretion, deems advisable.
   (I)   The Recreation Board may accept any grant or devise of real estate or
any gift or bequest of money or other personal property or any donation, the
principal or income of which is to be applied for either temporary or permanent
use for recreation purposes, but if the acceptance thereof for recreational
purposes will subject the municipality to expense for improvements, maintenance
or renewal, the acceptance shall be subject to the approval of the corporate
authorities of the municipality.
   (J)   All monies received by the Recreation Board shall be deposited with
the Municipal Treasurer to the account of the Recreation Board or other
specified authority. The money may be withdrawn and paid out in the same manner
as money appropriated for recreation purposes.
   (K)   The corporate authorities shall appropriate the funds as it, in its
sole discretion, shall deem necessary or desirable for the operation of the
recreation system.
   (L)   All present holders of bonds issued by the Calumet Park Recreation
Association, Inc. or holders of certificates issued by the association shall be
permitted the use of the facilities under the control of the Recreation Board
upon payment of the same fees as required from residents of the Village of
Calumet Park.
   (M)   The Recreation Board shall have the power to maintain, equip and
operate the playground and recreation center and the buildings thereon and for
that purpose may employ recreation leaders, center directors, supervisors,
recreation superintendents or such other officers and employees as they deem
proper, provided, however, that the appointments be first approved by the
Village Board.
(Ord. 74-185, passed 4-4-1974; Ord. 90-539, passed 1-25-1990)
§ 32.02  COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation of Commission. There is hereby created and established a
Commission to be known as "The Community Relations Commission", consisting of
not more than nine members.
   (B)   Appointment and term of office. The members of the Commission shall be
appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees. All
appointments shall be for a one-year term and until an appointee successor has
been duly appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Meetings. The Commission may meet in closed meetings for the purpose
of conciliating complaints of discrimination and the meetings shall not be
subject to the provisions of "An Act in Relation to Meetings" approved July 11,
1957, as amended, and known as "The Open Meetings Act"; provided, however, that
no final action for the imposition or recommendation of penalty shall be taken
except at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Powers, duties and functions.
      (1)   The Commission shall have the power to hear complaints pursuant to
the Fair Housing Code and upon completion of the hearings to take any one or
more of the following actions:
         (a)   Resolve the complaint by conciliation;
         (b)   Dismiss the complaint;
         (c)   Make findings and recommendations to the Board regarding
suspension or revocation of license;
         (d)   Impose a fine as provided for in §
93.99;
         (e)   In the case of any violation of the Fair Housing Code by any
person in the course of performing under a contract or subcontract with the
state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or with the United States
of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, notify by certified mail
the contracting agency for the purpose causing it to terminate the contract or
any portion thereof, either absolutely or on condition of compliance with the
provisions of the Fair Housing Code; and
         (f)   The Commission may also direct the Village Attorney to commence
action in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover the penalty provided
by the Fair Housing Code or seek the equitable relief as the Commission may
deem proper.
      (2)   The Commission shall have the power to adopt, promulgate, amend and
rescind rules and regulations of procedure consistent with the provisions of
this section and with those of the Fair Housing Code.
      (3)   The Commission shall have the power to subpoena witnesses and
pertinent documents, which power may be enforced by the Commission by proper
petition to any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Commission shall have the power to administer oaths and take
sworn testimony.
      (5)   The Commission shall cooperate with the Mayor and Board of Trustees
and other village officials in the following; securing and furnishing of equal
services to all residents; developing by various publicity and training media
improved inter-group relations which in turn develop respect and equal rights
without regard to race, color, sex, religion or ethnic background; encouraging
and fostering fair and equal treatment under the law to all persons;
maintaining equality of opportunity for employment and advancement in the
village government; enlisting the cooperation of racial, religious and ethnic
groups and community organizations, professional and technical organizations,
fraternal and benevolent societies, veterans organizations and other groups in
the Village of Calumet Park in carrying on its work.
   (E)   Investigations and research. The Commission shall receive and
investigate complaints and initiate its own investigations of tensions,
practices of discrimination and acts of prejudice against any person or group
because of race, religion or ethnic origin, and in connection herewith may hold
the public hearings as they deem necessary. Result of the investigations and
recommendations shall be made in report form to the Mayor and Board of Trustees
and other village officials.
   (F)   Organizations. The Commission shall meet and elect a President and
Secretary and such other officers as they deem desirable from their members as
soon as possible after their appointment and confirmation. The Commission shall
hold the meetings as they deem necessary and the meetings may be held in the
Office of the Mayor and Board of Trustees or such other suitable place selected
by the Commission.
   (G)   Professional and clerical assistance. The professional assistance to
the Commission as is necessary shall be furnished by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
   (H)   Compensation. No member of the Commission shall be paid any
compensation whatsoever except for reimbursement for the costs as may be
expended in carrying out the duties of each person.
   (I)   Human Relations Commission renamed.  The Human Relations Commission of
the Village of Calumet Park is hereby renamed the Community Relations
Commission of the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 75-231, passed 3-11-1976; Ord. 76-249, passed 9-9-1976; Ord. 90-540,
passed 1-25-1990)
§ 32.03  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Public Works, an executive
department of the Village of Calumet Park. It shall consist of the
Superintendent of Public Works, who shall be the head of the Department and all
officers and employees assigned thereto. All the officers and employees shall
perform their duties subject to the supervision of the Superintendent.
   (B)   The Department of Public Works shall be in charge of and shall have
supervision of the care, maintenance and construction and repair of all
streets, sidewalks, alleys and public ways, the construction, operation,
maintenance and repairs of all storm sewers, sanitary sewers and all street
gutters and drains and appurtenances thereto and shall have complete charge of
the maintenance, repair, operation and installation of the water distribution
system of the village. The Department shall also have charge of the street
lighting system and shall be responsible for the repair, maintenance and
extension thereof.
   (C)   All physical properties of the village, including water distribution,
parks, playgrounds and all municipal utilities, including the Village Hall and
all municipal utilities not assigned to some other department or office shall
be and are hereby assigned to the Department of Public Works.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall be custodian of all tools,
equipment and other personal property belonging to the village and not assigned
to the care of the village or any other public office.
(Ord. 73-158, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 32.04  EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   There is hereby established an executive department of the Village of
Calumet Park, County of Cook, Illinois, government, which shall be known as the
Department of Streets and Alleys, and shall include a Commissioner of Streets
and Alleys and the assistants and employees as may from time to time be
provided by the President, by and with the advise and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   There is hereby created the Office of the Commissioner of Streets and
Alleys, Commissioner shall be appointed by the President, by and with the
advise and consent of the Board of Trustees, and he or she shall head the
department.
   (C)   (1)   The Commissioner of Streets and Alleys shall have supervision of
the maintenance of the public streets and alleys of the Village of Calumet
Park, Cook County, Illinois, and of the improvement and repairs thereof.
      (2)   He or she shall have supervision of the cleaning of the streets and
alleys and the removal of dirt, garbage, refuse and waste therefrom; and of the
persons employed in the work.
   (D)   The salary or compensation of the Commissioner of Streets and Alleys
shall be fixed by the President, by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 1961-0512, #502, passed 5-12-1961)
§ 32.05  BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the Village of Calumet
Park shall consist of three members.
   (B)   The President of the Village of Calumet Park with the consent of the
Board of Trustees shall appoint all members to the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners, whose terms shall be three years.
(Ord. 07-949, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 32.06  POLICE AND FIRE CITIZEN REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Creation of Board. There is hereby created and established a body to
be known as "The Village of Calumet Park Citizen Review Board", consisting of
not more than five members.
   (B)   Appointment and term of office.
      (1)   The members of the Citizen Review Board shall be appointed by the
Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees, shall not be employees
of the village, and as a body shall be reflective of the ethnic, racial and
gender composition of the village.
      (2)   All appointments shall be for a three-year term and all members
shall continue to serve until their successors have been duly appointed, except
that in 1992 one member shall be appointed for one year, two members shall be
appointed for two years, and two members shall be appointed for three years.
   (C)   Meetings. The Citizen Review Board may meet in closed meetings for the
purpose of conciliating complaints of improper conduct by officers of the
Village Police and Fire Departments and the meetings shall not be subject to
the provisions of "An Act in Relation to Meetings" approved July 11, 1957, as
amended, and known as "The Open Meetings Act"; provided, however, that no final
action of recommendation shall be taken except at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Duties and functions.
      (1)   The Citizen Review Board shall receive and may hear complaints of
improper conduct by village police officers and Fire Department members and
officers, including but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Use of excessive force;
         (b)   Inappropriate language or attitude;
         (c)   Harassment; and
         (d)   Failure to provide adequate or timely service.
      (2)   The Citizen Review Board shall make readily available at all
village offices written complaint forms, which shall provide for the name and
address of the complainant, and to the extent known, the name of the officer(s)
complained of, the time, place and circumstances involved, and an explanation
of the misconduct complained of.
      (3)   The Citizen Review Board shall notify the complainant(s) and the
subject officer(s) of the time, date and location of any meeting or hearing at
which the complaint shall be reviewed or heard. The complainant(s) and the
officer(s) shall be given the opportunity to be heard at the meeting or
hearing.
      (4)   Within ten days of a hearing, or if no hearing is conducted, within
ten days of the next meeting of the Citizen Review Board following receipt of a
complaint, but in no event more than 30 days following receipt of a complaint,
the Citizen Review Board shall forward a report to the Chief of the Department
complained of, and to the Mayor and Board of Trustees, recommending that
charges be brought before the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, the Personnel
Committee of the Board of Trustees or the Police and Fire Commission; or
recommending further investigation; or finding the complaint to be unfounded;
and the reasons therefor. A copy of the Citizen Review Board's report shall
also be forwarded to the complainant(s) and to the officer(s).
   (E)   Organization. The Citizen Review Board shall meet and elect a
president and secretary and the other officers as it deems desirable from its
members as soon as possible after members are appointed and confirmed. The
Citizen Review Board shall hold the meetings as it deems necessary and the
meetings may be held in the office of the Mayor and Board of Trustees or the
other suitable place selected by the Citizen Review Board.
   (F)   Professional and clerical assistance. The professional and clerical
assistance as is necessary for the performance of its duties and functions
shall be furnished to the Citizen Review Board by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
   (G)   Compensation. No member of the Citizen Review Board shall be paid any
compensation whatsoever except for reimbursement for the costs as may be
expended in carrying out the duties of each member.
(Ord. 92-586, passed 9-10-1992)
§ 32.07  FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Foreign Fire Insurance Board of the Fire
Department of the Village of Calumet Park, hereafter referred to as the Fire
Department Board.
   (B)   The Board shall be constituted as follows and shall have the following
powers, duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   Officers.
         (a)   There shall be an election by the regular members of the Calumet
Park Fire Department to elect from among the firefighters of that Department
the following officers:
            1.   President;
            2.   Secretary; and
            3.   Treasurer.
         (b)   These officers shall be regular members of the Calumet Park Fire
Department at the time of their election and throughout their entire term.
However, no probationary member of the Fire Department may hold the office
during the time of his or her probation.
      (2)   Election.
         (a)   The first election for the officers shall take place within 30
days of the passage of this section.
         (b)   The election for the officers thereafter shall take place
annually during the final quarter of each calendar year. Any officer elected
after the passage of this section shall serve up to and including December 31,
2000.
         (c)   The term of each officer for each year thereafter shall be from
January 1 through December 31 of the same calendar year.
      (3)   Duties and powers.
         (a)   President. The President shall preside at all meetings of the
officers. The President shall have such other powers as he or she may be given
from time to time by action of the Calumet Park Village Board of Trustees
consistent with the Illinois Municipal Code.
         (b)   Secretary. The Secretary shall take minutes at any and all
meetings of the officers. The Secretary shall keep the minutes in a manner
identical to the manner in which Village Board minutes are kept. The Secretary
shall also perform any other such duties and functions as are assigned from
time to time by the officers or the Calumet Park Village Board of Trustees
consistent with the Illinois Municipal Code.
         (c)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall:
            1.   Have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds
collected by the village from the Foreign Fire Insurance Company fees as
described in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10;
            2.   Deposit all the monies in the name of the Village of Calumet
Park Fire Department in the banks, savings and loan associations or other
depositories as shall be selected by the Fire Department Board;
            3.   Give a sufficient bond to the Village of Calumet Park as
approved by the Mayor conditioned upon the faithful performance by the
Treasurer of his or her duties under this section consistent with the Illinois
Municipal Code. The bond shall be paid for from the funds collected from the
Foreign Fire Insurance Company fees.
            4.   Pay out money received pursuant to this section upon the order
of the Fire Department Board for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire
Department of the Village of Calumet Park. All expenditures pursuant to this
paragraph must be approved by two of the three officers of the Board.
      (4)   Fire Department Board as a whole.
         (a)   It shall develop and maintain a listing of those items the Board
feels are appropriate expenditures pursuant to the statute.
         (b)   It shall provide to the Calumet Park Village Board an annual
report of the financial affairs of the Fire Department Board showing all income
and expenditures. The report shall be delivered to the Village Mayor and each
Village Trustee. The purpose of the report is to verify that all expenditures
pursuant to this section are for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
Village of Calumet Park Fire Department.
         (c)   All actions taken by the Fire Department Board pursuant to this
section must be approved by at least two of the three officers of the Board.
   (C)   The Village Treasurer shall transfer to the Foreign Fire Insurance
Board all monies received pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-1 which
provides for a tax on foreign fire insurance entities. The monies so
transferred are to be used pursuant to the provisions of this section and
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-2.
(Ord. 00-733, passed 1-27-2000)
§ 32.08  LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, with the approval of the Village Board of Trustees,
appoint a Library Board of Trustees for the Village of Calumet Park Local
Library consisting of seven members who are residents of the Village of Calumet
Park.
   (B)   The first appointed Library Board of Trustees for the Village of
Calumet Park shall consist of, as designated by the Mayor, two Library Trustees
to serve two years, two Library Trustees to serve four  years, and three
Library Trustees to serve six years. Thereafter, Library Trustees shall be
appointed for six year terms and shall serve until their successors are
appointed and qualified.
   (C)   The Mayor may remove any trustee in the manner provided in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-10.
   (D)   Except as provided above, in all other respects, all provisions of the
Illinois Local Library Act that are applicable to cities shall be applicable to
the local Library Board of Trustees for the Village of Calumet Park and shall
supersede any conflicting requirements for villages.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to adopt any provision of
the Illinois Local Library Act applicable to municipalities with a population
of more than 500,000 or more.
(Ord. 18-1200, passed 5-10-2018)
§ 32.09  BICENTENNIAL COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be and hereby is created a Village of Calumet Park
Bicentennial Commission for the purpose of helping the people of Calumet Park
to plan and implement a rewarding and worthwhile commemoration with results
that will last beyond 1976.
   (B)   That Commission shall be composed of an executive committee comprised
of a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Treasurer, Secretary and Chairperson of
sub-committees, which executive committee shall be a working committee and
shall meet as necessary in order to accomplish and effectuate the goals and
purposes of the commission.
   (C)   That Commission shall recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees of
the Village of Calumet Park its recommendations concerning necessary action to
effectuate its purposes and goals.
   (D)   The following sub-committees shall be and are created which shall
include:
      (1)   Finance and Fund Raising Sub-Committee, which sub-committee shall
be headed by a treasurer and be responsible for the budget, audit, bookkeeping,
fund raising plans and events, and securing gifts and grants;
      (2)   Heritage "76" Committee, which shall be responsible for historic
programs, educational programs, the marking of historical sites, routes and
trails, the publication of reprint of local history, special exhibits in
libraries, places of business and government, and projects to remind the
community of America's revolutionary heritage, which committee shall utilize
the expertise of educators, librarians, printers, societies and sons and
daughters of the American Revolution;
      (3)   Communication Sub-Committee, which committee shall be responsible
for publicity and informing the general public, securing speakers and
encouraging bicentennial programs at local organization meetings and which sub-
committees shall utilize the expertise of writers, reporters, public relations
people, artists, printers and photographers;
      (4)   Festival Sub-Committee which shall be responsible for art and
culture programs, fairs and exhibits and hospitality and shall utilize the
expertise of musicians, dancers, art societies, teachers, veterans and other
civic groups; and
      (5)   Horizon "76" Committee which shall be responsible for the community
goals program to examine needs and priorities for community action in the areas
as environment and beautification utilizing human resources and shall utilize
the expertise of conservationists, civic, youth and garden groups,
businesspersons, educators and government officials.
   (E)   Each sub-committee shall be responsible to and report to the executive
committee.
   (F)   No member of the Commission, including the executive committee and any
member of the sub-committees shall enter any contractual obligation, pay bills
or solicit or collect money without the approval and consent of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 76-234, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 32.10  PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment, composition. There is hereby established a planning and
zoning commission, which shall consist of seven members, appointed by the
Village Mayor, subject to confirmation by the Village Board.
   (B)   Membership, term of office.
      (1)   Any appointive member of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
be a qualified elector of the village and shall have been a resident thereof
for at least one year, Each member shall serve until his or her successor is
appointed and is qualified.
      (2)   The members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
appointed for a period of four years. The Village Mayor shall appoint one of
the members as chairperson, subject to confirmation by the Village Board.
      (3)   Appointments to fill a vacancy shall be for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
      (4)   Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall receive such
compensation for their service in the amount of $10 per meeting and as may be
fixed from time to time by the Village Board.
      (5)   Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be removed by the
Village Mayor for non-performance of duty, misconduct in office or other cause
upon written charges having been filed with the Village Board and after a
public hearing has been held before the Village Board regarding thc charges.
Three consecutive absences without good cause shall be grounds for removal. The
grounds for removal shall be served upon the member so charged at least ten
days prior to the hearing, cither personally or by registered mail, or by
leaving the same at his or her usual place of residence. The member shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and answer the charges. A majority vote of all
the corporate authorities then holding office shall be necessary to sustain the
removal. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term.
      (6)   All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be held in
accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act. The chairperson, or in his or
her absence, an acting chairperson, may administer oaths. The Planning and
Zoning Commission may compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. When
hearing appeals, special uses or variance requests under Chapter 158 of this
Code. entitled “Zoning”. All business of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be transacted at the meetings. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating the fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be a public
record. A quorum of all members is required for a meeting. Any  absent member
who certifies that or she has read the transcript of the proceedings before the
Planning and Zoning Commission may vote upon any question before the planning
and zoning commission. The concurring vote of four members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission is necessary to render a decision or make a recommendation.
   (C)   Organization and meetings.
      (1)   The chairperson shall cause the Planning and Zoning Commission to
organize by the election of a secretary and such officers as it deems
necessary. Such officers, as selected by the Planning and Zoning Commission,
shall hold office for a term of one year and may succeed themselves.
      (2)   The secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be a non-
member of the Planning and Zoning Commission and, if so, shall have no vote.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall adopt such bylaws
governing its procedures and regulating its business as it deems proper and
necessary.
   (D)   Powers, duties and functions. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
have the following powers and duties:
      (l)    Planning.
         (a)   Preparing and/or reviewing a comprehensive plan for the present
and future development and redevelopment of the village. The comprehensive plan
may be recommended for adoption in whole or in separate geographical or
functional parts which, when adopted by the Village Board, shall be the
official comprehensive plan of the village or part thereof;
         (b)   Recommending amendments to the comprehensive plan as may be
deemed necessary;
         (c)   Preparing an official plan map of the village and such later
revisions in the official plan map as may be deemed necessary by the Planning
and Zoning Commission or the Village Board; and
         (d)   Planning for specific improvements pursuant to the provisions of
the official plan map. In connection with the foregoing, the Commission shall:
            1.   Review and make recommendations for neighborhood or area
renewal, conservation, redevelopment, urban esthetics and civic design;
            2.   Call upon any officials of the village for aid and advice upon
any matter properly within the scope of interest of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and give aid to the officials of the village and other governmental
agencies charged with the direction of projects for improvements included in
the official plan map, to further the making of such improvements and to
generally promote the realization of the official comprehensive plan. If the
Planning and Zoning Commission deems it advisable to secure technical
assistance or service, it may do so upon authority from and within
appropriations made by the Village Board; and
            3.   Exercise such other powers, duties and functions as may be
specified in this Code; as may, from time to time, be conferred on the Planning
and Zoning Commission by the Village Board; or as may be provided by any
applicable provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code.
      (2)   Zoning.
         (a)   Study the zoning questions of the village and shall prepare a
report and suggested new ordinance for the regulation of the height of
buildings and structures, setback lines or building lines, the intensity of the
use of lot areas, the location of trades and industries and buildings designed
for industrial, business, residential or other uses, and dividing the village
into various use, height and other districts for the purposes of establishing
and enforcing adequate and proper zoning regulations.
         (b)   Recommend the boundaries of districts and appropriate
regulations to be enforced therein and shall set forth what is required of
districts and shall have all the powers and duties contained in state law.
         (c)   After the preparation of a tentative report and ordinance, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing thereon, public
notice of which hearing shall be published in a newspaper not more than 30 nor
less than 15 days prior thereto, and the notice shall state the place copies of
the tentative ordinance are available for examination.
         (d)   Within 30 days after the final adjournment of its hearings, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a report and submit a proposed
ordinance to the Village Board, which thereupon, may enact the proposed
ordinance with or without change, or may refer it back to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for further study.
         (e)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall exercise and perform
any power, duty or function as may be specified in Chapter 158 of this Code,
entitled “Zoning”.
(Ord.17-1184A, passed 11-9-2017)
§ 32.11  ELECTRICAL COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission established; members.
      (1)   There is hereby established an Electrical Commission which shall
consist of six members as follows: The Superintendent of Electricity or the
Chief Electrical Inspector of the municipality shall be a member and ex-officio
Chairperson of the commission; of the other five members, one shall be a
registered professional engineer, one an electrical contractor, one a
journeyman electrician, one a representative of an inspection bureau maintained
by the fire underwriters, if the representative resides in the municipality,
and if no such representative resides in the municipality then the Chief of the
Fire Department, and one representative of an electricity supply company.
      (2)   If there is no person residing in the municipality who is qualified
under any one of these descriptions, the Mayor or President of the municipality
may appoint some other person to fill that position.
      (3)   All members of the Electrical Commission shall be appointed by the
Mayor or president of the municipality with the advice and consent of the
corporate authorities.
   (B)   Functions.
      (1)   The Electrical Commission shall recommend:
         (a)   The safe and practical standards and specifications for the
installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment designed to meet the
necessities and conditions of the particular locality;
         (b)   Reasonable rules and regulations governing the issuance of
permits by the Electrical Inspection Department; and
         (c)   Reasonable fees to be paid for the inspection by the Inspection
Department of all electrical equipment installed or altered within the
municipality.
      (2)   The standards, specifications, rules, regulations and fees so
recommended shall not become effective until adopted by ordinance by the
corporate authorities of the municipality. All fees so adopted shall be paid
into the municipal treasury.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   No electrical equipment shall be installed or altered within the
Village of Calumet Park except upon a permit first issued by the Electrical
Inspection Department.
      (2)   The Electrical Inspection Department shall issue permits for the
installation and alteration of electrical equipment in all cases where
application is made in accordance with the rules and regulations applicable
thereto and shall inspect all electrical equipment installed or altered in the
Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 71-132, passed 5-27-1971)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 33:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Tenure for appointed officials
   
33.02   Requiring all village employees to be residents
   
33.03   Commencement date of office for officers
   
33.04   Solicitation; gifts; Gift Ban Act
   
33.05   Issuance of citations
   
33.06   Prohibiting employees from outside employment
Specific Employees
   
33.20   Village Services Director
   
33.21   Superintendent of Public Works
   
33.22   Prosecuting Attorney
   
33.23   Building Commissioner, Building Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer
designated conservators of the peace
   
33.24   Health Officer designated conservator of the peace
   
33.25   Field Superintendent
   
33.26   Village Prosecutor
   
33.27   Building Inspector
   
33.28   Treasurer's responsibility; library funds
   
33.29   Assistant Chief of Police
   
33.30   Office of Special Assessment Collector
   
33.31   Village Collector
Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace
   
33.45   Definitions
   
33.46   Prohibited activities
   
33.47   Written agreement
   
33.48   Notice
   
33.49   Disciplinary action
   
33.50   Testing
Employee Manual
   
33.60   Employee Manual adopted by reference
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  TENURE FOR APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the term of office of all officials of the
Village of Calumet Park required to be appointed by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees under the statutes of the State of Illinois or
the ordinance of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (B)   On and after the effective date of this section, the term of office of
all officials appointed within the scope of this section shall expire at the
end of the current fiscal year or until his or her successor has been duly
appointed and qualified for the office.
   (C)   On the effective date of this section, the term of office of all
officials previously appointed by the Mayor, without the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees where the advice and consent is required by statute or
ordinance, shall terminate.
(Ord. 68-68, passed 7-12-1968)
§ 33.02  REQUIRING ALL VILLAGE EMPLOYEES TO BE RESIDENTS.
   (A)   All employees of the Village of Calumet Park shall be residents of the
Village of Calumet Park at the time of their appointment.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed or confirmed as an employee of the
Village of Calumet Park unless he or she has been a resident of the village for
at least three months continuously prior to the time of the appointment.
   (C)   The provision of this section shall not apply to any or full
professional personnel or to persons hired on a contract basis time police
personnel.
   (D)   The provisions of this section may be waived by action of the Board of
Trustees with respect to an individual employee.
   (E)   Any employee presently employed by the Village of Calumet Park who is
not presently residing within the village shall make arrangements to be a
resident of the Village of Calumet Park on or before March 1, 1977.
(Ord. 76-248, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 33.03  COMMENCEMENT DATE OF OFFICE FOR OFFICERS.
   (A)   The term of office of newly elected municipal officers for the Village
of Calumet Park shall commence on the first day in the month of May following
the election of the officers.
   (B)   The newly elected municipal officers of the Village of Calumet Park
shall be inaugurated no later than the first regular or special meeting of the
Corporate Authorities of the village held in the month of May following the
election of the officers.
(Ord. 81-344, passed 4-9-1981)
§ 33.04  SOLICITATION; GIFTS; GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.) is
hereby adopted pursuant to state law.
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the village.
   (C)   To the extent authorized by law, the Mayor is appointed to serve as
the "Ethics Officer" of the Village of Calumet Park. The Ethics Officer's
duties shall be as provided in state law.
   (D)   Commission; complaints:
      (1)   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by the
Act, the Mayor shall appoint no fewer than three, and no more than five persons
to a Local Ethics Commission with the advice and consent of the Village of
Trustees;
      (2)   The Local Ethics Commission shall have the power and duties set
forth in state law;
      (3)   To the extent that any of its provisions may be applicable, state
law shall be applicable to the Local Ethics Commission; and
      (4)   The complaint procedure and the enforcement and penalty provisions
of the Act and this section shall be as state law.
   (E)   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act. Any amendment to the State
Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430 §§ 10-10 et seq.)  that becomes effective
after the passage of this section shall be incorporated into this section by
reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation and acceptance of gifts.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (F)   Future declaration of unconstitutionatjty of State Gift Ban Act.
      (1)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this
section shall be repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court's decision
becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or rehearings. The
ordinance shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate
authorities of the Village of Calumet Park if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
      (2)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Gift Ban Act
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 et seq.) unconstitutional but upholds the
constitutionality of the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder
of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by this section shall
remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this section relating to
the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without
further action by the corporate authorities of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (G)   In addition:
      (1)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 5-15 and Article 10
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and
Employees Ethics Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq., (hereinafter
referred to as the"Act" in this section) are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent
required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5;
      (2)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited;
      (3)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited;
      (4)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act,
by any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited;
      (5)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall
be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c);
      (6)   For penalties for violations of this Section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act;
      (7)   This section does not appeal or otherwise amend or modify any
existing ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers
and employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are
less restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section
shall prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5
(a);
      (8)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section be reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village;
      (9)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in
its entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the
Illinois Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further
appeals or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further
action by the Corporate Authorities of the village if the Act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois Supreme Court; and
      (10)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Ord. 99-725, passed 6-10-1999; Ord. 04-849, passed 5-13-2004)
§ 33.05  ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   The Building Commissioner, the Alley Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector and
the Superintendent of Public Works are hereby granted authority to issue
citations within the limits of the Village of Calumet Park to any person or
persons who they reasonably believe has violated any of the ordinances of the
Village of Calumet Park relating to buildings, zoning, Building Codes, Plumbing
Codes and any other ordinance of the village now in force or hereafter adopted
relating to their respective duties as Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector,
Alley Inspector or Superintendent of Public Works.
(Ord. 00-741, passed 8-10-2000)
§ 33.06  PROHIBITING EMPLOYEES FROM OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The statement set forth in the preambles to this section are found to
be true and correct and are incorporated by reference into this section as if
set forth in full.
   (B)   A village employee shall not perform any work for any monetary or
other consideration, whatsoever, directly or indirectly:
      (1)   At any location within the village;
      (2)   For any village resident;
      (3)   For any village property owner;
      (4)   For any owner of any business located within the village;
      (5)   For any business located within the village; and/or
      (6)   For any person or entity which holds a license issued by the
village.
   (C)   A village employee shall not provide any service, good and/or material
for any monetary or other consideration, whatsoever, directly or indirectly, to
and/or for:
      (1)   Any location within the village;
      (2)   Any village resident;
      (3)   Any village property owner;
      (4)   Any owner of any business located within the village;
      (5)   Any business located within the village; and/or
      (6)   Any person or entity which holds a license issued by the village.
   (D)   A village employee shall not have a direct or indirect ownership
interest in any business, association, joint venture, corporation, partnership,
organization and/or other entity which performs any work for any monetary or
other consideration, whatsoever, directly or indirectly:
      (1)   At any location within the village;
      (2)   For any village resident;
      (3)   For any village property owner;
      (4)   For any owner of any business located within the village;
      (5)   For any business located within the village; and/or
      (6)   For any person or entity which holds a license issued by the
village.
   (E)   A village employee shall not have a direct or indirect ownership
interest in any business, association, joint venture, corporation, partnership,
organization and/or other entity which provides any service, good and/or
material for any monetary or other consideration, whatsoever, directly or
indirectly, to and/or for:
      (1)   Any location within the village;
      (2)   Any village resident;
      (3)   Any village property owner;
      (4)   Any owner of any business located within the village;
      (5)   Any business located within the village; and/or
      (6)   Any person or entity which holds a license issued by the village.
   (F)   (1)   For purposes of this section, a village employee shall be
considered to have a direct or indirect ownership interest in a business,
association, joint venture, corporation, partnership, organization and/or other
entity if the employee, the employee's spouse, and/or any of the employee's
children who reside in the employee's household own more than 5% of the
business, association, joint venture, corporation, partnership, organization
and/or other entity.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B), a village employee
shall not be considered to have a direct or indirect ownership interest in a
business, association, joint venture, corporation, partnership, organization
and/or other entity if the employee, the employee's spouse, and/or any of the
employee's children who reside in the employee's household hold such an
interest through a mutual or similar fund; and/or in an entity which is
publicly traded on a nationally recognized securities market.
   (G)   This section shall apply to all full-time and part-time village
employees. It shall not apply to the following circumstances:
      (1)   Any work performed and/or service, good and/or material provided by
a village employee in the ordinary and customary course and within the ordinary
and customary scope of his or her employment by the village; or
      (2)   Any security functions performed by a village police officer:
         (a)   At a commercial business which is required by village ordinance
to have a village police officer or the equivalent on the premises; and
         (b)   When those security functions are performed by the village
police while he or she in not on duty with the village's Police Department.
   (H)   An elected village official shall not be considered to be a village
employee for purposes of this section.
   (I)   The village's Mayor shall take all action necessary to terminate any
village employee who violates any provision of this section, including, without
limitation, provision of any notices and/or reports required by law or contract
for termination and/or the commencement and prosecution of any proceedings
required by law or contract for the termination; provided that this section
shall not be construed:
      (1)   To provide any village employee with any rights or powers other
than those rights or powers provided to the employee by other applicable legal
requirements promulgated by the village or contracts to which the village is a
party; and
      (2)   To create any new rights or powers for any village employee.
   (J)   In the event of a conflict between any provision of this section and
any provision of any collective bargaining agreement or other contract to which
the village is a party, the provision of the collective bargaining agreement or
other contract shall control solely to the extent of the conflict. In the event
of a conflict between any provision of this section and any provision of any
other village ordinance, resolution, motion, rule, custom, policy or other
legal requirement promulgated by the village (except any provision of a
collective bargaining agreement or contract to which the village is a party),
the provision of this section shall control solely to the extent of the
conflict.
   (K)   If any provision of this section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that provision of this section shall be stricken from
this section and the remainder of this section shall continue in full force and
effect to the extent possible. The title to this section is provided for
convenience only and shall not be used in construing the provisions of this
section. This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval and adoption and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 06-905, passed 2-23-2006)
SPECIFIC EMPLOYEES
§ 33.20  VILLAGE SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment of official position. There is hereby established the
appointed office of "Village Services Director" for the Village of Calumet
Park.
   (B)   Appointment. The Village Services Director shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Term. The term of the Village Services Director shall be as announced
by the Mayor at the time of appointment and shall not exceed four years or the
remaining portion of the Mayor's term of office, whichever is shorter.
   (D)   Qualifications, oath and removal. The Village Services Director shall
possess the qualifications required of other officers of the village; shall
take oath or affirmation of office as required by law; and shall be subject to
removal from office by the Mayor in the same manner as other appointive
officers of the village. No elected official of the village shall be eligible
to serve as Village Services Director.
   (E)   Compensation. The Village Services Director shall receive the
compensation as prescribed and approved at the time of appointment and/or as
recited, from time to time, in the annual appropriation ordinance of the
village.
   (F)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Village Services Director shall perform services on behalf of
the village, as directed and assigned by the Mayor and Board of Trustees,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Direction and coordination of village services to residents and
businesses;
         (b)   Coordination of village departments, boards and commissions
towards the goal of achieving efficient operation of the village government;
         (c)   Liaison assistance between village departments, boards,
commissions, employees and officials, for the purpose of providing coordinated
services to the public and citizenry of Calumet Park;
         (d)   Responses to public requests and inquiries concerning village
operations and services;
         (e)   Coordination and supervision of compliance notices and
complaints pertaining to alleged violations of village health, building and
zoning codes and ordinances, to assure vigorous prosecution thereof and the
presentation of relevant testimony and documentation;
         (f)   Implementation and recommendation of village personnel policies
and practices;
         (g)   Assistance in providing information to residents and
businesspersons in the village in cooperation with the Community Relations
Commission and other departments, as to village activities and programs;
         (h)   Attendance as official representative of the village and Village
Board, at meetings concerning all municipal functions with other governmental
bodies and agencies, civic, neighborhood, business, religious, charitable,
homeowners, apartment dwellers and condominium members, organizations and
associations; and
         (i)   Attendance at regular, special, and committee meetings of the
Mayor and Board of Trustees for the purpose of receiving directions therefrom
and public participation thereof.
      (2)   Not less than once each fiscal year, and at any other times as
requested by the Mayor or Board of Trustees, the Village Services Director
shall provide a written report of the Director's services, activities, programs
and duties, together with recommendations, and the proposals received from
others, as to additional and further Village Services Director activities,
plans, duties, responsibilities and studies.
      (3)   The Village Services Director shall have no power to incur
liability or in any way transact business for or in the name of the village.
   (G)   Responsibility. Any person appointed as Village Services Director
shall have overall responsibility for the village budget. Some specific duties
shall be to chair the Finance Committee meetings; to conduct union
negotiations, along with any other members of the negotiating team appointed by
the Mayor; to monitor all routine expenditures and expenditures for capital
improvements; to undertake any additional duties relating to the budget and
finances of the Village of Calumet Park as may be requested by the Mayor from
time to time.
(Ord. 04-841, passed 1-22-2004; Ord. 04-846, passed 4-8-2004)
§ 33.21  SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Superintendent of Public Works,
who shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall be in charge of the Public
Works Department and shall have charge of and custody of all physical
properties of the village, other than records, not assigned to some other
office or employee and subject to the supervision of the Village Engineer, he
or she shall have charge of the operation, maintenance and repair of the water
distribution system, the sewer system and such other duties as are evolved upon
him or her by the Public Works Department.
   (C)   The duties of the Superintendent of Public Works shall be as set forth
in this section and as may be amended from time to time by the Mayor and the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (D)   The salary or compensation of the Superintendent of Public Works shall
be fixed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 73-159, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 33.22  PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Prosecuting Attorney.
   (B)   The Prosecuting Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Village Council.
   (C)   The Prosecuting Attorney's duties among others, shall be to prosecute
all cases in the traffic and criminal courts on behalf of the village and such
other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Trustees or the
Village Attorney.
   (D)   The salary of the prosecuting attorney shall be as determined by the
Village Board from time to time and if no such salary is set forth, then the
salary shall be reasonable and fair.
(Ord. 72-152, passed 9-28-1972)
§ 33.23  BUILDING COMMISSIONER, BUILDING INSPECTOR AND CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
DESIGNATED CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner and Building Inspector of the Village of
Calumet Park be and the same are hereby designated as conservators of the peace
and are hereby empowered to issue citations within the limits of the Village of
Calumet Park to any person or persons who the Building Commissioner or the
Building Inspector reasonably feel has violated any of the laws of the State of
Illinois, or ordinances of the municipality relative to buildings, zoning,
Building Codes, Zone Code and all other; ordinances of the municipality now in
force or hereafter adopted relative to their duties as Building Commissioner
and Building Inspector; and to exercise all other powers as conservators of the
peace that the corporate authority of the Village of Calumet Park may prescribe
by ordinance.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer of the Village of Calumet Park is hereby
designated as a conservator of the peace and is hereby empowered to issue
citations within the limits of the Village of Calumet Park to any person or
persons whom the Code Enforcement Officer reasonably feels has violated any of
the laws of the State of Illinois or ordinances of the municipality relative to
the unsanitary condition of alleys and other public ways, the weed, garbage and
refuse ordinance of the municipality, and all other ordinances of the
municipality now in force or hereafter adopted relative to his or her duties as
Code Enforcement Officer and to exercise all other powers as conservator of the
peace that the corporate authority of the Village of Calumet Park may prescribe
by ordinance.
(Ord. 79-307, passed 8-23-1979)
§ 33.24  HEALTH OFFICER DESIGNATED CONSERVATOR OF THE PEACE.
   The Health Officer of the Village of Calumet Park is hereby designated as
conservator of the peace, and is hereby empowered:
   (A)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who are found violating any municipal ordinance or criminal law of the
State of Illinois;
   (B)   To commit the arrested person for examination;
   (C)   If necessary, to detain the arrested person in custody overnight, or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper court;
   (D)   To issue citations within the limits of the Village of Calumet Park to
any person or persons who the Health Officer reasonably feels has violated any
of the ordinances of the municipality, or laws of the State of Illinois; and
   (E)   To exercise all other powers as conservator of the peace that the
corporate authority of the Village of Calumet Park may prescribe by ordinance.
(Ord. 82-399, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 33.25  FIELD SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Field Superintendent, the Field
Superintendent to be appointed by the President of the Board of Trustees by and
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Field Superintendent shall be responsible for and in charge of all
operations of the Water Department and the Departments of Garbage, Streets and
Alleys and shall be responsible to the President and Board of Trustees for the
operation of these departments.
   (C)   The Field Superintendent shall receive a salary or compensation at the
rate of $350 per month, 50% to be charged to the Water Department and 50% to
the Departments of Garbage, Streets and Alleys.
(Ord. 69-105, passed 7-23-1969)
§ 33.26  VILLAGE PROSECUTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Village Prosecutor, an executive
office of the village. The Prosecutor shall be appointed by the President by
and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village Prosecutor shall be a licensed attorney at law of the
State of Illinois and shall attend the sessions of the Circuit Court and
prosecute all offenses for violation of village ordinances and traffic laws of
the State of Illinois not otherwise required by law or rule of court to be
prosecuted by the state's attorney.
   (C)   The Village Prosecutor, whenever requested to so do by a village
official, shall render legal advice on questions concerning the commencement
and prosecution on such offenses as he or she is hereinabove required to
prosecute, and shall further keep a docket of all cases prosecuted by him or
her in manner and form as may be prescribed by the President and the Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   The Village Prosecutor shall receive as compensation for his or her
services an annual retainer such as may be prescribed from time to time by the
President and Board of Trustees, or as may be set forth in the Annual
Appropriation Ordinance, such retainer to be payable in equal monthly
installments.
(Ord. 1964-0522, passed 5-22-1964)
§ 33.27  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment. There is hereby created the Office of Building Inspector,
who shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see to the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to buildings or zoning and to
inspect all buildings or structures being erected or altered, as frequently as
may be necessary to insure compliance with the village ordinances.
   (C)   Records. The Building Inspector shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered and of notices or orders issued. He or she shall retain on
file copies of required plans and documents relating to building work.
   (D)   Right of entry. The Building Inspector, in the discharge of his or her
duties and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
   (E)   Authority to issue stop orders. The Building Inspector shall have the
power to order all work stopped on construction or alteration or repair of
buildings in the village when the work is being done in violation of any
provision of any ordinance relating thereto. Work shall not be resumed after
the issuance of such an order except on the written permission of the inspector
or by order of the Board of Trustees; provided, that if the stop order is an
oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within an hour. The
written stop order may be served by any police officer.
   (F)   Salary or compensation. The Building Inspector shall be paid at a rate
to be determined by the Board of Trustees from time to time, those monies to be
paid solely out of fees received for building permits and building inspections.
(Ord. 1961-0127, passed 1-27-1961)
§ 33.28  TREASURER'S RESPONSIBILITY; LIBRARY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Treasurer of the Village of Calumet Park shall transfer all
unexpended funds currently collected on behalf of the Calumet Park Public
Library in accordance with the ordinances of the Village of Calumet Park and
the laws of the State of Illinois to the Custodian of Library Fund.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall be hereinafter responsible for the
collection of any assessment lawfully made on behalf of the Calumet Park Public
Library pursuant to all applicable laws of the State of Illinois. All monies
collected shall be periodically transferred to the designated Custodian of
Library Funds. Transfers of these funds shall be made periodically but not more
often than twice monthly.
   (C)   In accordance with the requirements of ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-10, 30
days after the expiration of each fiscal year of the Village of Calumet Park,
the Library Trustees shall make a report of the condition of their trust on the
last of the fiscal year to the Village of Calumet Park Board of Trustees in
writing and verified under oath and shall contain:
      (1)   An itemized statement of the various sums of money received from
the Library Fund and other sources;
      (2)   An itemized statement of the objects and purposes for which the
sums of money have been expended;
      (3)   The statement of the number of books and periodicals available for
use in the number and character thereof circulated;
      (4)   Statement of the real and personal property acquired by legacy,
purchase, gift or otherwise;
      (5)   A statement of the character of any extensions of library service
which have been undertaken;
      (6)   A statement of the financial requirements of the library for the
ensuing fiscal year for inclusion in the appropriation of the Village of
Calumet Park and of the amount of money which in the judgment of Board of
Library Trustees will be necessary to levy for library purposes in the next
annual tax levy ordinance;
      (7)   A statement as to the amount of accumulations and the reasons
therefore;
      (8)   A statement as to any outstanding liabilities including those for
bonds still outstanding or amounts due for judgment settlements, liability
insurance or other amounts due under a certificate of the Board; and
      (9)   Any other statistics, information and suggestions that may be of
interest.
(Ord. 96-682, passed 6-13-1996)
§ 33.29  ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Assistant to the Chief of Police may be responsible for payroll,
maintenance of police records, scheduling and assignments and any and all other
assignments given by the Chief of Police. The Administrative Assistant to the
Chief of Police may report to the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Assistant Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor and
under the terms as the Mayor and Board of Trustees determine and are permitted
by law.
(Ord. 93-604, passed 6-24-1993; Ord. 03-836, passed 12-11-2003; Ord. 10-17,
passed 9-9-2010)
§ 33.30  OFFICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT COLLECTOR.
   (A)   For the purpose of expediting the collection of special assessments of
the Village of Calumet Park, heretofore levied and hereafter to be levied,
there is hereby created the Office of Special Assessment Collector.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Collector to handle all matters pertaining
to the collection of Village of Calumet Park special assessments, including
keeping records thereof, billing the installments of assessment warrants as
they become due and payable, preparing list of delinquent installments for
return to the County Collector of Cook County as such installments become
delinquent, receiving, for cancellation, any certificates of sale and
assignment submitted to him or her by property owners or others interested and
the issuance of certificates of cancellation therefor. The Collector shall also
make monthly reports to the President and the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Special Assessment Collector shall receive as compensation a sum
equal to 2% of the gross amount of special assessment collections as made. All
expenses of the office of Collector shall be paid by the village from the
corporate funds.
   (D)   A surety bond shall be given by the Special Assessment Collector in
favor of the Village of Calumet Park, Illinois in a penal sum equal to one and
one-half times the amount of funds which the President and the Board of
Trustees shall establish annually to be handled by the Special Assessment
Collector.
(Ord. 1960-0510, passed 6-10-1960)
§ 33.31  VILLAGE COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment of official position. There is hereby established the
Office of Village Collector who shall be appointed by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. The Village Clerk may be appointed Village Collector by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Bond. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the
Collector shall furnish a bond no less than $20,000.
   (C)   Duties. The Village Collector shall collect and receive all fees for
permits or licenses paid to the village and shall send out and collect bills
for water from the municipal water distribution system.
   (D)   Deposit of receipts. The Village Collector shall deposit in a bank
designated by the Board of Trustees or with the Village Treasurer, all money
received on behalf of the village promptly upon receipt of the same, and shall
record all the receipts.
   (E)   Special assessments. The Collector shall have charge of the collection
of special assessments as is provided by statute.
(Ord. 05-874, passed 3-10-2005)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE
§ 33.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Includes any alcoholic beverage, including, but not limited to
beer, wine, whiskey, vodka, gin, scotch, or any other substance containing
ethyl alcohol, in any form, which is designed by a manufacturer for human
consumption. Further, for purposes of this subchapter, ALCOHOL shall be deemed
to include any other form of alcohol, including, but not limited to methyl
alcohol, butyl alcohol, or any other chemical derivative thereof which contains
alcohol, whether or not designed for human consumption.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any substance which is not legally obtainable, or
which is legally obtainable, but is being used in a manner different than
prescribed by a physician, licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Illinois, or any substance that is legally obtainable, but has not been legally
obtained. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE shall also mean any substance, the use,
possession, or distribution of which are unlawful under the Controlled
Substance's Act, which include illegal drugs, as well as the illegal use of
prescription drugs.
(Ord. 95-647, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 33.46  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   All employees of the Village of Calumet Park during the hours of their
employment, whether or not on property owned by the Village of Calumet Park,
Cook County, Illinois, shall be prohibited from:
   (A)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or
use, or being under the influence of a controlled substance or alcohol.
   (B)   The distribution, consumption, possession, or being under the
influence of alcohol.
(Ord. 95-647, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 33.47  WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
   Each employee, agent or officer of the Village of Calumet Park shall, as a
condition of his or her employment or office, agree in writing to abide by the
terms of the Village of Calumet Park's policy with respect to maintaining a
drug and alcohol free work place.
(Ord. 95-647, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 33.48  NOTICE.
   A copy of Ordinance 95-647 shall be provided to each employee of the Village
of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois, including all elected and appointed
officials and, further, Ordinance 95-647 shall be posted in such place where it
can be observed by the employees on a regular basis.
(Ord. 95-647, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 33.49  DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   If any employee violates this policy, such employee may be disciplined up to
and including immediate termination of employment, or requirement of
participation in a Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Treatment Program.
(Ord. 95-647, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 33.50  TESTING.
   In order to insure a safe and healthful working environment, job applicants
and employees may be asked to provide body substance samples, such as urine or
blood, to determine the presence of illicit or illegal use of drugs, or the use
of alcohol. The refusal to submit to such a test may result in disciplinary
action up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 95-647, passed 1-26-1995)
EMPLOYEE MANUAL
§ 33.60  EMPLOYEE MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Village of Calumet Park’s Employee Manual is hereby adopted and approved
as the Village of Calumet Park’s Handbook. The Employee Manual shall be the
operative standard and resource manual for all village employees.
(Ord. 05-875, passed 3-10-2005)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 34:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Lateral transfers of police officers from other agencies
   
34.02   Enforcement of Illinois Vehicle Code
   
34.03   Number and rank of police officers
Reorganization, Establishment and Administration of Police Department
   
34.15   Created and established
   
34.16   Personnel
   
34.17   Chief of Police
   
34.18   Rules and regulations
   
34.19   Members; appointment
   
34.20   Ranks
   
34.21   Duties; enforcement
   
34.22   Power to arrest
   
34.23   Cooperation with other agencies
   
34.24   Absence and inability
   
34.25   Temporary appointments
   
34.26   Salaries
Part-Time Police Officers
   
34.40   Employment
   
34.41   Duties
   
34.42   Hiring standards
   
34.43   Background checks
   
34.44   Discipline
   
34.45   Training
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  LATERAL TRANSFERS OF POLICE OFFICERS FROM OTHER AGENCIES.
   (A)   Calumet Park Police Department may accept lateral transfers without
the necessity of participating in the competitive hiring process as long as the
lateral transfer meets the requirements outlined in the collective bargaining
agreement between the Village of Calumet Park and the Labor Council and the
hiree is a certified police officer in the State of Illinois or has
documentation that he or she has fulfilled the requirements of their respective
training boards and be eligible to receive certification through the Illinois
Training Board.
   (B)   Any person hired as a lateral transfer from another law enforcement
agency shall be subject to the provisions of the current collective bargaining
agreement between the Village of Calumet Park and the Labor Council.
(Ord. 05-883, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 34.02  ENFORCEMENT OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   The Calumet Park Police Department is hereby authorized and empowered
to enforce the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code and the provisions of
the traffic ordinances of the Village of Calumet Park on all private streets or
roads within the boundaries of the Century Trailer Court.
   (B)   The Calumet Park Police Department is hereby authorized and empowered
to adopt regulations and employ traffic control devices relating to the
enforcement of the regulations on any street, road or public highway within the
village limits and within the boundaries of the Century Trailer Court
consistent with the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The regulations
and traffic control devices shall be in conformity with the provisions of the
Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (C)   The Calumet Park Police Department may require that any person who
files a request for the installation of traffic signs pay for the cost of the
traffic signs prior to their initial installation or replacement by the Village
of Calumet Park. No such traffic signs shall be installed by any private party
but only by the Village of Calumet Park or its duly authorized agent.
   (D)   All private streets or roads within the boundaries of the Century
Trailer Court are highways for the purposes of enforcing the provisions of the
Illinois Vehicle Code and the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the
Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 88-500, passed 7-14-1988)
§ 34.03  NUMBER AND RANK OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Village of Calumet Park shall be comprised of the following rank
of police officers: Chief of Police; sergeants; and patrol officers.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The number of sergeants shall not exceed four and the duties of
sergeants shall be supervisory.
   (D)   The number of patrol officers shall not exceed ten.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval and publication according to law.
(Ord. 75-214, passed 6-12-1975)
REORGANIZATION, ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.15  CREATED AND ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created and established a Police Department, an executive
department of the Village of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois, which shall
be known as the "Calumet Park Police Department".
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.16  PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The personnel of the Police Department shall consist of a Chief of
Police, one sergeant, six patrol officers.
   (B)   All members of the Police Department shall be full-time regular
officers.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968; Ord. 69-106, passed 8-20-1969; Ord. 69-97,
passed 7-16-1969)
§ 34.17  CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and Deputy Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor,
by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The consent of the Board of Trustees for the appointments of Chief of
Police and Deputy Chief is hereby declared to be mandatory, and no Chief of
Police and Deputy Chief shall take office without the majority consent of all
members of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The full time member who may be appointed Deputy Chief and receives
the appointment, shall be placed on furlough from his or her permanent rank
with the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners.
   (D)   They shall be the keepers of the village jail and shall have the
custody of all persons incarcerated therein.
   (E)   They shall have the power and duties and shall keep the records and
make the reports as are set forth by rules adopted by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park and as may be otherwise set forth by
statute.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the performance by the
Police Department of all its functions and all members of the Department shall
serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968; Ord. 69-106, passed 8-20-1969)
§ 34.18  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Rules and regulations for the operation of the Police Department shall
be passed by the Board of Trustees and approved by the Mayor of the village.
   (B)   Each police officer shall be furnished with a copy of the rules and
regulations, and a copy shall be filed with the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners.
   (C)   Each police officer shall also be furnished with a copy of the rules
and regulations adopted by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, and a
copy of the rules and regulations shall be on file with the Chief of Police and
the Clerk of the village as and when adopted by the Board.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.19  MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All members of the Police Department, except as otherwise herein
provided, shall be appointed and promoted by the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners in accordance with the provisions of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners Act of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   Any resident of the State of Illinois shall be eligible to take an
examination for the office of police officer, but shall live within a ten-mile
radius of the Village of Calumet Park within one year of the time of his or her
appointment as the police officer.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.20  RANKS.
   The following specialized ranks may be appointed by the Chief of Police for
the full time patrol officer: a juvenile officer, detectives, one evidence
technician, and one breath-o-lyzer technician. These appointees shall serve at
the discretion of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.21  DUTIES; ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to enforce all
laws of the State of Illinois and ordinances of the Village of Calumet Park,
and to perform all duties imposed upon them by the laws and ordinances as well
as the rules and regulations of the Police Department and the rules and
regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the Village of
Calumet Park.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.22  POWER TO ARREST.
   The members of the Police Department shall have the power to arrest any
person or persons in the village found in the act of violating any law or
village ordinance, or aiding, conspiring or abetting in any such violation, and
shall arrest any person found under circumstances which would warrant a
reasonable person in believing that such person had committed a misdemeanor or
crime.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.23  COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and all members of the Police
Department to cooperate with all law enforcing agencies including federal,
state and local agencies.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.24  ABSENCE AND INABILITY.
   In the event of the absence of the Chief of Police or in the case of his or
her inability to act, or in the event that the Office of Chief of Police
becomes vacated, the officer next in rank or in seniority of the same rank,
shall assume the powers, duties and responsibilities of the Chief of Police
until such time as the President by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees appoints a new Chief of Police.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.25  TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   In order to prevent a stoppage of public business, to meet
extraordinary exigencies, or to prevent material impairment of the Police
Department, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners may make temporary
appointments to the Police Department, but never to exceed 60 days.
   (B)   No temporary appointment of any one person shall be made more than
twice in any calendar year.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
§ 34.26  SALARIES.
   The salaries of all police officers shall be determined by ordinance of the
Mayor and Board of Trustees, passed from time to time.
(Ord. 69-88, passed 12-28-1968)
PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS
§ 34.40  EMPLOYMENT.
   Village of Calumet Park may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as they deem necessary.
(Ord. 13-1082, passed 8-8-2013)
§ 34.41  DUTIES.
   A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a full-
time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the General
Orders of the Calumet Park Police Department, or as designated by the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, but the number of hours a part-time officer may
work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time police officers shall not
be assigned to supervise of direct full-time police officers. Part-time police
shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch.
50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB and the
Calumet Park Police Department.
(Ord. 13-1082, passed 8-8-2013)
§ 34.42  HIRING STANDARDS.
   Any person employed as a part-time police officer must meet the following
standards:
   (A)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health and
physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
   (B)   Be at least 21 years of age.
   (C)   Pass a medical examination.
   (D)   Possess a high school diploma of GED certificate.
   (E)   Possess a valid State of Illinois Driver's License.
   (F)   Possess no prior felony convictions, or any violations (whether
conviction or other dispositions where a finding of guilty was made) of other
crimes involving moral turpitude as determined solely the village (see ILCS Ch.
50, Act 705, § 6.1 and ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-6 for list of disqualifying
misdemeanor offenses).
   (G)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (H)   Meet all requirements required of any full-time officer.
   (I)   Meet all standards set forth in ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 01 et seq.,
pertaining to the Firearms Owners Identification Act.
(Ord. 13-1082, passed 8-8-2013)
§ 34.43  BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   Prior to appointment, part-time police officers shall be subject to a
background check, including without limitation, fingerprint verification by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Illinois State Police. No person shall
be hired as a part-time police officer unless he or she is a person of good
character and is not a person who has been convicted of a felony or crime
involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 13-1082, passed 8-8-2013)
§ 34.44  DISCIPLINE.
   Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Chief
of Police, or his or her designee. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules, regulations
and General Orders issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 13-1082, passed 8-8-2013)
§ 34.45  TRAINING.
   No person shall be retained as a part-time police officer who has not
achieved certification from the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards
Board (the "Board") in the manner required by the village, including successful
completion of police officer training pursuant to the Intergovernmental Law
Enforcement Officer's In-Service Training Act, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 720, §§ 1 et
seq. in accordance with the procedures for part-time police officers
established by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board. Every
part-time police officer, prior to entering into any duties, also shall receive
not less than 40 hours of training within the Police Department, including,
without limitation, police procedures, laws of arrest, search and seizure,
deadly force, traffic law, criminal code and any other pertinent training
issues covering rules and regulations, directives, and policies and procedures.
Part-time police officers shall familiarize themselves with and be subject to
and obey all ordinances and other rules, regulations, policies and procedures
governing the conduct and operation of the Police Department of the village,
including but not limited to the Village Personnel Code.
(Ord. 13-1082, passed 8-8-2013)
CHAPTER 35:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Training programs
   
35.02   Charges for use of Fire Department
   
35.03   Mitigation rates for the delivery of emergency and non-emergency
services
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01  TRAINING PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The Village of Calumet Park does hereby elect to participate in the
programs provided for in the Illinois Fire Protection Training Act.
   (B)   Prior to any trainee commencing regular full-time employment as a
firefighter, the trainee must have been certified by the Illinois State Fire
Marshal as a Firefighter II, and as having successfully completed an approved
training course as provided in the Act.
   (C)   That the Firefighter II training must be completed by a trainee within
his or her probationary period of 12 months, except for volunteers, part-time
and paid on-call personnel.
   (D)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the Village of Calumet
Park are hereby instructed and directed to make the necessary amendments to the
personnel rules, the Manual of Rules of the Village of Calumet Park Fire
Department, and rules of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in order to
require that any person appointed to the Fire Department of the Village of
Calumet Park shall not become a regular member of the Calumet Park Fire
Department unless and until he or she shall complete, pursuant to the Illinois
Fire Protection Training Act, the approved training course within 12 months of
the date of his or her initial employment.
(Ord. 82-396, passed 9-23-1982)
§ 35.02  CHARGES FOR USE OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The following is a list of fees for various emergency services
provided by the Calumet Park Fire Department:
 
Service            Non-Resident Fee Resident Fee
ALS                $900             $800
ALS2               $1,000           $900
BLS                $700             $600
Mileage (per mile) $15              $15
 
   Starting May 1, 2014, each of the above fees shall be indexed every May 1 by
the Village Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal League’s Municipal Price Index
(MPI). Any such adjustment will use the Illinois MPI for the base value and
will be rounded to the nearest $10 amount.
   (B)   The Chief of the Calumet Park Fire Department shall be responsible for
the collection of any charges due pursuant to the preceding sections and may
take such action as he or she deems necessary to collect such charges, as well
as all reasonable costs and attorney’s fees necessary for the collection of the
charges. All monies collected by the Chief of the Calumet Park Fire Department
pursuant to this division shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer within
seven days of their receipt.
(Ord. 98-705, passed 3-12-1998; Ord. 04-859, passed 10-28-2004; 08-962, passed
7-10-2008; Ord. 12-1051, passed 2-9-2012; Ord. 13-1090, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 35.03  MITIGATION RATES FOR THE DELIVERY OF EMERGENCY AND NON- EMERGENCY
SERVICES.
   (A)   The Calumet Park Fire Department shall initiate mitigation rates for
the delivery of emergency and non-emergency services by the Fire Department for
personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency
incidents as listed in Exhibit A to Ordinance 13-1092, passed December 12,
2013. The mitigation rates shall be based on actual costs of the services and
that which is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) as shown in Exhibit A,
which may include any services, personnel, supplies, and equipment and with
baselines established by addendum to this document.
   (B)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party through their
insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party will be billed
directly.
   (C)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees may make rules and regulations and
from time to time may amend, revoke, or add rules and regulations, not
consistent with this section, as they may deem necessary or expedient in
respect to billing for these mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
   (D)   It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Village
Board concerning and relating to the adoption of this section were adopted in
open meetings of this Village Board, and that all deliberations of this Village
Board and any of its committees that resulted in such formal actions were in
accordance with all legal requirements, and the ordinances of the Village of
Calumet Park.
(Ord. 13-1092, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who avails himself or itself of the
services of the Village of Calumet Park ambulance or the services of the
Calumet Park Fire Department is presumed to have agreed to the payment of the
charges provided in §
35.02. Any such person who has willfully refused to pay the charges hereby
established for a period of 90 days from the date such services are rendered
shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of §
35.02, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 98-705, passed 3-12-1998; Ord. 04-859, passed 10-28-2004; 08-962, passed
7-10-2008; Ord. 12-1051, passed 2-9-2012; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 36:  FEES AND TAXATION
Section
General Administrative Adjudication; Schedule of Fines
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Administrative composition
   
36.03   Procedure
   
36.04   Administrative hearing
   
36.05   Notices
   
36.06   Final determination of liability
   
36.07   Judicial review
   
36.08   Enforcement of judgement
   
36.09   Schedule of fines; penalties
   
36.10   Immobilization; towing and impoundment
Specific Fees; Taxation; Charges, Fees, Assessments, Debts and Obligations
   
36.25   In aid of collection of village taxes, fees and the like
   
36.26   Attorney's fees
   
36.27   Settlement of compliance tickets
   
36.28   Charges for copies of official documents
   
36.29   Processing fee for dishonored checks
Municipal Gas Use Tax
   
36.40   Short title
   
36.41   Definitions
   
36.42   Tax
   
36.43   Collection of tax by public utility
   
36.44   Books and records
 
   
36.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Real estate transfer tax, see §§
96.45 et seq.
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION; SCHEDULE OF FINES
§ 36.01  PURPOSE.
   The stated purpose of this subchapter is to provide a fair and efficient
enforcement of village ordinances as may be allowed by law, through an
administrative adjudication of violations of the village ordinances and
establishing a schedule of fines and penalties and authority and procedures for
collection of unpaid fines and penalties.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.02  ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   The system of administrative adjudication of village ordinances shall
provide for an Ordinance Enforcement Administrator, Hearing Officer and Hearing
Room Security Personnel with the power, authority and limitations as are
hereinafter set forth.
   (A)   Ordinance Enforcement Administrator. Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator shall be empowered and authorized and directed to:
      (1)   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
village ordinance violation as may be permitted by law and directed by
ordinance;
      (2)   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required under
this subchapter or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose of
this subchapter;
      (3)   Collect moneys paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a
final determination of liability;
      (4)   Certify copies of final determinations of an ordinance violation
adjudicated pursuant to this subchapter, and any reports verifying the final
determination of any violation liability which was issued in accordance with
this subchapter, the laws of the State of Illinois, including ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 11-208.3;
      (5)   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with this subchapter and the
laws of the State of Illinois, including ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5;
      (6)   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created;
      (7)   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies and pursuit of all post-judgment remedies available by law; and
      (8)   At the direction of the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator, the
System Coordinator/Computer Operator is hereby authorized and directed to
operate and maintain the computer program for the administrative adjudication
system created by this subchapter for the Village of Calumet Park, on a day-to-
day basis, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Input of violation notice information;
         (b)   Establishing court dates and notice dates;
         (c)   Record fine and penalty assessment and payments;
         (d)   Issue payment receipts;
         (e)   Issue succeeding notice of hearing dates and/or final
determination of liability; issue notice of immobilization; issue notice of
impending impoundment; issue notice of impending drivers license suspension, as
directed by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator in accordance with the
provision hereinafter set forth; and
         (f)   Keep accurate records of appearances and non-appearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, sanctions imposed, if any, fines and
penalties assessed and paid.
   (B)   Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall preside over all
adjudicatory hearings and shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the code violation;
      (2)   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      (3)   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      (4)   Issuing and signing a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists;
      (5)   Imposing penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation, except
however, that in no event shall the Hearing Officer have authority to impose a
penalty of incarceration or any other penalty in excess of that allowed by law;
and
      (6)   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings, the
Hearing Officer shall have successfully completed a formal training program
which includes the following:
         (a)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings which they will conduct;
         (b)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that
they will adjudicate;
         (c)   Observation of administrative hearings;
         (d)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on
evidence and issuing final orders; and
         (e)   In addition, a Hearing Officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three years.
   (C)   Hearing Room Security Personnel. Hearing room security personnel shall
be qualified, full-time, part-time or auxiliary police officers who are hereby
authorized and directed to:
      (1)   Maintain hearing room decorum;
      (2)   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies of
the Circuit Court; and
      (3)   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the Hearing Officer or Ordinance Enforcement Administrator.
   (D)   Appointments. The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint persons to
hold the positions above set forth. Other than the Hearing Officer, one person
may hold and fulfill the requirements of one or more of the above stated
positions and compensation for each of the above stated positions shall be as
approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.03  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure. The system of administrative adjudication of any village
ordinance violation authorized to be adjudicated hereunder, shall be in
accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   Violation notice of any ordinance violation including violations of
the village traffic ordinances shall be issued by the persons authorized under
this subchapter and shall contain information and shall be certified and
constitute prima facie evidence of the violation cited as hereinafter set
forth.
      (2)   All full-time, part-time and auxiliary police officers, as well as
other specifically authorized individuals shall have the authority to issue
violation notices.
      (3)   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
detects an ordinance violation is authorized to issue notice of violation
thereof and shall make service thereof as is hereafter set forth.
      (4)   The violation notice shall contain, but shall not be limited to,
the following information:
         (a)   The name of the party violating the ordinance, if known;
         (b)   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance);
         (c)   The particular ordinance violated;
         (d)   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable);
         (e)   The fine and penalty which may be assessed for late payment;
         (f)   The signature and identification number of the person issuing
the notice; and
         (g)   The date and the location of the adjudicating hearing of
ordinance violations, the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held and the penalties for failure to appear the hearing.
   (B)   Service.
      (1)   Service of any violation notice shall be made by the person issuing
the notice:
         (a)   In the case of violation of the village traffic ordinances by:
            1.   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to the
vehicle;
            2.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee
of the vehicle, if present; or
            3.   Handing the notice to the responsible person or leaving the
notice with any person 12 years of age or older at the residence of the
responsible owner.
         (b)   In the case of any ordinance violation other than a violation of
the village traffic ordinances by:
            1.   Handing the notice to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation;
            2.   Handing the notice to the responsible person or leaving the
notice with any person 12 years of age or older at the residence of the
responsible person;
            3.   Mailing the notice to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation; or
            4.   Posting the notice upon the property where the violation is
found when the person is the owner or manager of the property.
      (2)   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
verified by the person issuing the notice by:
         (a)   Signing his or her name to the notice at the time of issuance;
or
         (b)   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by
signing a single certificate to be kept by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator, attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the
device while under his or her control.
      (3)   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be
retained by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator and kept as a record in the
ordinary course of business.
      (4)   Any violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance
herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.04  ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   An administrative hearing to adjudicate any-alleged ordinance
violation on its merits, or to contest the validity of a notice of impending
immobilization impoundment, or the validity of a notice of impending driver's
license suspension shall be granted to the registered owner or operator of the
cited vehicle, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3 or the lessee of the
cited vehicle, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306, incorporated herein by reference
and at the date, time and place as if set forth by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator and served upon the registered owner, operator or lessee for
hearing contesting the validity of notices of impending immobilization or
impending impoundment or driver's license suspension.
   (B)   All administrative hearings shall be recorded and shall culminate in a
determination of liability or non-liability, made by the Hearing Officer, who
shall consider facts and/or testimony without the application of the formal or
technical rules of evidence.
   (C)   Evidence including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is a type
commonly relied upon by reasonable prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs. Any party may be represented by counsel at his or her own expense. The
burden of proof shall be on the alleged offender to refute the prima facie case
set forth in the verified notice of violation.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.05  NOTICES.
   (A)   Upon failure of the person receiving a notice of a violation of a
village ordinance, other than a village traffic ordinance violation, to appear
at the time and date designated for a hearing or, in the case of a violation of
the village traffic ordinances, the registered owner, operator or lessee of the
cited vehicle to pay the fine, in full as stated on the notice, the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator shall send or cause to be sent notices by first class
mail, postage prepaid, to the person who received the notice of an ordinance
violation; or, in the case of the violation of the village traffic ordinances,
the registered owner or operator of the cited vehicle at the address as is
recorded with the Secretary of State, and shall be sent to the lessee of the
cited vehicle at the address as is recorded with the Secretary of State, and
shall be sent to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the address last known to
the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease. Service of notices
sent in accordance herewith shall be complete as of the date of deposit in the
United States mail.
   (B)   The notices sent in accordance herewith shall be in the following
sequence and contain, but not be limited to, the following information. Upon
the failure of the person receiving the notice of an ordinance violation or, in
the case of a notice of a violation of the village traffic ordinances, the
registered owner, operator or lessee or the cited vehicle to pay the fine in
full as stated on said notice, a notice shall be sent, as above set forth, and
shall contain, but not be limited to the following information:
      (1)   Date and location of violation cited in the violation notice;
      (2)   Particular ordinance violated;
      (3)   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable);
      (4)   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment;
      (5)   A section entitled "notice of hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the person receiving a notice of ordinance violation, in the case of
a violation of the village traffic ordinances, or the registered owner,
operator or lessee may appear at an administrative hearing to contest the
validity of the violation notice on the date and at the time and place as
specified in the notice of hearing;
      (6)   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits;
      (7)   Statement that failure to either pay fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of liability
for the cited violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated; and
      (8)   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust,
available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or
penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the village, except that in the
case of alleged violations of the village traffic ordinances, the alleged
violator shall be given no less than three opportunities to appear and failure
to appear shall result in a final determination of liability.
   (C)   A notice of final determination of liability shall be sent following
the conclusion of administrative hearing, as is hereinafter set forth, and
shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information and warnings:
      (1)   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the village;
      (2)   A statement of any sanction ordered or costs imposed which costs
are debts due and owing the village;
      (3)   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the village within the time specified may result in proceeding with
collection procedures in the same manner as a judgment entered by any court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (4)   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten or more vehicular standing or parking
violations under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5, incorporated herein by
reference;
      (5)   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village may be immobilized and impounded for failure to pay fines or
penalties for ten or more vehicular standing or parking regulation violations;
and
      (6)   Any other warning of possible impoundment as permitted by law or
ordinance.
   (D)   A notice of impending suspension of a person's drivers license shall
be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine or
penalty that remains due and owing on ten or more vehicular standing or parking
regulation violations.
      (1)   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or penalty
owing within 45 days of the date of the notice will result in the village
notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for initiation of
suspension proceedings under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6206.5, incorporated herein
by reference.
      (2)   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent
by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
Secretary of State.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.06  FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   A final determination of liability shall occur following the failure
to pay the fine or penalty after the Hearing Officer's determination of
liability and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, any administrative
review procedures hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Where a person fails to appear at the administrative hearing to
contest the alleged violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior served or mailed notice pursuant to §
36.05 above, the Hearing Officer's determination of liability shall become
final either upon a denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination
or upon the expiration of the period of filing a petition without a filing have
been made.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.07  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any final decision by a Hearing Officer that a ordinance violation does or
does not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.08  ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law are a debt and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of
an ordinance violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   (1)   In any case in which a Hearing Officer finds that a defendant
has failed to comply with a judgment ordering a defendant to correct an
ordinance violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a result of an
ordinance violation, but expenses incurred by a municipality to enforce the
judgment including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, court costs, related
to property demolition or foreclosure after they are fixed by the Hearing
Officer, shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
      (2)   Prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing Officer pursuant to
this subsection, the village shall provide notice to the defendant that states
that the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment.
      (3)   The notice shall set the date for such a hearing, which shall not
be less than seven days from the date that the notice is served.
      (4)   If notice is served by mail, the seven-day period shall begin to
run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   (D)   (1)   A lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate,
or both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the
municipality.
      (2)   The lien may be recorded and enforced in the same manner as a
judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No lien may be enforced under this section until it has been
recorded in the manner provided by Article XII of the Code of Civil Procedure,
being ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq., or by the Uniform Commercial
Code.
   (E)   A Hearing Officer may set aside any judgment by default and set a new
hearing date upon a petition filed within 21 days after the issuance of the
order of default if the Hearing Officer determines that the petitioner's
failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any time if the
petitioner establishes that the municipality did not provide proper service of
process.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)
§ 36.09  SCHEDULE OF FINES; PENALTIES.
   The fines and penalties which shall be imposed shall be as follows.
   (A)   Violation. For violation of any village ordinance other than a
violation of the village traffic ordinances of the Village of Calumet Park,
fines and penalties shall be as provided in the village ordinances and shall
include the assessment of costs upon finding a defendant liable for the charge
violation, except, in no event shall the hearing office have authority to:
impose a penalty of incarceration; or impose of a fine in excess of $50,000.
The monetary fines shall be exclusive of the cost of enforcement or the costs
imposed to secure compliance with the village ordinances and shall not be
applicable in cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected
by the village.
   (B)   Fine payment schedule. The fines and penalties which shall be imposed
for the violation of vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation
violation(s) shall be as follows.
 
       Fine Schedule      General Fine Handicapped Fine Traffic Compliance
                          Amount       Amount
       Upon service of a
       violation and paid
       issuance, and no
Step 1 request for        $50          $100             $50
       hearing has been
       timely filed, the
       fine amount owed
       shall be:
       Having failed to
       pay the fine
       amount specified
       in Step 1 prior to
       or on the first
Step 2 hearing date, the  $100         $150             $100
       fine amount, if
       paid on the second
       hearing date, or
       prior to the
       second hearing
       date, will be:
       Having failed to
       pay the fine
       amount specified
       in Step 2 prior to
       the second hearing
Step 3 date, the fine     $200         $200             $200
       amount, if paid on
       the second hearing
       date or prior to
       the third hearing
       date, will be:
       Having failed to
       pay the fine
       amount specified
       in Step 3 prior to
       the third hearing
       date, the fine
       amount, if paid on
Step 4 the third hearing  $250         $250             $250
       date or upon the
       finding of
       liability for the
       violation after
       failure to appear
       at the third
       hearing date, will
       be:
 
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998; Ord. 04-861, passed 11-10-2004)
§ 36.10  IMMOBILIZATION; TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   General. Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has been determined
to be liable for ten or more vehicular standing or parking regulation violation
(s), for which the fines or penalties assessed remain unpaid, may be
immobilized, booted or towed and impounded if:
      (1)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator has determined that a
person has been determined to be liable for ten or more ordinance violations,
for which the fines or penalties remain unpaid;
      (2)   The person determined to be liable for ten or more violations is
the registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the village's
geographical boundaries;
      (3)   A seizure notice has been sent to the registered owner of the motor
vehicle located within the geographical boundaries of the village which
contains, but shall not be limited to the following:
         (a)   That a final determination has been made on ten or more
ordinance violations, for which the fines and penalties remain unpaid;
         (b)   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            1.   The ordinance violation notice number;
            2.   Date of issuance; and
            3.   Total amount of fines and penalties assessed.
         (c)   That the motor vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village are subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the
fines and penalties are not paid within, but not later than 15 days of the date
of the notice;
         (d)   Date of immobilization;
         (e)   Date of impending towing and impoundment; and
         (f)   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the notice
by appearing in person before the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator within 15
days of the date of the notice and submitting evidence which would conclusively
disprove liability, such as the following:
            1.   The registered owner was not the owner or lessee of the
vehicle on the date or dates the notices of violation were issued;
            2.   The fines or penalties for the violations cited in the notice
were paid in full; or
            3.   The registered owner has not accumulated ten or more ordinance
violation notices which are unpaid, not adjudicated or for which no appearance
was made.
      (4)   The motor vehicle of the registered owner to whom notice is sent
has failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the notice
and has failed to appear with evidence to conclusively disprove liability
before the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator to contest the validity of the
notice.
   (B)   Request for hearing in case of towing and impoundment of motor
vehicles. Upon receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity of
the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next scheduled hearing
date or if sooner scheduled by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator for good
cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than 30 days
after the request for hearing is filed and shall serve the notice of the
hearing date upon the registered owner by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address as is set forth on the request for hearing. Service of the notice
shall be complete on the date it is placed in the United States mail.
   (C)   Notice affixed to vehicle in cases of immobilization.
      (1)   Upon immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be
affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
      (2)   The notice shall warn that the vehicle is immobilized and that any
attempt to move the vehicle may result in its damage.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that the unauthorized removal of or
damage to the immobilizing restraint is a violation of §§ 16-1 and 21-1 of the
Illinois Criminal Code.
      (4)   The notice also shall provide the following information specifying
that a release of the immobilizing restraint may be had by:
         (a)   Paying all the fines and penalties, if any, on the outstanding
complaints for which notice has been sent prior to the date of the
immobilization; or
         (b)   Completing appearance forms on all outstanding parking violation
complaints for which notice had been sent prior to the date of the
immobilization and depositing collateral in the amount of 50% of the total
fines for these outstanding parking violation complaints, or $500, whichever is
less.
   (D)   Towing of immobilized vehicle. Except where the vehicle is otherwise
subject to towing, if the immobilizing restraint has not been released as
herein above provided, within 72 hours of its placement, the vehicle shall be
towed and impounded.
   (E)   Post-impoundment vehicle. Within ten days after a vehicle has been
impounded, notice of impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the registered owner of the vehicle. The notice shall
state that the owner has the right to a post-immobilization and post-towing
hearing as provided in division (C) above, and that if the vehicle is not
claimed within 30 days from the date of the notice, the vehicle may be sold or
otherwise disposed of in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (F)   Hearing a case of vehicle immobilization.
      (1)   The owner of an immobilized vehicle or other interested person
shall have the rights to a hearing to determine whether the immobilization or
any subsequent towing was erroneous or whether the vehicle was properly
included on an immobilization list, if the owner files a written demand for a
hearing before the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator within 14 days after
issuance of the notice specified in division (C) above or within 14 days of
immobilization, whichever is later.
      (2)   A hearing shall be conducted on any business day within 48 hours of
receipt of a written demand for hearing, unless otherwise mutually agreed by
the parties.
      (3)   Failure to request or attend a scheduled hearing shall be deemed a
waiver of the right to a hearing. In the event of such failure, any amount
deposited pursuant to division (C) above shall be forfeited.
      (4)   A hearing provided by this section shall not determine the validity
of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or notice of ordinance violation issued
relative to the immobilized vehicle, but shall only related to whether the
vehicle was properly immobilized or towed by determining whether the owner
previously submitted evidence required by §
36.09 above.
   (G)   Towing services.
      (1)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall appoint or retain the
services of an individual agency or company to tow and impound vehicles in
accordance herewith, provided that the individual agency or company is fully
insured and licensed according to local or state law and has available a
secured impound area within which to retain vehicles impounded hereunder.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a SECURED AREA shall mean an area
bounded by a fence, chain-link or otherwise, of a sufficient height and with
locking gates so as to minimize or prevent unauthorized entry into the
impounded vehicles.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998)  Penalty, see §
36.99
SPECIFIC FEES; TAXATION; CHARGES, FEES, ASSESSMENTS, DEBTS AND OBLIGATIONS
§ 36.25  IN AID OF COLLECTION OF VILLAGE TAXES, FEES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
cooperative association shall be eligible to receive any license, permit,
privilege or service from the Village of Calumet Park whenever the person,
firm, partnership, association, corporation or cooperative association shall
have neglected, or refused, or shall have defaulted in the payment of the
Village of Calumet Park, any village tax, service charge, fee, assessment, debt
or obligation of whatsoever kind.
      (2)   Further, whenever any such person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or cooperative association shall have neglected, or refused, or
shall have defaulted in the payment to the Village of Calumet Park of any
village tax, service, charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation of whatsoever
kind, and there is money owed to the person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or cooperative association from the Village of Calumet Park, the
village shall not pay the indebtedness to the person, firm, partnership,
association, corporation or cooperative association, until the person, firm,
partnership, association, corporation or cooperative association shall have
satisfied the village tax, service charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation.
      (3)   Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
cooperative association, for the purpose of this section shall be considered
indebted to the Village of Calumet Park whenever any village tax, service
charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation has remained unpaid for a period of
seven days from the date of any such village tax, service charge, fee,
assessment, debt or obligation shall become due the village.
   (B)   No official, officer or employee of the Village of Calumet Park shall
issue any license, permit, grant any privilege to, nor pay any debt owed to, or
deliver any service to any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation
or cooperative association when any such person, firm, partnership,
association, corporation or cooperative association shall have neglected, or
refused, or shall have defaulted in the payment to the Village of Calumet Park
of any village tax, service charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation of
whatsoever kind.
   (C)   In order to afford reasonable assurance against erroneous or arbitrary
withholding of any license, permit, privilege or any debt owed by the Village
of Calumet Park to any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
cooperative association, written notice shall be given by the Village of
Calumet Park to the person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
cooperative association informing the person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or cooperative association that no license, permit, privilege or
any debt owed by the village shall be issued or paid from the date of mailing
of the notice until the delinquent tax, service, charge, fee, assessment, debt
or obligation shall have been paid.
   (D)   In order to afford reasonable assurance against erroneous or arbitrary
withholding of water service and garbage disposal service from any person,
firm, partnership, association, corporation or cooperative association, who
shall have neglected, or refused, or shall have defaulted in the payment to the
Village of Calumet Park of any village tax, service charge, fee, assessment,
debt or obligation of whatsoever kind, written notice shall be given by the
Village of Calumet Park to the person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or cooperative association, informing the person, firm,
partnership, association, corporation or cooperative association that the water
service and garbage disposal service shall be discontinued if the delinquent
tax, service, charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation continues to exist at
the end of five days from the date of mailing of the notice.
   (E)   The form of notice as hereinabove referred to, shall be as follows:
NOTICE OF TERMINATION
TO: _____________________________
DATE OF MAILING: ______________
YOU AND EACH OF YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT the Village of Calumet Park, a
municipal corporation, organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws
of the State of Illinois:
   A.   HAS TERMINATED your eligibility to receive any license, permit, or
privilege from the Village of Calumet Park because of your failure or refusal
to pay to the Village of Calumet Park,
___________________________________ ___________________________________
___________________________________ ________________________
   B.   SHALL TERMINATE WITHIN FIVE (5) DAYS of the mailing of this Notice your
water service and garbage disposal service because of your failure or refusal
to pay to the Village of Calumet Park,
___________________________________ ___________________________________
___________________________________ ________________________
FURTHER, YOU AND EACH OF YOU ARE NOTIFIED THAT the amount of money now claimed
to be due the Village of Calumet Park for ____________________________________
is _____________________  Dollars ($__), which amount became delinquent on
____________, 20___.
VILLAGE OF CALUMET PARK
a Municipal Corporation
BY: ___________________________________
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
               ) SS
COUNTY OF COOK   )
__________________________ being first duly sworn on oath, deposes and says
that she is the duly authorized Village Clerk of the Village of Calumet Park,
and that as the Village Clerk, she has in her custody and control the books and
records of the accounts of the Village of Calumet Park and that she has read
the foregoing Notice of Termination and knows the contents thereof, and that
all statements contained therein are true.
____________________________________
Village Clerk
Subscribed and Sworn to
before me this ______ day
of _____________, 20___.
___________________________________
Notary Public
   (F)   Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or cooperative
association whose license, permit, privilege, water service or garbage disposal
service are withheld, or are to be discontinued, or who shall have a debt owed
to them by the Village of Calumet Park, payment of which has been prohibited by
the terms of this section because of their failure to pay any village tax,
service charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation, may appeal the question of
the withholding of any license, permit, privilege or the discontinuance of any
water service and garbage disposal services to the Mayor. The Mayor shall have
authority to make the decisions and to enter the orders as may meet the ends of
justice.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, at no time
shall any police, fire or other emergency services be withheld from any person,
firm, partnership, association, corporation or cooperative association because
of their failure to pay to the Village of Calumet Park any such village tax,
service charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation.
   (H)   Whenever any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
cooperative association, or any other user of services or a owner of a building
which has received services from the Village of Calumet Park shall have
defaulted in the payment to the Village of Calumet Park, of any tax, service
charge, fee, assessment, debt or obligation, of whatsoever kind, for a period
in excess of 30 days from the date the obligation has become due to the
village, the Village of Calumet Park may sue the obligor of the debt, or the
owner of the real estate which is the recipient of the services in a civil
action to recover the money due for services rendered plus a reasonable
attorney's fee to be fixed by the court.
   (I)   (1)   At any time that any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or cooperative association or building owner to which the Village
of Calumet Park has provided water services and the bill for the services has
remained unpaid for a period in excess of 60 days, the Village of Calumet Park
may perfect a lien upon the real estate upon which the water service has been
provided.
      (2)   Any charges for water supplied by the Village of Calumet Park may
create a lien upon the real estate upon or for which water services is supplied
whenever the charges or rates become delinquent as provided by this section. A
lien is created under the preceding sentence only if the Village of Calumet
Park sends to the owner or owners of record of the real estate, as referenced
by the taxpayer's identification number: a copy of each delinquency notice sent
to the person who is delinquent in paying the charges or rates or other notices
sufficient to inform the owner or owners of record, as referenced by the
taxpayer's identification number, that the charges or rates have become
delinquent; and a notice that unpaid charges or rates may create a lien on the
real estate under this section.
   (J)   The form of the notice as referred to in the preceding section shall
be as follows:
NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY
TO OWNER OF RECORD   _____________________
            _____________________
            _____________________
DATE OF MAILING      _____________________
Real Estate Tax I.D. No.:   _____________________
Address of Property: __________________________
____________________________________
___________________________________
YOU AND EACH OF YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED by the Village of Calumet Park, a
municipal corporation, organized and existing under and by virtue of the Laws
of the State of Illinois:
   A.   That payment for water services at the above address are delinquent in
accordance with the notice or notices copies of which are attached.
   B.   The unpaid charges may create a lien on the above-referenced parcel of
real estate.
   C.   The total amount remaining unpaid as of the date of this notice is
$____, which amount became delinquent on the ____________, 20____.
VILLAGE OF CALUMET PARK,
a Municipal Corporation,
By: __________________________________
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
               )SS
COUNTY OF COOK   )
_______________________ being first duly sworn on oath, deposes and says that
she is the duly authorized Village Clerk of the Village of Calumet Park, and
that as the Village Clerk, she has in her custody and control the books and
records of the accounts of the Village of Calumet Park and that she has read
the foregoing notice of delinquency and knows the contents thereof, and that
all statements contained therein are true.
____________________________________
Village Clerk
Subscribed and sworn to   before me this
_____ day of ____________, 20__.
________________________________
Notary Public
(Ord. 96-669, passed 2-22-1996)
§ 36.26  ATTORNEY'S FEES.
   (A)   With respect to any ordinance or law, in force in the Village of
Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois, the Village of Calumet Park shall be
entitled to recover from any person or entity alleged to have violated any the
ordinance or law, all attorney's fees court costs, witness fees and
stenographer's fees, directly incurred by the village in the enforcement of the
ordinance or law, regardless of whether monetary damages are sought. This
section shall also apply to enforcement of Building Code violations.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall entitle the Village of Calumet
Park, Cook County, Illinois, to a lien against any real estate owned by any
person or entity against whom enforcement is sought, regardless of whether
there has been a determination that any ordinance or law has been violated. The
fact that a matter may be resolved by the violator by effecting compliance with
the ordinance shall not eliminate the right of the Village of Calumet Park to
collect the fees and costs provided herein. This lien shall be effective upon
the issuance of a certificate by the Clerk of the Village of Calumet Park, that
the sums have been expended relative to the enforcement of any ordinance or
law, whether or not the violation involved or related to any real estate owned
by the violator.
   (C)   The Clerk of the Village of Calumet Park shall not issue any transfer
stamps and shall not permit the recording of any deed, transfer of title, or
any other interest in real estate within the Village of Calumet Park, where
there is an outstanding balance for the attorney's fees as certified by the
Clerk.
   (D)   In the event that any portion of this section shall be determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the remaining provisions shall
remain in full force and effect. The invalidity of any section or division
shall not invalidate the remainder of the ordinance.
(Ord. 94-632, passed 7-14-1994)
§ 36.27  SETTLEMENT OF COMPLIANCE TICKETS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance, any person
accused of a violation which can be rectified by correction of the violation
alleged, or accused of failing to purchase, obtain and/or display any permit or
license required pursuant to any other ordinance which requires the purchase of
a license or permit, or accused of failing to wear a seatbelt when required to
do so, may, pursuant to the issuance of a compliance ticket, settle and
compromise that ticket by paying to the Village of Calumet Park a fee of $20
and showing proof of the correction of the violation (i.e., replacement of
faulty equipment, purchase of the required license or permit) within ten days
from the date the alleged violation was committed; or by paying to the Village
of Calumet Park the sum of $40 subsequent to the ten-day period and prior to 30
days from the date the alleged violation was committed, and showing proof of
the correction of the violation.
   (B)   Compliance tickets shall be issued as a courtesy, in lieu of
instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense. If the person accused of the
violation does not settle the claim, the compliance ticket will be converted to
a complaint, or a uniform traffic complaint or notice to appear will be issued
for that violation, and that person shall be subject to the general penalties
set forth in the ordinance which is the subject of the violation.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any traffic offense for
which a court appearance is required pursuant to Illinois Supreme Court Rule
551.
(Ord. 93-598, passed 2-25-1993)
§ 36.28  CHARGES FOR COPIES OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to issue to any
person copies produced by a duplicating process of any public document on file
in the Village Clerk's office.
   (B)   At the time any such order is placed by the person, the Village Clerk
shall collect a sum of money equal to $5 per page for each page so duplicated.
   (C)   In the event a duplicate of a document is requested which has been
produced in pamphlet form, then the Village Clerk shall, in lieu of the charges
set forth in division (B) above, collect the sum of $5.
   (D)   All funds collected by the Village Clerk shall be forthwith turned
over to the Village Treasurer and become and form a part of the General Fund.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any village
official, village attorney, any state or other local governmental agency.
   (F)   No duplicate copies shall be furnished by the Village Clerk unless
payment as hereinabove provided for is first had and obtained.
   (G)   The Village Clerk shall issue receipts for all the payments, retaining
a duplicate copy for the official village files.
(Ord. 86-462, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 36.29  PROCESSING FEE FOR DISHONORED CHECKS.
   In addition to other charges, costs and fees which are due the Village of
Calumet Park from any person, firm or corporation, a processing fee of $30
shall be charged to the account of any person, firm or corporation on whose
behalf a check is tendered to the Village of Calumet Park in payment of any
charge, cost or fee in the event the check is dishonored in the manner as
provided by law.
(Ord. 81-377, passed 12-10-1981; Ord. 93-602, passed 6-11-1993)
MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX
§ 36.40  SHORT TITLE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be known as the “Municipal Gas Use
Tax” and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the Village of
Calumet Park, the State of Illinois, or any other municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 17-1183, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 36.41  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint  venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT.  The Public Utilities Act as amended, (ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.).
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  A public utility as defined in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105
of the Public Utilities Act.
   RETAIL PURCHASER.  Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
   SALE AT RETAIL.  Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term RETAILER means any
person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
(Ord. 17-1183, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 36.42  TAX.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this subchapter, a tax is imposed on
the privilege of using or consuming gas in the village that is purchased in a
sale at retail at the rate of $0.05 per therm.
   (B)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
impose a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling
or transporting gas.
   (C)   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to §
36.43 of this subchapter on or before the payment due date of the public
utility's bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the Village Treasurer
on or before the fifteenth day of the second month following the month in which
the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been
designated to collect the tax pursuant to §
36.43 or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a public utility so
designated.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the constitutions of the United
States or State of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
village.
   (E)   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this subchapter with respect to the use or consumption of the
gas, but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the Village Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   (F)   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after January 1, 2018.
   (G)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provision of this subchapter, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be:
      (1)   Credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this
subchapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; or
      (2)   Subject to a refund if no such tax is due; provided that no amounts
erroneously paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefore
shall be so credited or refunded.
   (H)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
   (I)   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the village by a
retail purchaser shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this subchapter if the
gross receipts from the sale at retail of such gas to the retail purchaser are
properly subject to a tax imposed upon the seller of such gas pursuant to the
village's municipal utility tax, as amended from time to time by citation to
ordinance or code section authorized pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2.
(Ord. 17-1183, passed 9-14-2017; Ord. 17-1192, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 36.43  COLLECTION OF TAX BY PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The Mayor, Village Treasurer, and Village Clerk are each authorized to enter
into a contract for collection of the tax imposed by this subchapter with any
public utility providing gas service in the village. The contract shall include
and substantially conform with the following provisions:
   (A)   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as an
independent contractor;
   (B)   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the Village Treasurer
no more often than once each month;
   (C)   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections a
service fee equal to 3% of the amounts collected and timely remitted to the
Village Treasurer;
   (D)   The public utility shall not be responsible to the village for any tax
not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
   (E)   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon in writing.
(Ord. 17-1183, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 36.44  BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original
source documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or transactions
that gave rise, or may have given rise to any tax liability or exemption under
this subchapter. All such books and records shall, at all times during business
hours, be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
(Ord. 17-1183, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 36.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Fines and fees for immobilization (§
36.10).
      (1)   The fine for immobilization and the fine for impoundment and towing
shall be pursuant to §
10.99.
      (2)   The owner of the vehicle shall also be charged reasonable storage
and towing fees should the vehicle be removed to a private storage facility,
provided that no fees shall be assessed for any immobilization or tow which has
been determined to be erroneous.
(Ord. 98-710, passed 5-28-1998; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 37:  CIVIL DEFENSE AND EMERGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Local state of emergency
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
37.15   Establishment
   
37.16   Coordinator
   
37.17   Functions
   
37.18   Service as mobile support team
   
37.19   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
37.20   Emergency action
   
37.21   Compensation
   
37.22   Reimbursement by state
   
37.23   Purchases and expenditures
   
37.24   Oath
   
37.25   Office
   
37.26   Appropriation; levy of taxes
Emergency Energy Plan
   
37.40   Findings of fact and recitals
   
37.41   Adoption
   
37.42   Definitions
   
37.43   Submittal of emergency energy plan
   
37.44   Review of plan
   
37.45   Implementation of emergency energy plan
   
37.46   Construction
 
   
37.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01  LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this division (A), except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      CURFEW.  A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the village except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
      EMERGENCY.
         (a) A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
         (b)   Any natural disaster, epidemic, or manmade calamity, including
outbreak of disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion, or eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits
of the village, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or
the destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must
be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Declaration. Whenever an emergency, as defined in division (A) of this
section exists, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence of a local
state of emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor, under oath,
setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the nature
of the emergency and declaring that a local state of emergency exists in
accordance with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration
must be filed with the Municipal Clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
   (C)   Curfew authorized. After proclamation of a local state of emergency by
the Mayor, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical
areas of the village or to the village as a whole, as he or she deems
reasonable and advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night
as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Orders authorized.  After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the Mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare,
and to address this issue caused threatened by emergency, make take any and all
of the following actions by executive order during the state of emergency:
      (1)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency; and
      (2)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the village for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality; and
      (3)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the
current fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Village Mayor
shall be authorized to approve new spending by the village during the existence
of the local state of emergency; and
      (4)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns
and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted; and
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer; and
      (6)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixes to a motor vehicle; and
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and
      (8)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   (E)   Duration. The declaration herein authorized shall be effective until
the adjournment of the next regular or special meeting of the Board of
Trustees, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of
the Mayor, or, his or her interim emergency successor, indicating that the
civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor or his or her interim emergency
successor, shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence of an emergency on
the fifteenth and thirty-first (or thirtieth) of each month, during the time
said emergency exists.
   (F)   Notice. Upon issuing the declaration herein authorized, the Municipal
Clerk shall notify the news media situated within the village, and shall cause
at least four copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the
emergency and any curfew to be posted at the following places within the
village: the Village Hall, the police station, the post office, and in the area
of any curfew.
   (G)   Effect on other ordinances. Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to impair the powers contained in this Code, giving power to the
police and fire departments, but shall be construed together with existing
ordinance now in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the
village.
(Ord. 20-1231, passed 4-23-2020)  Penalty, see §
37.99
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 37.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Calumet Park Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency (ESDA), the purpose of which is to prevent, minimize, repair
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or human-made disasters, in
accordance with Emergency Management Agency Act, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et
seq.
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and the additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.16  COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the Village of Calumet Park ESDA shall be appointed
by the Mayor by and with the consent of the Council and shall serve for a
period of three years.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Mayor as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him or her, shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.17  FUNCTIONS.
   The village ESDA shall perform the ESDA functions within the village as
shall be prescribed in and by the state ESDA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor and in addition, shall perform the duties outside the corporate limits
as may be required pursuant to any Mutual Aid Agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided in the "State ESDA Act of 1975".
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.18  SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the village ESDA organization may be designated
as members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA
as provided by law. The leader of the Mobile Support Team shall be designated
by the Coordinator of the village ESDA organization.
   (B)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to the employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from
the village reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.19  AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
village and by the State Director of ESDA.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.20  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action, or from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the
village ESDA to cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in
the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.21  COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in the training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held;
members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for the
training time such compensation as may be established by ordinance.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.22  REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.23  PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the Village
Coordinator of the ESDA, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place
the village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public
health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the Village
Coordinator of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the village to procure the
services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for the purposes,
in view of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or
obligations as authorized by the "state ESDA Act of 1975", provided that if the
Board of Trustees meets at such time they shall act subject to the directions
and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.24  OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
   "I,  _____________________, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend
and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, both foreign
and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear
that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am affiliated with the CALUMET PARK ESDA organization, I will not advocate
nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence."
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.25  OFFICE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a village building, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Mayor for the village ESDA as its
office.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
§ 37.26  APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Board of Trustees may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the
manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax
not to exceed $.05 per $100.01 of the assessed value of all taxable property in
addition to all other taxes, as provided by the "State ESDA Act of 1975";
however, that amount collectable under the levy shall in no event exceed $.25
per capita.
(Ord. 76-232, passed 3-25-1976)
EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN
§ 37.40  FINDINGS OF FACT AND RECITALS.
   The foregoing findings of fact and recitals, and each of them, are hereby
made a part of this subchapter and are incorporated by reference as if set
forth verbatim herein.
(Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999)
§ 37.41  ADOPTION.
   The following Emergency Energy Plan is hereby adopted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the Village of Calumet Park, Cook
County, Illinois.
(Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999)
§ 37.42  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROL AREA.  An electrical system bounded by interconnection (tie-line)
metering and telemetry. It controls generation directly to maintain its
interchange schedule with other control areas and contributes to frequency
regulation of the interconnection.
   CONTROL AREA EMERGENCY.  That control area is at risk of having to shed firm
load, having taken or committed to take all feasible mitigating action short of
shedding firm load and firm sales.
   CONTROLLED ROTATING INTERRUPTIONS OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE.  The implementation
of a plan to curtail electric service to firm load customers for a short period
of time and rotating this curtailment of electric service through different
areas within the electric utility's service territory in a situation where the
demand has exceeded or is at significant risk of exceeding the supply of
electricity available to the electric utility. The action of an electric
utility to interrupt or curtail electric service to a customer participating in
or taking service under an interruptible or curtailable rate is not included in
this definition of a CONTROLLED ROTATING INTERRUPTION OF ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   ELECTRIC UTILITY COMPANY or ELECTRIC UTILITY.  Any person or entity engaged
in the business of distributing, transmitting or otherwise delivering
electricity, regardless of its source, for use or consumption within the
village. The term shall not include any person or entity who delivers
electricity to fewer than 50 persons within the village.
   EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN.  The portions of the emergency load conservation
procedures, which immediately precede and include the controlled rotating
interruption of electrical service to firm load customers within the village.
The Emergency Energy Plan shall include the following steps:
      (1)   A request for emergency help from neighboring utilities;
      (2)   A declaration of a control area emergency;
      (3)   A public appeal for voluntary curtailment of electricity use; and
      (4)   Implementation of the plan for controlled rotating interruptions of
electrical service.
   EMERGENCY LOAD CONSERVATION PROCEDURES.  A planned course of action
developed by an electric utility company to be implemented in emergency
situations when the demand for electricity exceeds, or is at significant risk
of exceeding, the supply of electricity available to the electric utility.
(Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999)
§ 37.43  SUBMITTAL OF EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN.
   (A)   (1)   Every electric utility company must have adopted an emergency
energy plan no later than 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter,
or within 30 days after becoming an electric utility company, whichever is
later.
      (2)   Every such electric utility company shall submit to the Mayor, or
his or her designee(s), an emergency energy plan adopted by the company no
later than 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, or within 24
hours of the time the plan is adopted, whichever is later.
      (3)   The electric utility company shall be required to examine and
update as needed its emergency energy plan at least annually.
      (4)   The electric utility company shall notify the foregoing public
official(s) in writing of any material revisions to its plan and the rationale
for the revisions within five business days of the time the revisions are made.
   (B)   The Emergency Energy Plan shall include, at a minimum, information
detailing:
      (1)   The circumstances that would require the implementation of the
plan;
      (2)   Stages of the emergency energy plan;
      (3)   The approximate geographic limits of each outage area provided for
in the emergency energy plan;
      (4)   The approximate number of customers within each outage area
provided for in the emergency energy plan;
      (5)   The police facilities, fire stations, hospitals, nursing homes,
schools, day care centers, senior citizen centers, community health centers,
dialysis centers, community mental health centers, correctional facilities,
stormwater and wastewater treatment or pumping facilities, and water-pumping
stations that have been identified by the village and persons on life-support
systems that are known to the company, that could be effected by controlled
rotating interruptions of electric service under the emergency energy plan; and
      (6)   The anticipated sequence and duration of intentional interruptions
of electric service to each outage area under the emergency energy plan.
(Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999)
§ 37.44  REVIEW OF PLAN.
   (A)   Upon submittal of the emergency energy plan to the village, the
village shall review the plan in order to determine if the emergency energy
plan is complete and to assure appropriate coordination with public health and
safety agencies. The village may reject the Emergency Energy Plan if it does
not contain all the information required in §
37.43 above, in which case the village shall notify the electric utility
company in writing of the rejection and the reasons therefor. The electric
utility company shall thereafter submit a complete emergency energy plan to the
village no later than 30 days after the notice is sent by the village.
   (B)   The village and the electric utility company shall work cooperatively
to:
      (1)   Identify customers and facilities for which a controlled rotating
interruption of electric service would require heightened response by village
public health and safety agencies;
      (2)   Mitigate the potential impact of the plan on public health and
safety; and
      (3)   Mitigate the potential impact of the plan on the duties of the
village's public health and safety agencies.
(Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999)
§ 37.45  IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN.
   (A)   Whenever an electric utility company determines that it may be
necessary to implement a controlled rotating interruption of electrical service
due to the demand for electricity exceeding, or being at significant risk of
exceeding, the supply of electricity available to the electric utility company,
the electric utility company shall do the following:
      (1)   Take appropriate action in preparation for implementing a
controlled rotating interruption of electric service and notify the appropriate
electric utility company personnel; and
      (2)   Notify the Mayor, or his or her designee(s), that the electric
utility company will be implementing its emergency energy plan. The
notification shall be made pursuant to a notification procedure approved by the
Mayor after consultation with the Board of Trustees. The Mayor and Board of
Trustees may waive the notice requirement to accommodate exigent circumstances.
   (B)   Subsequent to providing the notice as required above, an electric
utility company shall reasonably and separately advise the designated village
officials when it implements each step of the emergency energy plan. The steps
shall include the following:
      (1)   A request for emergency help from neighboring utilities;
      (2)   A declaration of a control area emergency; and
      (3)   A public appeal for voluntary curtailment of electricity use.
   (C)   The electric utility company shall give a separate notice to the
Mayor, or his or her designee(s), immediately upon the determination that there
will be a controlled rotating interruption of electric service pursuant to the
emergency energy plan. The notification shall include the areas to be
interrupted: the sequence and estimated duration of the service outage for each
area; and the affected feeders and number of affected customers in each area.
Whenever practical. the notification shall be made at least two hours prior to
the time of the outages, and in no case shall the notification be made less
than 30 minutes prior to the outages, if the company is aware that controlled
rotating interruptions may be required.
   (D)   Notification required by this section shall be in addition to any
notification requirements set forth in any applicable franchise agreement or
franchise ordinance, or as may be required by applicable federal or state law
or regulation.
(Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999)
§ 37.46  CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to preclude or interfere
with the implementation by an electric utility company of measures necessary to
assure the provision of adequate, efficient, reliable and environmentally safe
service, as required by the Illinois Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5,
§§ 1-101 et seq).
   (B)   Nothing set forth in this subchapter shall be deemed to modify the
terms of any existing franchise agreement or franchise ordinance otherwise
applicable to any electric utility company, or to excuse any performance
required by the agreement or ordinance, or to limit any authority that may be
exercised pursuant to the agreement or ordinance, or to limit any remedy that
may be available under the agreement or ordinance.
(Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999)
§ 37.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any electric utility company that knowingly violates §§
37.40 through
37.46 or any rules promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $2,500 and not more than $10,000 for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   The village may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an
injunction or order to compel the other party to comply with the provisions of
§§
37.40 through
37.46.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
37.01 or executive order issued pursuant thereto shall be guilty of an offense
against the Village of Calumet Park, and shall be punishable by a fine pursuant
to §
10.99.
(Ord. 68-61, passed 4-26-1968; Ord. 99-722, passed 4-22-1999; Ord. 20-1231,
passed 4-23- 2020; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   WATER SYSTEM; RATES
         
52.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Water sold for sprinkling purposes
   
50.02   Furnishing heat; requirements
   
50.03   Prohibiting groundwater as potable water supply
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  WATER SOLD FOR SPRINKLING PURPOSES.
   (A)   (1)   From May 15 to September 15 of each year, both inclusive, it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use water sold by the
Village of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois, for sprinkling purposes between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
      (2)   From May 15 to September 15 of each year, both inclusive, it shall
be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation having an odd-numbered address
to use water sold by the Village of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois, for
sprinkling purposes on even-numbered days of the month.
      (3)   From May 15 to September 15 of each year, both inclusive, it shall
be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation having an even-numbered address
to use water sold by the Village of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois, for
sprinkling purposes on odd-numbered days of the month.
   (B)   Whenever the water pressure, as taken at 12409 S. Throop Street,
Calumet Park, Illinois, shall fall lower than 25 pounds per square inch the
Mayor, at his or her discretion, may prohibit the use of water for sprinkling,
car washing, pool filling and other outdoor free flow use of water, for any
period deemed necessary.
   (C)   Enforcement of this section shall be exercised by the Police
Department of the Village of Calumet Park, Illinois.
(Ord. 79-305, passed 7-30-1979; Ord. 80-336, passed 7-10-1980; Ord. 90-552,
passed 6-28-1990)
§ 50.02  FURNISHING HEAT; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All apartment buildings containing two or more units, or all
residential units containing two or more units for occupancy by families, shall
be furnished heat so as to maintain a temperature therein of not less than 65°F
from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and 60°F from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. from October
1 of each year to June 1 of succeeding year.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner or any person
designated or authorized by him or her to enforce the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 77-274, passed 11-22-1977)
§ 50.03  PROHIBITING GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited. Except for
such uses or methods in existence before the effective date of this section,
the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from within the
corporate limits of the Village of Calumet Park as a potable water supply, by
the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes the Village of Calumet Park.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Ord. 13-1072, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
50.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each hour of the day in which a violation occurs shall be construed as a
separate violation.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of any violation of §
50.02 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day an offense is committed shall be considered a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.03 shall be subject to a fine for each violation pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 77-274, passed 11-22-1977; Ord. 79-305, passed 7-30-1979; Ord. 80-336,
passed 7-10-1980; Ord. 90-552, passed 6-28-1990; Ord. 13-1072, passed 1-10-
2013; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER SYSTEM; RATES
Section
General Provisions; Rates
   
51.01   Establishment
   
51.02   Turning on water; restriction
   
51.03   Application to have water turned on
   
51.04   Plumbing requirements
   
51.05   Permit required
   
51.06   Water restriction
   
51.07   Unlawful to tamper with, alter or injure
   
51.08   Installation
   
51.09   Specifications
   
51.10   Repairs
   
51.11   Excavations
   
51.12   Service boxes
   
51.13   Adequate water meter
   
51.14   Location
   
51.15   Reading of water meters
   
51.16   Complaint; testing
   
51.17   Rates
   
51.18   Bills
   
51.19   Construction
   
51.20   Water shut off
   
51.21   Unpaid bills
   
51.22   Unpaid bills; lien
   
51.23   Minimum charges
   
51.24   Additional requirement
Protecting Public Water Supply
   
51.35   Installation
   
51.36   Prohibition
   
51.37   Duty of Superintendent of Public Works
   
51.38   Right to enter
   
51.39   Water service; shut-off and the like
   
51.40   Consumer cost
   
51.41   Rules and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS; RATES
§ 51.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a water system in the Village of Calumet Park,
County of Cook and State of Illinois.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.02  TURNING ON WATER; RESTRICTION.
   No water from the village water supply shall be turned on for service into
any premises by any person but the Superintendent of Public Works or some
person authorized by him or her to perform this service.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.03  APPLICATION TO HAVE WATER TURNED ON.
   Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the Water
Department, and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of
the village water supply by the applicant. A fee of $200 shall be paid for
turning on water. This fee shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer
to the Illinois Municipal League’s Municipal Price Index (“MPI”), using 2008 as
the base value of the MPI, with any such adjustment being calculated as of the
start of each calendar year and rounded to the nearest $5 amount.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971; Ord. 10-1004, passed 1-14-2010; Ord. 14-1104,
passed 3-27-2014)
§ 51.04  PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS.
   No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the plumbing
does not comply with the ordinances of the village; provided, that water may be
turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.05  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Connections.
      (1)   No connections with a water main shall be made without a permit
being issued and 24-hours' notice having been given to the Superintendent of
Public Works.
      (2)   All such connections shall be made and all such work done at the
expense of the applicant who shall also furnish materials necessary for the
work.
      (3)   All such connections shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent and no connections shall be covered until the work has been
inspected by him or her.
      (4)   Applications for the connections must be made to the Water
Department and a fee as otherwise provided shall be paid.
   (B)   Conditions of permit. As a condition of receiving an allocation of
Lake Michigan water, the Public Works Department requires that all permittees
comply with the following:
      (1)   (a)   That all new water services be metered; and
         (b)   That all existing unmetered services be metered as part of any
major remodeling.
      (2)   That (where applicable to permittee) permittee will modify local
plumbing codes or ordinances to require:
         (a)   The installation of the following water efficient plumbing
fixtures (based on a pressure at the fixture of 40 to 50 psi) in all new
construction and in all repair and/or replacement of fixtures or trim:
 
Fixtures                        Maximum Flow
Water closets, tank type        3.5 gal. per flush
Water closets, flushometer type 3.0 gal. per flush
Urinals, tank type              3.0 gal. per flush
Shower heads                    3.0 GPM
Lavatory, sink faucets          3.0 GPM
 
         (b)   The installation of closed system air conditioning in all new
construction and in all new remodeling;
         (c)   That all lavatories for public use in new construction or
remodeling be equipped with metering or self-closing faucets;
         (d)   That all newly constructed or remodeled car wash installation be
equipped with a water recycling system; and
         (e)   Restrictions on non-essential outside water used to prevent
excessive, wasteful use. As a minimum, unrestricted lawn sprinkling will not be
allowed from May 15 to September 15 of each year.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971; Ord. 90-546, passed 5-24-1990)
§ 51.06  WATER RESTRICTION.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
village supply to any premises other than that for which application has been
made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.07  UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH, ALTER OR INJURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the village to tamper
with, alter or injure any part of the village waterworks or supply system or
any meter.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.08  INSTALLATION.
   All service pipes from the mains to the premises shall be installed by, and
at the cost of, the owner of the property to be served or the applicant for the
service. The installation shall be under the inspection of the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.09  SPECIFICATIONS.
   No service shall be installed unless it conforms to specifications and
approved thereby, a copy of which specification shall be kept on file by the
Village Clerk and shall be open to inspection by any person interested.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.10  REPAIRS.
   All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of the buildings shall be
made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served. The village
may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes and if this is done the
cost of the repair work shall be repaid to the village by the owner of the
premises served.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.11  EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made
in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to the making of
excavations in streets. Provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any
service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drain pipe or
sewer pipe.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.12  SERVICE BOXES.
   (A)   Shut off boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe,
and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practicable.
   (B)   These boxes shall be so located so that they are easily accessible and
shall be protected from frost.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.13  ADEQUATE WATER METER.
   (A)   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an
adequate water meter furnished by the village but paid for by the consumer;
provided, that the water service may be supplied by the village at a flat rate
of charge until the meter may be installed.
   (B)   Before any premises are occupied by a person, a water meter shall be
installed therein as herein required or application made for such water service
at the flat rate of charge until the meter can be installed or no water shall
be furnished on the premises.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.14  LOCATION.
   (A)   Meters shall be installed in a location where they will be of easy
access.
   (B)   All meters must at all times be kept accessible to the village for
examination or inspection.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.15  READING OF WATER METERS.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall read or cause to be read every
water meter used in the village at such times as are necessary that the bills
may be sent out at the proper time.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.16  COMPLAINT; TESTING.
   Any municipal water meter shall be taken out and tested upon complaint of
the consumer upon payment of a fee of $2. If upon the test the meter is within
3% of being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.17  RATES.
   (A)   All property upon which any building has been or may hereafter be
erected except commercial or industrial property, having a connection with any
existing mains or pipes or which may hereafter be constructed and used in
connection with the village water system, shall pay the following rates bi-
monthly:
 
Beginning:  February 20, 2013
Minimum:  6,000 gallons/two months
$4.75 per 1,000 gallons
The minimum bi-monthly charge shall be 6,000 gallons times the current water
rate.
 
Every subsequent year, starting February 20, 2014, the water rate will be
increased $1.00 per 1,000 gallons per year until the Water Fund is self-
sufficient and has paid off its General Fund debts. After the Water Fund is
self-sufficient and has paid off its General Fund debts, the per usage fee
shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal
League's Municipal Price Index (MPI), with any such adjustment being calculated
as of the start of each May 1st and rounded to the nearest 25-cent amount.
   (B)   All property upon which any building has been or may hereafter be
erected or used for commercial or industrial purposes, having a connection with
any existing mains or pipes or which may hereafter be constructed and used in
connection with the village water system, shall pay the following rates
monthly:
 
Beginning:  February 20, 2013
Minimum:  3,000 gallons/month
$5.00 per 1,000 gallons
The minimum bi-monthly charge shall be 3,000 gallons times the current water
rate.
 
Every subsequent year, starting February 20, 2014, the water rate will be
increased $1.00 per 1,000 gallons per year until the Water Fund is self-
sufficient and has paid off its General Fund debts. After the Water Fund is
self-sufficient and has paid off its General Fund debts, the per usage fee
shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal
League's Municipal Price Index (MPI), with any such adjustment being calculated
as of the start of each February 1st and rounded to the nearest 25-cent amount
per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971; Ord. 07-950, passed 12-13-2007; Ord. 07-952,
passed 12-13-2007; Ord. 10-1003, passed 1-14-2010; Ord. 11-1036, passed 4-14-
2011; Ord. 13-1073, passed 2-14-2013)
§ 51.18  BILLS.
   (A)   Bills for industrial, commercial or business uses and on apartments
shall be sent out monthly.
   (B)   Bills for residential meters of one inch or smaller shall be sent out
quarterly and the minimum charge shall be $5.94 per quarter (10% of the amount
of the bill shall be charged in addition for late payments).
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.19  CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   During the construction of any building and before any water is
installed as herein provided, the contractor so constructing the building may
be permitted to use the village water supply by making application therefor,
and paying the flat fee prescribed by the Village Council.
   (B)   When the ownership of property changes and water rates are unpaid, it
shall be the duty of the owner acquiring such premises to pay all those unpaid
charges and he or she shall be liable therefor.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.20  WATER SHUT OFF.
   (A)   The water supply may be shut off from any premises for which the water
bill or other village fee remains unpaid.
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills or when a violation of this
chapter occurs only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on
disputed bills or other disputed violations of this chapter. The village's form
for application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to
the title, address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge
of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill and that all violations of this chapter are to be rectified
in a certain time period; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date or a
violation is not rectified, a second bill or notice of violation will be mailed
containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid or the violation is not
rectified within ten days of the mailing of the second bill or notice, service
will be discontinued for nonpayment or failure to rectify the violation; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill or a
violation of this chapter shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or
she may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or
her choosing and may present orally or in writing his or her complaint and
contentions to the village official in charge of utility billing.  This
official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service not be
discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination of the
customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days and the
violation has not been rectified within 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills or failure to rectify a
violation, service will be reinstated only after all bills for service then due
have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in the sum of $20.
   (C)   No sooner than five business days after a water bill becomes due, a
notice of delinquency shall be sent to the water customer. The customer will be
charged a $25 fee for this service. This fee shall be annually indexed by the
Village Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal League's Municipal Price Index
(MPI), using 2008 as the base value of the MPI, with any such adjustment being
calculated as of the date start of each calendar year and rounded to the
nearest five dollar amount. The notice shall contain the total amount, which is
due within ten business days of the date of the notice to avoid the termination
of water service.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971; Ord. 03-817, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. 10-1001,
passed 1-14-2010)
§ 51.21  UNPAID BILLS.
   (A)   Charges for water shall be lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid 60 days after it
shall have been rendered, the Clerk may file with the Recorder of Cook County,
a statement of lien claim.
   (B)   This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the village claims a
lien of this amount as well as for all charges for water served subsequent to
the period covered by the bill.
   (C)   The failure of the Clerk to record the lien claim or to mail the
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as mentioned in the
following section.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.22  UNPAID BILLS; LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens.
   (B)   The foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the village.
   (C)   The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
the proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters, against any property for which a water bill has remained
unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 51.23  MINIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   In addition to all other charges for water, the following charges
shall also be made:
 
Charges            Unit
$1 per unit        For each unit of an apartment building
$1 per mobile home For each mobile home in a trailer park
 
   (B)   These charges shall be made monthly and shall be added to and be in
addition to the charges provided for under §
51.17 above.
(Ord. 71-140, passed 10-14-1971; Ord. 72-144, passed 1-13-1972)
§ 51.24  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any residential building with water meters installed before 1999 shall
be replaced no later than January, 2007.
   (B)   Installation of a new automatic water meter reading system (AMR) and
residential water meters shall be installed at no charge to the homeowner.
   (C)   Every applicable homeowner shall allow an AMR installer entry to the
meter area for the purpose of installing an AMR system.
   (D)   The water supply shall be shut off from any premises for which an AMR
installer has been denied access after 90-days' notice of intent to install the
new water meter system.
   (E)   Water service will not be restored to the premises until installation
of the AMR system.
(Ord. 04-857, passed 10-14-2004)
PROTECTING PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY
§ 51.35  INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the Village of Calumet Park shall be
installed in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   (B)   That, if in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the
judgment of the Superintendent of Public Works, an approved backflow prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the
Superintendent of Public Works will give notice to the water customer to
install such an approved device immediately.
   (C)   The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable
local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of the approved
devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code,
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
(Ord. 92-581, passed 3-12-1992)
§ 51.36  PROHIBITION.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the Village of Calumet Park may enter the supply or distribution system of
the municipality, unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and
the method of connection and use of that supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Ord. 92-581, passed 3-12-1992)
§ 51.37  DUTY OF SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other
properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply may exist.
   (B)   These surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public
record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as often as the
Superintendent of Public Works shall deem necessary. Records of the surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(Ord. 92-581, passed 3-12-1992)
§ 51.38  RIGHT TO ENTER.
   (A)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of Village of Calumet Park for
the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that
the Public Works Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the Village of Calumet Park
for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding
the required cross-connection control inspection.
   (B)   On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Superintendent of Public Works any information which he or
she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on the
property.
   (C)   The refusal of that information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Public Works, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 92-581, passed 3-12-1992)
§ 51.39  WATER SERVICE; SHUT-OFF AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills or when a violation of this
chapter occurs only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on
disputed bills or other disputed violations of this chapter. The village's form
for application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to
the title, address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge
of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill and that all violations of this chapter are to be rectified
in a certain time period; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date or a
violation is not rectified, a second bill or notice of violation will be mailed
containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid or the violation is not
rectified within ten days of the mailing of the second bill or notice, service
will be discontinued for nonpayment or failure to rectify the violation; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill or a
violation of this chapter shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or
she may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or
her choosing and may present orally or in writing his or her complaint and
contentions to the village official in charge of utility billing.  This
official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service not be
discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination of the
customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days and the
violation has not been rectified within 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills or failure to rectify a
violation, service will be reinstated only after all bills for service then due
have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in the sum of $60
   (B)   Water service to the property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee as set out in division (A) above
is paid to the Village of Calumet Park.
   (C)    Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Public Works is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Public Works or the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
   (D)   Neither the Superintendent of Public Works, nor the Village of Calumet
Park nor its agents or assigns shall be liable to any purchasers from the
Village of Calumet Park for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may
result from termination of said purchaser's water supply in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
(Ord. 92-581, passed 3-12-1992)
§ 51.40  CONSUMER COST.
   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 92-581, passed 3-12-1992)
§ 51.41  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In order to carry out the purposes of this subchapter, the following rules
and regulations are adopted.
   (A)   Cross-connection control; general policy.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
         (a)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
         (b)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
         (c)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
      (2)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all
premises served by the public potable water supply system of the Village of
Calumet Park.
      (3)   Policy.
         (a)   The property owner or official custodian shall be responsible
for protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to
backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection.
         (b)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Public Works or his
or her authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent
of Public Works shall give notice to the consumer to install the approved
backflow prevention device at each service connection to the premises.
         (c)   The consumer shall immediately install the approved device or
devices at his or her own expense; failure, refusal or inability on the part of
the consumer to install the device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until the device or
devices have been installed.
         (d)   The consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance,
testing and repair as required in division (E)(5)(d) below for a period of at
least five years. The Superintendent of Public Works may require the consumer
to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the Village of Calumet Park
to assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be
required.
         (e)   All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a cross-
connection control device inspector certified by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENCY.  Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      APPROVED.  Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the
Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
      AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM.  Any water source or system on or available to
the premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
      BACKFLOW.  The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.  Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      CONSUMER or CUSTOMER.  The owner, official custodian or person in control
of any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water
system.
      CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM.  Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER'S WATER
SYSTEM.
      CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of
any substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
      CROSS-CONNECTION.  Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
         (a)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION.  A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
         (b)   INDIRECT CROSS CONNECTION.  A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
      DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY.  An assembly composed of single,
independently acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE
CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of
the assembly and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each
check valve.
      FIXED PROPER AIR GAP.  The unobstructed vertical distance through the
free atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of
the receptacle.
      HEALTH HAZARD.  Any condition, device or practice in a water system or
its operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word SEVERE as used to qualify health hazard.  A hazard
to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
      INSPECTION.  A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically
all materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations
of a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
      NON-POTABLE WATERS.  Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary
use as determined by the requirements of state regulations.
      PLUMBING.  The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
      POLLUTION.  The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
      POTABLE WATER.  Water which meets the requirements of state regulations
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
      POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION.  A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
      PROCESS FLUID(S).  Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
         (b)   Process waters;
         (c)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system
which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
         (d)   Cooling waters;
         (e)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
         (f)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
         (g)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.  All mains, pipes and structures through which water
is obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A public water supply is either a
"community water supply" or a "non-community water supply".
      REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.  A device
containing a minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and
at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be
less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
      SERVICE CONNECTION.  The opening, including all fittings and
appurtenances, at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
      SURVEY.  The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
      SYSTEM HAZARD.  A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
or degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
      USED WATER.  Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
      WATER PURVEYOR.  The owner or official custodian of a public water
system.
   (C)   Water system.
      (1)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
      (2)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Public
Works up to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
      (3)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
      (4)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's
water system.
      (5)   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the
facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public
water supply distribution system to points of use.
   (D)   Cross-connection prohibited.
      (1)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
      (2)   (a)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
         (b)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
   (E)   Survey and investigations.
      (1)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to
the approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of
the presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises,
and testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within
the consumer's premises.
      (2)   On request by the Superintendent of Public Works, or his or her
authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the
piping system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The
consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent
of Public Works for the verification of information submitted by the inspection
consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection
inspection results.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 225, Act
320, § 3.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
         (a)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
         (b)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions; and
         (c)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time
of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      (5)   Testing and records:
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer;
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with state law;
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs; and
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and dated completed.
   (F)   Where protection is required.
      (1)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections
to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency's regulations 35 III. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Public Works, actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply system exist.
      (2)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Public
Works and the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
         (b)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Public Works.
         (c)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment
of the Superintendent of Public Works and/or the Cross-Connection Control
Device Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which
make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
         (d)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
         (e)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
      (3)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections
to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Adm. Code 890
and the Agency's regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an approved
backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to a
consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the following
types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Public Works determines that
no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
         (b)   Laboratories;
         (c)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
         (e)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants;
         (g)   Metal plating industries;
         (h)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (i)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         (j)   Car washes;
         (k)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
         (l)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
   (G)   Type of protection required.
      (1)   The type of protection required under divisions (F)(1), (2) and (3)
above shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
         (a)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard;
         (b)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that
could cause a system or health hazard; or
         (c)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
      (2)   The type of protection required under divisions (F)(4) and (5) of
these regulations shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
      (3)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used
for a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers
shall be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply
when:
         (a)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals;
         (b)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
         (c)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source; or water can
be pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; and/or
         (d)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced
into the fire safety system.
      (4)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
   (H)   Backflow prevention devices.
      (1)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules
and regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control of the University of Southern California, American Water
Works Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American
National Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation
to be in compliance with applicable industry specification.
      (2)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with
the manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer
of the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
   (I)   Inspection and maintenance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
         (a)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by
passed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
         (b)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
         (c)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall
be tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
      (2)   (a)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved
by the Agency as competent to service the device.
         (b)   Proof of approval shall be in writing.
      (3)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
      (4)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include;
         (a)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
         (b)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
         (c)   Test results;
         (d)   Repairs or servicing required;
         (e)   Repairs and date completed; and
         (f)   Servicing performed and date completed.
      (5)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of
the consumer without delay as required by division (I)(1) above.
      (6)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (J)   Booster pumps.
      (1)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Public Works, at least once a year, that the device is
operable.
   (K)   Violations.
      (1)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Public Works, or if it is found that the backflow prevention
device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these
regulations is not installed and maintained in working order.
      (2)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public
Works, and the required reconnection fee is paid.
      (3)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public
Works.
      (4)   Neither the Superintendent of Public Works, nor the Village of
Calumet Park, nor its agents or assigns shall be liable to any purchasers from
the Village of Calumet Park for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may
result from termination of the purchaser's water supply in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter, whether or not the termination of the water supply
was with or without notice.
      (5)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
      (6)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violation.
      (7)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village by reason of the violation,
whether the same was caused before or after notice.
(Ord. 92-581, passed 3-12-1992)
CHAPTER 52:  GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
General Regulations
   
52.01   Duty of owners and occupants
   
52.02   Receptacles; containers
   
52.03   Grass clippings, leaves and the like
   
52.04   Obstructions
   
52.05   Storage; accumulation
   
52.06   Dumping, burning and the like
   
52.07   Collection
   
52.08   Placement of branches, trees and logs
   
52.09   Depositing rubbish
   
52.10   Other trash pickup; designated days
   
52.11   Special pickups
Fees for Removal of Garbage and Rubbish
   
52.25   Public Works Director
   
52.26   Fees
   
52.27   Late charge
   
52.28   Failure to pay
   
52.29   Funds collected 
   
52.30   Application
Dumpster Use
   
52.45   Definitions
   
52.46   Dumpster license
   
52.47   Dumpster identification
   
52.48   Emptying and cleaning of dumpsters
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.01  DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, his or her agent, or occupant of
any house, building, apartment or dwelling, occupied by not more than two
families, to maintain in good order at all times, receptacles for garbage and
similar refuse.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner, his or her agent or occupant of:
      (1)   Any commercial or industrial establishment; and
      (2)   All apartments or other buildings occupied by more than two family
units; to remove or cause to be removed, at his or her own expense, all waste,
at least once every seven days, or as often as necessary, to protect the health
and safety of the village inhabitants; the removal to be performed by
scavengers or other such removal firms licensed and approved by the Village of
Calumet Park.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner, his or her agent or occupant of:
      (1)   Any commercial or industrial establishment; and
      (2)   All apartments or other buildings occupied by more than two family
units; to maintain all trash receptacles or containers so that each and every
receptacle or container has a top or lid, and shall keep all garbage and/or
refuse completely inside the receptacle or container with the top or lid
securely in place.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982; Ord. 02-780, passed 2-28-2002)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02  RECEPTACLES; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The receptacles or containers shall be made of metal with close-
fitting lids or covers and shall hold not less than 20-gallon capacity nor
exceed 55-gallon capacity.
   (B)   A sufficient number of the receptacles shall be provided for an
accumulation of refuse of at least seven days. This provision shall apply to
every person or persons designated in §
52.01(A) above. A person or persons designated in §
52.01(B) above may use the containers or receptacles provided by the licensed
and approved scavenger or refuse removal firms, provided the containers meet
village approved health, safety and/or industry standards.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03  GRASS CLIPPINGS, LEAVES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Separate plastic or vinyl bags or other suitable waterproof containers
must be provided for grass clippings, leaves, hedge trimmings and similar
loppings.
   (B)   The containers must be securely wrapped so as not to be blown or
scattered by the wind, rain or other elements.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Containers shall not be placed in any alley in such a way as to impede or
obstruct traffic therein, or so as to constitute a nuisance to adjacent
property or occupants thereof.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)
§ 52.05  STORAGE; ACCUMULATION.
   It shall be unlawful to store or accumulate unsightly material of any kind,
including but not limited to garbage, metals, non-functioning unlicensed motor
vehicles, trash of every kind and character on any property or lot within the
Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06  DUMPING, BURNING AND THE LIKE.
   No garbage, rubbish, waste, trash, refuse or other combustible material
shall be burned, dumped or buried on any premises within the village limits.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07  COLLECTION.
   The Public Works Superintendent shall direct the regular garbage pickup
crews to regularly and systematically collect all garbage and rubbish which is
placed in the proper containers at least once every seven days throughout the
village.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)
§ 52.08  PLACEMENT OF BRANCHES, TREES AND LOGS.
   (A)   Trees, large branches, logs and similar bulky articles which are
difficult to handle, so that the collection and disposal thereof would
constitute an unreasonable burden or interference with the normal routine of
the garbage and rubbish collection system, shall be disposed of only by special
pickup at the owner's expense.
   (B)   Articles of this type must not be placed in the alley until such time
as arrangements have been made for this special pickup.
   (C)   The Public Works Department may waive the fee or special charge, if,
in his or her opinion, this burden was created by an act of nature, unforeseen
circumstances or disaster.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09  DEPOSITING RUBBISH.
   (A)   No person shall cast, place, sweep or cause to be deposited in any
alley, garbage, rubbish or waste which could be scattered by the winds or
create a fire, vermin or other health hazard.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person except authorized sanitation crews
or removal services to disturb any refuse containers or contents thereof.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10  OTHER TRASH PICKUP; DESIGNATED DAYS.
   (A)   The Public Works Superintendent shall designate four weeks in each
year: one week in April, June, August and October when the pickup crews will
collect other trash such as discarded furniture, appliances, broken tree
branches and clothing.
   (B)   Only during the designated week should the trash be put in the alley.
   (C)   Auto parts and heavy construction materials will not be picked up at
any time.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)
§ 52.11  SPECIAL PICKUPS.
   Special pickups to be made out of the designated week shall require the
payment of a fee not to exceed the following: $15 per cubic yard for building
materials or such other amount as may be designated by the Public Works
Superintendent, not exceeding $15 per cubic yard.
(Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982)
FEES FOR REMOVAL OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
§ 52.25  PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The Public Works Director or other designated officer shall have charge of
the collection of garbage, rubbish and the like in the Village of Calumet Park.
Collection shall be made from all single-family homes within the Village of
Calumet Park at least once each week.
(Ord. 76-252, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 52.26  FEES.
   (A)   The fees to be charged therefor shall be $12.50 per month, or any part
thereof, payable bi-monthly. This fee shall be annually indexed by the Village
Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal League's Municipal Price Index (MPI), using
2008 as the base value of the MPI, with any such adjustment being calculated as
of the start of each calendar year and rounded to the nearest ten cent amount.
   (B)   Bills for the collection of garbage, rubbish and the like shall be
sent out at the same time as the Water Department bills and shall be a part
thereof.
   (C)   Every February 20, starting February 20, 2013, the refuse rate will be
increased $2.75, per month, per year, payable bi-monthly, until the Refuse Fund
is self-sufficient and has paid off its debts. After the Refuse Fund is self-
sufficient and has paid off its General Fund debts, the per usage fee shall be
annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal League’s
Municipal Price Index (MPI), with any such adjustment being calculated as of
the start of each February 20th, and rounded to the nearest 25-cent amount per
month.
(Ord. 76-252, passed 9-23-1976; Ord. 04-851, passed 5-27-2004; Ord. 10-1005,
passed 1-14-2010; Ord. 11-1037, passed 4-14-2011; Ord. 13-1075, passed 2-14-
2013)
§ 52.27  LATE CHARGE.
   A late charge of 10% of the amount of the bill shall be added onto any bill
not paid when due.
(Ord. 76-252, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 52.28  FAILURE TO PAY.
   When an occupant or owner of any premises falls to pay the fee for removal
of garbage, rubbish or the like, the Public Works Director or other designated
officer shall notify the occupant or owner of this fact and shall refuse
further collection until the required fee plus any arrearage is paid. The fact
that garbage, rubbish and the like remains on any occupant's or owner's
premises in the Village of Calumet Park in violation of this subchapter shall
be prima facie evidence that the occupant or owner of the premises is
responsible for the violation of this subchapter occurring.
(Ord. 76-252, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 52.29  FUNDS COLLECTED.
   All funds collected hereunder shall be collected by the Water Department and
are to be turned over to the Village Treasurer to become and form a part of the
general funds and are to be used for general fund purposes.
(Ord. 76-252, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 52.30  APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to garbage collection for units containing two
or less dwelling units.
(Ord. 76-252, passed 9-23-1976)
DUMPSTER USE
§ 52.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTER or ROLL-OFF DUMPSTER.  Any container used for the storage,
collection or removal of construction debris, demolition debris or other
discarded material but shall not include a refuse compactor or grease
container.
   PROVIDER.  The person who leases or otherwise provides a dumpster for
temporary use at the location requested.
(Ord. 04-844, passed 2-26-2004)
§ 52.46  DUMPSTER LICENSE.
   (A)   The provider is required to obtain a license for a dumpster in excess
of one cubic yard.
   (B)   A dumpster license is issued when a dumpster is placed on public or
private property.
   (C)   Application for the license shall be made by the provider on a form
provided by the village prior to the dumpster being placed on private property.
   (D)   A license fee shall be paid at the time of making application. The
license fee shall be $100 per dumpster.
(Ord. 04-844, passed 2-26-2004)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.47  DUMPSTER IDENTIFICATION.
   Every dumpster shall display the hauler's name or company logo, telephone
number and a unique identification number.
(Ord. 04-844, passed 2-26-2004)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.48  EMPTYING AND CLEANING OF DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   All dumpsters are required to be emptied at least once a week.
However, any dumpster filled to capacity shall be removed or emptied within 48
hours of being filled.
   (B)   Tarps must be used on dumpster or roll-off box and secured at all
times to cover contents when not in use for public safety. Dumpsters shall not
be overflowing with debris. The area surrounding each dumpster shall be
maintained free of litter.
(Ord. 04-844, passed 2-26-2004)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation, violating or failing to comply with
any provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.11, shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.30 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
52.45 through
52.48 shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and shall be punished by
a fine pursuant to §
10.99. If a violation continues, each day in violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 76-252, passed 9-23-1976; Ord. 82-386, passed 3-25-1982; Ord. 04-844,
passed 2-26-2004; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Traffic regulations
   
70.02   Parking regulations
   
70.03   Towing
   
70.04   Administrative adjudication
   
70.05   Traffic schedules
   
70.06   Parking schedules
§ 70.01  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The traffic regulations, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 68-75, passed 9-13-1968; Ord. 74-187, passed 4-11-1974; Ord. 74-190,
passed 6-13-1974; Ord. 88-507, passed 10-27-1988; Ord. 91-561, passed 3-14-
1991; Ord. 93-595, passed 1-28-1993; Ord. 96-680, passed 6-13-1995; Ord. 96-
690, passed 11-14-1996; Ord. 98-713, passed 9-10-1998; Ord. 00-736, passed 4-
13-2000; Ord. 00-749, passed 10-12-2000; Ord. 03-827, passed 10-23-2002; Ord.
02-798, passed 10-24-2002; Ord. 02-805, passed 11-26-2002; Ord. 07-941, passed
7-12-2007; Ord. 09-975, passed 3-26-2009)
§ 70.02  PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The parking regulations, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1960-0513, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 73-176, passed 11-8-1973; Ord. 87-476,
passed 3-17-1987; Ord. 87-478, passed 6-2-1987; Ord. 88-496, passed 4-19-1988;
Ord. 91-577, passed 12-26-1991; Ord. 93-599, passed 3-25-1993; Ord. 94-628,
passed 4-14-1994; Ord. 96-679, passed 6-13-1995; Ord. 07-936, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 70.03  TOWING.
   The towing provisions, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 84-425B, passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 00-731, passed 1-13-2000; Ord. 10-1010,
passed 5-27-2010)
§ 70.04  ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION.
   The administrative adjudication regulations, as amended, are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 96-683, passed 6-13-1996)
§ 70.05  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES.
   The traffic schedules, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1956-0727, #461, passed 7-27-1956; Ord. 1957-1025, #2, passed 10-25-1957;
Ord. 1958-0711, passed 7-11-1958; Ord. 1961-0714, #506, passed 7-14-1961; Ord.
1961-0714, #508, passed 7-14-1961; Ord. 1961-0825, passed 8-25-1961; Ord. 1962-
0727, passed 7-27-1962; Ord. 1963-011, passed 1-11-1963; Ord. 1963-0614, passed
6-14-1963; Ord. 1963-1025, passed 10-25-1963; Ord. 1963-1025, #2, passed 10-25-
1963; Ord. 1963-1025, #3, passed 10-25-1963; Ord. 1964-1028, #1, passed 10-28-
1964; Ord. 1964-1028, #2, passed 10-28-1964; Ord. 65-1, passed 6-11-1965; Ord.
65-4, passed 10-8-1965; Ord. 65-5, passed 10-8-1965; Ord. 65-7, passed 10-8-
1965; Ord. 65-8, passed 10-8-1965; Ord. 65-9, passed 10-8-1965; Ord. 65-10,
passed 10-8-1965; Ord. 65-11, passed 10-8-1965; Ord. 65-12, passed 10-8-1965;
Ord. 65-13, passed 10-8-1965; Ord. 65-15, passed 1-28-1966; Ord. 67-46, passed
7-28-1967; Ord. 67-51, passed 11-10-1967; Ord. 69-99, passed 7-16-1969; Ord.
69-110, passed 10-15-1969; Ord. 69-111, passed 11-5-1969; Ord. 70-122, passed
9-24-1970; Ord. 71-137, passed 7-8-1971; Ord. 73-160, passed 2-8-1973; Ord. 73-
163, passed 4-12-1973; Ord. 74-198, passed 8-9-1974; Ord. 75-255, passed 12-23-
1975; Ord. 76-236, passed 5-27-1976; Ord. 76-254, passed 10-14-1976; Ord. 77-
270, passed 9-22-1977; Ord. 77-275, passed 12-22-1977; Ord. 78-281, passed 6-
18-1978; Ord. 79-296, passed 6-28-1979; Ord. 79-303, passed 7-30-1979; Ord. 80-
327, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. 81-349, passed 6-11-1981; Ord. 81-351, passed 6-25-
1981; Ord. 81-368, passed 9-10-1981; Ord. 81-371, passed 10-8-1981; Ord. 82-
384, passed 3-25-1982; Ord. 83-401, passed 1-13-1983; Ord. 89-530, passed 9-28-
1989; Ord. 89-536, passed 12-28-1989; Ord. 91-570, passed 10-10-1991; Ord. 94-
627, passed 4-14-1994; Ord. 94-630, passed 7-14-1994; Ord. 94-643, passed 8-11-
1994; Ord. 03-824, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 05-892, passed 8-11-2005; Ord. 05-
895, passed 10-27-2005; Ord. 07-935, passed 5-10-2007; Ord. 07-945, passed 10-
11-2007; Ord. 07-946, passed 10-11-2007; Ord. 09-984, passed 7-9-2009; Ord. 09-
985, passed 7-9-2009)
§ 70.06  PARKING SCHEDULES.
   The parking schedules, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1957-0426, passed 4-26-1957; Ord. 1958-0926, passed 9-26-1958; Ord. 1961-
0714, #507, passed 7-14-1961; Ord. 1961-1110, #516, passed 11-10-1961; Ord.
1963-1011, passed 10-11-1963; Ord. 1964-1209, #2, passed 12-9-1964; Ord. 1964-
1209, #3, passed 12-9-1964; Ord. 66-14, passed 1-28-1966; Ord. 67-43, passed 2-
24-1967; Ord. 67-52, passed 11-10-1967; Ord. 68-55, passed 2-9-1968; Ord. 68-
59, passed 4-26-1968; Ord. 68-83, passed 12-13-1968; Ord. 68-84, passed 12-13-
1968; Ord. 69-85, passed 2-7-1969; Ord. 70-123, passed 10-8-1970; Ord. 71-142,
passed 11-24-1971; Ord. 74-202, passed 12-12-1974; Ord. 79-292, passed 2-8-
1979; Ord. 79-311, passed 9-27-1979; Ord. 80-335, passed 7-10-1980; Ord. 80-
341, passed 12-11-1980; Ord. 81-342, passed 1-22-1981; Ord. 81-350, passed 6-
11-1981; Ord. 83-414, passed 9-20-1983; Ord. 84-418, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 86-
463, passed 12-2-1986; Ord. 90-543, passed 4-12-1990; Ord. 90-544, passed 4-12-
1990; Ord. 93-592, passed 1-28-1993; Ord. 93-619, passed 11-23-1993; Ord. 95-
649, passed 4-13-1995; Ord. 95-650, passed 4-27-1995; Ord. 95-651, passed 4-27-
1995; Ord. 96-674, passed 4-25-1996; Ord. 98-707, passed 4-23-1998; Ord. 98-
714, passed 9-10-1998; Ord. 00-732, passed 1-13-2000; Ord. 00-734, passed 1-27-
2000; Ord. 03-832, passed 11-13-2003; Ord. 04-837, passed 1-28-2004; Ord. 07-
937, passed 5-24-2007; Ord. 07-947, passed 10-11-2007; Ord. 07-948, passed 10-
11-2007; Ord. 09-983, passed 7-9-2009)
CHAPTER 71:  AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Violations
   
71.03   Defenses
   
71.04   Notice of violation
   
71.05   Hearing
   
71.06   Non-residents
   
71.07   Final determination
   
71.08   Notice of determination of liability
   
71.09   Notice of final determination
   
71.10   Petitions to set aside determination
   
71.11   Notice of impending drivers license suspension
   
71.12   Drivers license suspension
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM. A device within the village with
one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of § 11-306 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code ("Code"), ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306, or similar
violation of the Village/Village Municipal Code.
   DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in §
11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306).
   NO TURN ON RED. Where the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and does
not enter the intersection as defined by § 1-132 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132), during the cycle of the red signal indication
unless one or more pedestrians are present, even if the motor vehicle stops at
a point past a stop line or crosswalk where a driver is required to stop, as
specified in subsection (c) of Section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11- 306(c)) or this chapter.
   RECORDED IMAGES. Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two or more photographs; two or more
microphotographs; two or more electronic images; or, a video recording showing
the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the recording,
clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor vehicle.
   TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed as such through
Article 25 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, Article 25) and
shall have the following additional powers: adopt, distribute and process
automated traffic law violation notices and other notices required by this
chapter, collect money paid as fines and penalties, operate the automated
traffic law enforcement system, and make certified reports to the Secretary of
State as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.02  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or turn on red in violation of § 11-306 of the Code (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 11-306). All violations must be reviewed and approved by a law
enforcement officer of the village.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.03  DEFENSES.
   (A)   The following may be considered defenses by the Hearing Officer for a
violation of §
71.02:
      (1)   That the motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle
were stolen before the violation occurred, and not under the control of or in
the possession of the owner at the time of the violation;
      (2)   That the driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when
the light was red either:
         (a)   In order to yield the right-of-way to an emergency vehicle; or
         (b)   As part of a funeral procession.
   (B)   To demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates were
stolen before the violation occurred and were not under the control or
possession of the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit
proof that a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates
was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.04  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in violation of §
71.02, the village shall issue a written Notice of Violation to the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by U.S. mail within 30
days after the Illinois Secretary of State notifies the village of the identity
of the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, and in no event later than 90
days following the violation. The village shall only be required to notify a
lessee if the leasing company/lessor provides the lessee's name by an affidavit
and a copy of the lease within 60 days of the notice's issuance. If the driver
information is not provided within 60 days, the leasing company/lessor may be
found liable. If any notice to an address is returned as undeliverable, a
second notice shall be sent to the last known address recorded in a United
States Post Office approved database of the owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle. The second notice shall be made by first class mail postage prepaid.
   (B)   A Notice of Violation associated with an automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by the
Traffic Compliance Administrator, who shall inspect the image and determine
whether the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of §
71.02, or whether one of the defenses enumerated in §
71.03 is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon determination that the
recorded image captures a violation and that no defense applies, the notice of
violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle owner in the manner
provided for above. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall retain a copy of
all violation notices, recorded images and other correspondence mailed to the
owner of the vehicle. Each Notice of Violation shall constitute evidence of the
facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging a
violation of the above-noted statutory and local provisions and shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses
established in this chapter.
   (C)   The Notice of Violation shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database;
      (2)   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the motor
vehicle involved in the violation;
      (3)   The violation charged;
      (4)   The location where the violation occurred;
      (5)   The date and time of the violation;
      (6)   A copy of the recorded images;
      (7)   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (14 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation;
      (8)   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
      (9)   The amount of the late fee;
      (10)   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will
result in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension
of driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
      (11)   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation;
      (12)   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the
fine or challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing;
and
      (13)   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.05  HEARING.
   (A)   The owner of a vehicle being operated in violation of §
71.02 may request a hearing by the respond-by date on the Notice of Violation
(14 days from the date of issuance), to challenge the evidence or set forth an
applicable defense. The Notice of Violation shall constitute evidence of the
facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging a
violation of §
71.02. The Notice of Violation shall be prima facie evidence of a violation,
subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in §
71.03.
   (B)   The owner's failure to appear at the hearing will result in a finding
of liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a Findings, Decision and
Order letter will be sent to the owner. The owner's failure to pay the amount
by the date specified in that letter will result in a final determination.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.06  NON-RESIDENTS.
   Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle is not a resident
of the village but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged violation, such
person may contest the charges using the same available defenses as stated
above, but rather than attend the administrative hearing, they may submit any
and all documentary evidence to the Traffic Compliance Administrator no later
than the hearing date, together with a written statement reflecting that they
are non-residents of the village. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall
forward all timely-submitted materials to the Hearing Officer for review and
determination.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.07  FINAL DETERMINATION.
   A final determination of an automated traffic law violation(s) liability
shall occur:
   (A)   Following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty after
the hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, compliance
regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability within the required
25 days and the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any administrative
review procedures hereinafter set forth; or
   (B)   Where a person fails to appear at a prior requested administrative
hearing provided to contest the alleged standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation(s) on the date and at the time and place specified in a
prior served or mailed notice, or fails to appear at the hearing for an
automated traffic law violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior mailed notice. The hearing officer's determination of vehicular
standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s)
liability shall become final upon the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust
any administrative or judicial review procedures hereinafter set forth:
      (1)   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination;
or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.08  NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY.
   A determination of automated traffic law violation liability shall occur
following failure to pay the fine or penalty, or to contest the alleged
violation within 14 days of the Notice of Violation. Where a person fails to
appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in the time and manner
specified in a prior mailed notice, the Hearing Officer will enter Findings,
Decision and Order's determination of automated traffic law violation liability
which shall become final: (a) upon denial of a timely petition to set aside
that determination, or (b) upon expiration of the period for filing such a
petition without a filing having been made. If a person appears at a hearing
and is found liable or contests the violation by mail and is found liable, the
Hearing Officer will enter Findings, Decision and Order, which is a final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability that is a final,
appealable order.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.09  NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION.
   Notice of Final Determination shall be sent following the final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability and the conclusion
of judicial review. The Notice of Final Determination shall include the
following information:
   (A)   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the
village; and
   (B)   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the Village
of Calumet Park within 14 days may result in a petition to the Circuit Court of
Cook County to have the unpaid fine rendered as a judgment or may result in the
suspension of the person’s drivers license for failure to pay fines or
penalties for five or more violation under this chapter.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.10  PETITIONS TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   A Petition to Set Aside Determination of an automated traffic law
violation must be filed with or mailed to the Traffic Control Administrator
within 14 days of the date of mailing of the Notice of Determination of
Liability. The grounds for the petition are limited to:
      (1)   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the
date of the violation notice was issued;
      (2)   The person having already paid the fine for the violation in
question; and
      (3)   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of
liability, the Hearing Officer shall review the petition to determine if cause
has been shown to set aside the determination. If cause has been shown, the
village shall forward the petitioner a new hearing date on which the petitioner
must appear to present his or her case. The village shall notify the petitioner
of the Hearing Officer's decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition
within 14 days of the village's receipt.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.11  NOTICE OF IMPENDING DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A Notice of Impending Drivers License Suspension shall be sent to the
person liable for any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on five or
more violations of this chapter. The Notice of Impending Drivers License
Suspension shall state the following information:
      (1)   The failure to pay the fine owing within 45 days of the notice's
date will result in the village notifying the Secretary of State that the
person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under § 6-306.5 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5);
      (2)   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original
ticket imposing a fine by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the
village along with a request for the copy.
   (B)   The Notice of Impending Drivers License Suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the Secretary
of State or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States Post Office approved database.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.12  DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator, by certified report, shall
request that the Secretary of State suspend the driving privileges of an owner
of a registered vehicle who has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing
as a result of five automated traffic violations. The report shall be certified
and contain the following:
      (1)   The name, last known address as recorded with the Secretary of
State, as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease, or
as recorded in a United States post office approved database if any notice sent
under this chapter is returned as undeliverable, and driver's license number of
the person who failed to pay the fine or penalty and the registration number of
any vehicle known to be registered to such person in a state;
      (2)   The name of the municipality making the report pursuant to this
section; and
      (3)   A statement that a Notice of Impending Driver's License Suspension
has been sent to the person named in the report at the address recorded with
the Secretary of State or at the last address known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice sent under this chapter is
returned as undeliverable at the last known address recorded at a United States
Post office approved database; the date on which such notice was sent; and
address to which such notice was sent.
   (B)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall notify the Secretary of
State whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the municipality determines that the
original report was in error. A certified copy of such notification shall also
be given upon request and at no additional charge to the person named therein.
   (C)   Any person receiving notice from the Secretary of State that their
driving privileges may be suspended at the end of a specified period may
challenge the accuracy of the certified report prepared by the Traffic
Compliance Administrator. The person shall, within seven days after having
received notice from the Secretary of State, request an opportunity to speak
with the Traffic Compliance Administrator to challenge the accuracy of the
certified report. If the Traffic Compliance Administrator determines that the
original report was in error due to the fact that the person challenging the
report was not the owner or lessee of the vehicle or that the person has
already paid their fine for the five or more automated traffic violations, the
Traffic Compliance Administrator shall immediately notify the Secretary of
State of such error in a subsequent certified report.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
    The owner (or lessee) of a motor vehicle is subject to a penalty pursuant
to §
10.99 per automated traffic law violation. In the event that such penalty is
not paid within 14 days after service of a Final Determination of Liability, an
additional $100 late payment penalty shall be imposed. A penalty shall not
apply if the driver of the motor vehicle received a Uniform Traffic Citation
from a police officer at the time of the violation. The village may not charge
court costs or hearing fees to persons found liable after exercising their
right to appear and contest the violation at an administrative hearing.
(Ord. 11-1048, passed 10-27-2011; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   NUISANCES
         
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   FAIR HOUSING
         
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
95.   ROBBERY ALARM SYSTEMS AND BURGLAR BARS
         
96.   PRESALE INSPECTIONS
CHAPTER 90:  NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances in General
   
90.01   Nuisance prohibited
   
90.02   Business open to the public
   
90.03   Inspections
   
90.04   Suspension, revocation of license or permit
   
90.05   Appeal
Yard Growth
   
90.15   Height of growth
   
90.16   Storage of leaves and the like
   
90.17   Negligence
   
90.18   Cost of removal
   
90.19   Unpaid balances
   
90.20   Disposal of yard waste
Noise Control; Sound Devices
   
90.30   Unlawful noise
   
90.31   Explanation of prohibited noises
   
90.32   Additional remedy
Inoperable Vehicles
   
90.45   Definition
   
90.46   Nuisance declared
   
90.47   Notice to be sent
   
90.48   Authority to remove
   
90.49   Exception
   
90.50   Fees
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
90.60   Disposal of refrigerators, freezers and the like
   
90.61   Garbage, refuse and the like
   
90.62   Outdoor burning
   
90.63   Trees
   
90.64   Use of sound devices
 
   
90.99   Penalty
NUISANCES IN GENERAL
§ 90.01  NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to cause,
permit, maintain or allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance within the
Village of Calumet Park. No commercial or residential establishment, whether or
not licensed, shall be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in
fact; and no building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof,
shall be used, kept, maintained or operated in connection with any commercial
or residential establishment so as to occasion any nuisance, or so as to be
dangerous to life or detrimental to health.
   (B)   Unsafe or unhealthful business.
      (1)   No building or structure, utilized, constructed or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation, shall evidence an unsanitary,
unsafe or dangerous condition.
      (2)   No substance, matter or thing of any kind whatever which shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
the municipality.
   (C)   Abandoned vehicles.
      (1)   No person operating a commercial or residential establishment,
whether licensed or unlicensed, shall permit one or more dismantled, wrecked,
junked or otherwise non-operating vehicle to remain on any property within the
Village of Calumet Park for a period of time longer than ten days; except that
this paragraph shall not apply with regard to any vehicles in an enclosed
building or so located upon private premises as not to be readily visible from
any public place or from any surrounding private property.
      (2)   This paragraph shall further not apply with regard to any vehicle
on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place (other than
in a residential district) and operated in a lawful manner, when the keeping or
maintenance of the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the business
enterprise or with regard to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depositary maintained in a lawful place and manner by the village or any other
public agency or entity.
   (D)   Refuse disposal.
      (1)   Refuse containers.
         (a)   The standard refuse container required by this subchapter shall
be a receptacle of not less than 20-gallon capacity, constructed of impervious
and sturdy material, with a tight-fitting cover, and equipped with handles
properly placed to facilitate handling.
         (b)   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any
building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers unless another
type of container is approved by the Clerk due to the unusual; nature of the
refuse produced by the business.
      (2)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed at his or her own cost and
expense at least once each week all refuse produced therein.
      (3)   Removal of refuse by some businesses or occupations. Every person
owning or controlling any hotel, restaurant, café, retain food establishment or
other business or occupation, where more than 32 gallons of refuse is normally
produced weekly, shall cause all substances deposited in the containers to be
removed as often as shall be necessary, including daily removal from his or her
premises, to ensure the healthful environment surrounding the establishment.
The removal shall be at his or her own expense.
(Ord. 00-746, passed 9-14-2000)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  BUSINESS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All businesses or commercial establishments licensed under this
subchapter which invite the public generally into their establishments for the
purpose of conducting business, commercial activity or any other activity
licensed under this subchapter shall be subject to the following regulations in
addition to all other applicable provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   All areas within the licensed premises where the public may enter
shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition.
   (C)   All business or commercial establishments subject to this section
shall refrain from all deceptive trade practices as defined by state or federal
law or regulation and shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations
regarding consumer protection and deceptive trade practices. In the event of
any such violation the business license of the establishment may be revoked
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises open to the public or
engaged in the transportation, processing, preparation or packaging of food or
beverages, any person whom the employer knows or should have known, based upon
reasonable observation, was afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious or infectious disease; and it shall be unlawful for any person who
know or should have known that he or she was afflicted with or a carrier of any
such disease to work in or about any such premises.
(Ord. 00-746, passed 9-14-2000)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by this subchapter, or any ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure
compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the
municipality, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to admit thereto for the
purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the municipality
who is duly authorized to make such inspection as any reasonable time that the
admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, or of
any ordinance or regulations, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the
duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any
duly authorized officer or employee of the municipality requesting the same
sufficient samples of the material or commodity for the analysis upon official
request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke under the provisions of this subchapter the license of any owner or
operator of a licensed business in the municipality who refuses to permit any
duly authorized officer or employee to make the inspection or to take an
adequate sample of the commodity, or who interferes with the officer or
employee while in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 00-746, passed 9-14-2000)
§ 90.04  SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   When the conduct or operation of any business, occupation, activity or
establishment, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall constitute a nuisance in
fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, or where the holder of any license shall have refused to allow an
inspection of his or her premises or has refused to furnish a sample of his or
her goods for testing, the Mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business and the closing of the premises until the danger no
longer exists.
   (B)   Within eight days after a license or permit is suspended, the Mayor
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license
or permit should be revoked.
   (C)   Licenses and permits issued by the municipality, unless otherwise
provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing as provided in
divisions (D) and (E) below for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of provisions of this
subchapter or other ordinances of the municipality relating to the license or
permit, the subject matter of the license or permit or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor where the conviction indicates their inability to operate a safe,
honest and legitimate business operation within the village;
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine, penalty or
charge owed to the village; and/or
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference
with a duly authorized municipal officer or employee while in the reasonable
performance of his or her duties in making the inspections, as provided in §
90.03 above. The revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable provisions of this subchapter or other ordinances of the
municipality.
   (D)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the licensee or permittee at his or her last known
address, at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing. If the
licensee shall request a continuance in the date of the hearing, the ten-day
suspension shall be in effect until two days after the final hearing date.
   (E)   At the hearing the Village Attorney shall present the complaint and
shall represent the municipality. The licensee or permittee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision.
   (F)   A stenographic or electronically recorded record of the hearing shall
be kept. The municipality shall pay the costs of attendance fees of the
reporter and the cost of the transcript, if the transcript shall be ordered by
the municipality. The licensee or permittee shall pay the cost of any
transcript ordered by him or her.
   (G)   Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, but not
later than 30 days after the conclusion, the Mayor shall file a written
decision in which he or she has summarized the evidence and has stated the
reasons for his or her decision.
(Ord. 00-746, passed 9-14-2000)
§ 90.05  APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor in regard to the
denial of an application for a business license, as provided in this
subchapter, or in connection with revocation of a license or permit, or the
closing of an establishment dangerous to the public, as provided by this
subchapter, shall have the right to appeal to the corporate authorities.
   (B)   The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Clerk, within ten days
after notice of a denial of an application or a revocation of a license or
permit, a written statement under oath setting forth specifically the grounds
for appeal.
   (C)   The corporate authorities shall thereupon set the time and place for a
hearing on the appeal and notice of the hearing shall be given to the applicant
or licensee or permittee in the same manner as provided in §
90.04 above.
   (D)   The decision of the corporate authorities on the appeal shall be
final.
(Ord. 00-746, passed 9-14-2000)
YARD GROWTH
§ 90.15  HEIGHT OF GROWTH.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or the agent of the owner, of any lot,
place or area within the Village of Calumet Park to permit or allow on the lot,
place or area, or upon any sidewalk or alleyway abutting the same, any weeds,
grass or deleterious, unhealthful growths, or other noxious matter, that may be
growing, lying or located thereon to exceed a height of eight inches.
(Ord. 94-629, passed 6-9-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16  STORAGE OF LEAVES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   Separate biodegradable paper bags or 30-gallon garbage
containers, plastic or metal with lid, must be provided for grass clippings,
leaves, hedge trimmings and similar loppings in residential areas.
      (2)   The containers or bags must be marked "yard waste" and securely
covered or tied so as not to be blown or scattered by the wind, rain or other
elements.
   (B)   Tree limbs/branches are to be cut in no more than four feet lengths
and tied. All yard waste is to be placed next to the household garbage toter as
not to block the alleyway. No yard waste of any kind is to be placed in the
household garbage toter.
(Ord. 94-629, passed 6-9-1994; Ord. 02-783, passed 3-14-2002)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  NEGLIGENCE.
   If any owner, or the agent of the owner, of any lot, place or area within
the Village of Calumet Park fails, neglects or refuses to cut, destroy and/or
remove weeds, grass or deleterious, unhealthful growths or other noxious
matter, found growing, lying or located on the owner's property after citations
are issued, the corporate authority of the Village of Calumet Park shall cause
the cutting, destroying and/or removal of the seeds, grass or deleterious,
unhealthful growths or other noxious matter.
(Ord. 94-629, passed 6-9-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18  COST OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   When the Village of Calumet Park has effected the removal of the
obnoxious growth or has paid for its removal, the cost thereof plus accrued
interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of the completion of the
work, if not paid by the owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of
the property.
   (B)   The costs shall be as follows:
 
For each 30-foot lot, or part thereof, which because of the nature and $125
extent of the weed growth must be cut by tractor
For the 30-foot lot, or part thereof, cut by manually operated mower   $135
 
(Ord. 94-629, passed 6-9-1994; Ord. 02-783, passed 3-14-2002)
§ 90.19  UNPAID BALANCES.
   (A)   (1)   In the event the full amount due the village is not paid by the
owner, the corporate authority of the Village of Calumet Park shall cause to be
recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, Illinois, a sworn statement
showing the cost and expense incurred for the work and the date, place or
property on which the work was done, and the recordation of the sworn statement
shall constitute a lien and privilege on the property, and shall remain in full
force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of
court and reasonable attorney's fees, if any, for collection, until final
payment has been made.
      (2)   Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof
shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied
with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily, and shall be
full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus
interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in
the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided as law.
   (B)   No owner or agent of the owner of any lot, place or area within the
Village of Calumet Park shall be eligible to receive any license, permit,
privilege or service from the Village of Calumet Park whenever the owner or
agent of the owner have neglected, or refused, or shall have defaulted in the
payment of the Village of Calumet Park any fee, assessment, debt or obligation
of any kind.
(Ord. 94-629, passed 6-9-1994; Ord. 02-783, passed 3-14-2002)
§ 90.20  DISPOSAL OF YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      YARD WASTE.  Grass clippings, leaves, twigs, tree limbs (less than three
inches in diameter) and dead plants and flowers of all types.
   (B)   Disposal of yard waste.
      (1)   Yard waste may not be deposited together with everyday rubbish.
      (2)   Disposal of yard waste shall be in accordance with guidelines set
forth by the Village Board.
      (3)   If yard waste is found to be mixed with other garbage or trash, the
scavenger will not pick up the container. The yard waste must be removed and
the refuse will be collected at the next regular pick-up.
   (C)   Sweeping leaves into street or gutter.
      (1)   No person shall sweep, blow or pile leaves or other yard waste
materials into the gutter or street. Any property owner that sweeps or disposes
of leaves or other yard waste materials into the gutter or street shall be
issued a ticket.
      (2)   The property owner shall then pick up all materials and dispose of
same in a proper manner as required by law.
(Ord. 02-804, passed 11-26-2002)  Penalty, see §
90.99
NOISE CONTROL; SOUND DEVICES
§ 90.30  UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others, within the limits of the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 88-506, passed 10-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31  EXPLANATION OF PROHIBITED NOISES.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely the following.
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street
or public place of the village, except as a danger warning; the creation by
means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and
the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of
time. The use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or
electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine
exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any
reason held up.
   (B)   Radios, phonographs and the like. The using, operating or permitting
to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound
in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which the machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners
thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be
plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or
vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
   (C)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is upon the public streets for
the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public
to any building or structure.
   (D)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling
or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other
type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
   (E)   Animals, birds and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird which
by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper
village authorities.
   (G)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
   (H)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   (I)   Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of a loud and
excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
   (J)   Construction or repairing of buildings.
      (1)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
on week days, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public
health and safety, and then only with a permit from the Building Inspector,
which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while
the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for periods of three
days or less while the emergency continues.
      (2)   If the Building Inspector should determine that the public health
and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or
repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways within the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and if he or she shall further determine that
loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, he or she may
grant permission for the work to be done within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., upon application being made at the time the permit for the work is
awarded or during the progress of the work.
   (K)   Schools; courts; churches. The creation of any excessive noise on any
street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while
the same are in use, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of the
institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets indicating
that the same is a school or court street.
   (L)   Hawkers; peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
   (M)   Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale.
   (N)   Metal rails, pillars and columns, transportation thereof. The
transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material,
over and along streets and other public places upon carts, trays, cars, trucks
or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the
peace and quiet of the streets or other public places.
   (O)   Pile drivers, hammers and the like. The operation between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer,
derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is
attended by loud or unusual noise.
   (P)   Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or
any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from the blower or fan
is muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden the noise.
(Ord. 88-506, passed 10-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32  ADDITIONAL REMEDY.
   As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any device,
instrument, vehicle or machinery in violation of any provision hereof and which
causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness or
which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of residents in the area
shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance and may be subject to
abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 88-506, passed 10-13-1988)
INOPERABLE VEHICLES
§ 90.45  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
(Ord. 88-497, passed 4-19-1988)
§ 90.46  NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All inoperable motor vehicles, as defined above, whether on public or
private property and in view of the general public are hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Ord. 88-497, passed 4-19-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.47  NOTICE TO BE SENT.
   (A)   The Police Department of the Village of Calumet Park shall send a
notice to the registered owner of any inoperable motor vehicle which is subject
to the provisions of this subchapter stating that the person is to dispose of
any inoperable motor vehicle under his or her control.
   (B)   The notice shall state that if the owner shall not remove the
inoperable motor vehicle within seven days of the date of the notice, the
vehicle or parts thereof shall be removed by the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 88-497, passed 4-19-1988)
§ 90.48  AUTHORITY TO REMOVE.
   The Police Department of the Village of Calumet Park is hereby authorized to
remove any inoperable motor vehicle, or part thereof which is subject to the
provisions of this subchapter, which is not removed by the owner pursuant to
the provisions of §
90.47 above.
(Ord. 88-497, passed 4-19-1988)
§ 90.49  EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any motor vehicle that is kept
within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles, over 25 years
of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 88-497, passed 4-19-1988)
§ 90.50  FEES.
   In addition to any penalty prescribed by this subchapter, any owner of an
inoperable motor vehicle which is towed by the village, after notice to the
owner, shall be liable for any towing charges and storage fees incurred for the
towing.
(Ord. 88-497, passed 4-19-1988)
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 90.60  DISPOSAL OF REFRIGERATORS, FREEZERS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave or permit
to remain outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his or her
or its control, or in any vacant lot or alley, any abandoned, unattended or
discarded refrigerator, freezer or other container which has an air-tight door
or lid, snaplock or other locking device which may not be released from the
inside, without first removing the door or lid, snaplock or other locking
device from the refrigerator, freezer or other air-tight container.
(Ord. 87-469, passed 2-3-1987)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.61  GARBAGE, REFUSE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to store or accumulate unsightly material of any
kind, including but not limited to garbage, metals, non-functioning unlicensed
motor vehicles, trash of every kind and character on any property or lot within
the village. It shall be unlawful to store or accumulate any combustible refuse
in such a way as to create a fire hazard on any property or lot within the
village.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, Building Inspector and Code Enforcement
Officer of the Village of Calumet Park are hereby authorized and directed to
notify, in writing, the owner of any such lot, place or area within the village
or the agent of the owner, to remove any such unsightly or combustible material
as herein referred to in division (A) above. The notice shall be by registered
mail, addressed to the owner, or agent of the owner, at his or her last known
address.
   (C)   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so
notified, to remove any such unsightly or combustible material as herein
referred to in division (A) above within seven days after receipt of the
written notice provided for in this section, or in the event the notice is
returned to the Village of Calumet Park because of the failure to make delivery
thereof, provided the same was properly stamped and addressed to the last known
address of the owner, or agent, the corporate authority of the Village of
Calumet Park shall cause the removal of the material or refuse.
   (D)   When the village has effected the removal of the material or refuse or
has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof plus accrued interest at the
rate of 6% per annum from the date of the completion of the work, if not paid
by the owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of the property.
   (E)   In the event the full amount due the village is not paid by the owner
within 30 days after the charge shall have been sent to the owner, the
corporate authority of the Village of Calumet Park shall cause to be recorded
with the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, Illinois, a sworn statement showing
the cost and expense incurred for the work and the date, place or property on
which the work was done, and the recordation of the sworn statement shall
constitute a lien and privilege on the property, and shall remain in full force
and effect for the amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of court
and reasonable attorneys fees, if any, for collection, until final payment has
been made. Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof
shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied
with and that the work has been done property and satisfactorily done, and
shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the
statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated
or described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as
provided by law.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any garbage or refuse of any
kind, including but not limited to cans, bottles, paper or plastic in any
street, alley, park, public way or private property within the village.
(Ord. 79-306, passed 7-30-1979)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.62  OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   The outdoor burning of leaves shall be permitted during the period
commencing the first Saturday of October to and including the last Saturday of
November of each year and shall be permitted only on Saturdays and Sundays
within the period and shall be permitted only between the hours of 11:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. on each such day.
   (B)   The outdoor burning of leaves as authorized in division (A) above
shall be permitted only upon the village streets and only at the curb lines
thereof and shall be carefully supervised and watched at all times by the
person or persons lighting the fires so as to prevent the spread of fire or
injuries to persons or property. The use of any volatile flammable liquids to
accelerate the burning of the leaves shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The outdoor burning of any refuse, trash or garbage is prohibited.
(Ord. 81-373, passed 10-22-1981)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.63  TREES.
   (A)   All trees within the Village of Calumet Park between the pavement and
the sidewalk in parkways, heretofore dedicated, are hereby declared to be
community trees of the Village of Calumet Park and all trees located in or upon
any property owned by the Village of Calumet Park, and within its corporate
limits are hereby declared to be community trees.
   (B)   No person shall cut, injure, mark or deface any community tree within
the Village of Calumet Park. No person shall cut down any community tree within
the Village of Calumet Park without first obtaining permission to do so from
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner of property to cut down all dead and
diseased trees upon his or her property. If the Street and Alley Committee of
the Board of Trustees finds that a dead tree is upon private property, or that
a diseased tree is upon private property, the Street and Alley Committee of the
Board of Trustees shall notify the owner in writing to cut down and remove the
dead or diseased tree, as the case may be. The owner shall, within 30 days
after the notification, cut down and haul away the dead or diseased trees.
Failure on the part of the owner to remove the dead or diseased tree within the
30 days shall be subject to the penalties as provided in §
90.99, and each day over the thirtieth day shall be a separate violation.
   (D)   The Street and Alley Committee of the Board of Trustees shall have
authority, if it finds any dead or diseased tree upon private property, to
order the owner to immediately cut down and haul away the dead or diseased
tree. If the Street and Alley Committee of the Board of Trustees is of the
opinion that any dead tree might be blown down and in so doing could be
dangerous to life or cause damage to property, or, in the case of a diseased
tree, that the diseased tree might cause other trees in the neighborhood, and
especially community trees, to become diseased and that the owner of the
property upon which the dead or diseased tree refused to immediately comply
with its instructions to cut down and haul away the dead or diseased tree, or
that the owner could not be found so as to personally receive the notice to
tear down the dead or diseased tree, then the Street and Alley Committee of the
Board of Trustees, in the interests of public health and safety and in order to
prevent injury or loss of life, to prevent the spread of disease, may order the
village employees to cut down and haul away the dead or diseased tree. The cost
of cutting down and hauling away the dead or diseased tree shall be paid for by
the owner of property, and shall be a lien on the property in favor of the
village until paid, and the village may enforce the collection of the lien in
accordance with the statutes made and provided.
   (E)   The service of notices as provided in this section shall be upon the
owner, if he or she resides upon the premises in question, but notices given to
any adult person in charge of the premises shall be considered notice to the
owner. Where ownership is held jointly, notice to one of the joint owners shall
be notice to all joint owners.
(Ord. 1960-0914, passed 9-14-1960)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.64  USE OF SOUND DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
      PROPERTY.  Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway. This includes, private property, sidewalks, parkways and all property
within the village not included in the definition directly below.
      STREET or HIGHWAY or PUBLIC WAY.  The entire width between the boundary
lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      VEHICLE.  A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property, or pull machinery and includes, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
   (B)   Sound device restrictions. No person shall play, use, operate or
permit to be placed, used or operated, any radio, tape recorder, cassette
player or other device for receiving broadcast sound or reproducing recorded
sound if:
      (1)   The device is located on the public way or on private property; and
      (2)   If the sound generated by the device is clearly audible to a person
with normal hearing at a distance greater than 75 feet. This section shall not
apply to any person participating in a parade or public assembly for which a
permit has been obtained pursuant to village ordinance.
(Ord. 01-765, passed 8-9-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the Village the
Chief of Police or his or her designee shall give written notice to abate to
the owner or occupant of the property upon which the nuisance exists or upon
the person causing or maintaining the nuisance. The notice to abate a nuisance
issued under the provision of this division (B) shall contain the following:
         (a)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a
stated time which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
         (b)   The location of the nuisance if the same is stationary;
         (c)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
         (d)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
         (e)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and
no request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the village will
abate the nuisance and assess the cost thereof against the person or property;
and
         (f)   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other
legal process may be served pursuant to law.
      (2)   (a)   Upon failure of the person or entity upon whom notice to
abate a nuisance was served pursuant to the provisions of this division, the
Chief of Police or the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works of the
village shall proceed to abate the nuisance and shall prepare a statement of
costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
         (b)   Any and all costs incurred by the village in the abatement of a
nuisance under the provisions of this division (B) shall constitute a lien
against the property upon which the nuisance existed, which lien shall be
filed, proven and collected as provided by law. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest at the legal
rate thereafter until satisfied.
      (3)   Unless otherwise expressly provided, any person, firm or
corporation convicted of violating any provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.05 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99, except that the third and all subsequent convictions within any 12-month
period shall be deemed to be misdemeanors, and the person, firm or corporation
guilty thereof may be fined pursuant to §
10.99 and imprisoned for a period not exceeding six months.
      (4)   Whenever a person, firm or corporation shall neglect or refuse to
procure any license required by §§
90.01 through
90.05, or otherwise violates the terms of §§
90.01 through
90.05, the Mayor is authorized to cause appropriate legal action and
proceedings to be instituted to enforce the license requirement or other terms
of §§
90.01 through
90.05.
      (5)   The Clerk shall take all necessary and appropriate action to compel
compliance with the regulatory provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.05. When necessary and expedient the Clerk may call upon the Chief of Police
to assist in the enforcement, and it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
to perform the enforcement acts as may be required of him or her. The Chief of
Police, the Superintendent of Public Works, the Health Inspector, the Alley
Inspector, and the Fire Inspector are hereby vested with police powers for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.05 and other municipal ordinances relating to the licensing of businesses
and occupations and their regulations.
      (6)   The enforcement provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.05 do not supersede or replace the enforcement provisions contained in other
related or unrelated ordinances. Nothing in §§
90.01 through
90.05 prevents the Village of Calumet Park or its designated agents from
enforcing any existing ordinances in any manner provided by law.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, or any owner of any lot, place
or area, or agent thereof, violating or failing to comply with any provision of
§§
90.15 through
90.20, shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   Any fine imposed hereunder shall be in addition to the costs
provided for in §
90.16 above.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.30 through
90.32 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
90.45 through
90.50 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense. Each day a violation of this subchapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
90.60 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day violation of §
90.60 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   Any person, firm, or corporation, violating or failing to comply with
any provision of §
90.61 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (H)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
90.62 shall upon conviction be fined pursuant to §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
90.63 shall be punished by a fine pursuant to §
10.99. Each day any violation of any provision of this section shall continue
it shall be considered a separate offense.
   (J)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
90.64 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on
each day on which a violation occurs, or continues.
      (2)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment for violation of §
90.64, the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility controlled by the village or its  agents. When such a vehicle is
towed, the provisions of the Vehicle Towing Ordinance, including notice, right
to hearing, and all other rights and obligations imposed by the terms of the
Village Towing Ordinance, will be in full force and effect.
   (K)   (1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, any person, firm or
corporation violating any of the provisions in §
90.20 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
      (2)   Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue, shall
constitute a new and separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 1960-0914, passed 9-14-1960; Ord. 79-306, passed 7-30-1979; Ord. 81-373,
passed 10-22-1981; Ord. 87-469, passed 2-3-1987; Ord. 88-497, passed 4-19-1988;
Ord. 88-506, passed 10-13-1988; Ord. 94-629, passed 6-9-1994; Ord. 00-746,
passed 9-14-2000; Ord. 01-765, passed 8-9-2001; Ord. 02-783, passed 3-14-2002;
Ord. 02-804, passed 11-26-2002; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Nuisances
   
91.03   Keeping of exotic and domestic animals
   
91.04   Keeping of numerous animals
   
91.05   Caring for animals
   
91.06   Sanitation
   
91.07   Cruelty to animals
   
91.08   Licensing of dogs and cats
   
91.09   License tags; identification
   
91.10   Restraint and confinement generally
   
91.11   Restraint of guard dogs
   
91.12   Impoundment
   
91.13   Property owners may impound
   
91.14   Disposition of large animals
   
91.15   Notice to owner and redemption
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any live creature, both domestic and wild, except humans. ANIMAL
includes fowl, fish and reptiles.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL.  Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases and
injuries.
   ANIMAL NUISANCE.  Any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining or
owning of, or failure to exercise sufficient control of an animal.
   ANIMAL SHELTER.  Any facility operated by the village or humane society for
the temporary care, confinement and detention of animals and for the humane
killing and other disposition of animals. The term shall also include any
private facility authorized by the Village President or his or her designee to
impound, confine, detain, care for or destroy any animal.
   AT HEEL.  A dog is directly behind or next to a person and obedient to that
person's command.
   AT LARGE.  That an animal is off the premises of the owner, and not on a
leash or otherwise under the immediate control of a person physically capable
of restraining the animal.
   CRUELTY.  Any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering
or death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide
proper drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a sanitary
and safe living, environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in siphoned
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused,
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal
training and hunting. CRUELTY shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
   DISPOSITION.  Adoption, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary custodianship
or placement, or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal. DISPOSITION
includes placement or sale of an animal to the general public, or removal of an
animal from any pet shop to any other location.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses, cattle,
goats, swine, fowl, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and rabbits,
gerbils, hamsters, ferrets, pheasants and other birds and animals raised and/or
maintained in confinement.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL.  Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, cayman, raccoon,
skunk, fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, member of the feline species
other than domestic cat (fells domestieus) member of the canine species other
than domestic dog (canis familiaris) or any other animal that would require a
standard of care and control greater than that required for customary household
pets sold by commercial pet shops or domestic farm animals.
   GUARD OR ATTACK DOG.  A dog trained to attack on command or to protect
persons or property, and who will cease to attack upon command.
   IMPOUNDMENT.  The taking into custody of an animal by any police officer,
animal control officers or any authorized representative thereof.
   KENNEL.  Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
dogs or cats.
   MUZZLE.  A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   OWNER.  Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of, harboring, exercising control over or having property rights
to, any animal covered by this chapter. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL.  Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans,
endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially
interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners to enjoyment of
life or property. The term PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Any animal that is repeatedly found running at large;
      (2)   Any dog or cat in any section of a park or public recreation area
unless the dog or cat is controlled by a leash or similar physical restraint;
      (3)   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any
property other than that of its owner;
      (4)   Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances
causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (5)   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (6)   Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent attraction
or contact with other animals;
      (7)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of-way;
      (8)   Any animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right-of-way;
      (9)   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
      (10)   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored; and
      (11)   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health,
safety or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single
residence or the inadequacy of the facilities.
   SANITARY.  A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize the
possibility of disease transmission.
   UNDER RESTRAINT.  That an animal is secured by a leash, lead under the
control of a person physically capable of restraining the animal and obedient
to that person's commands, or securely enclosed within the real property limits
of the owner's premises.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  Any animal that when unprovoked inflicts
bites, attacks or aggressively approaches a human being or other animal either
on public or private property; any animal with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals; any animal that has a
trait or characteristic and a generally known reputation for viciousness,
dangerousness or unprovoked attacks upon human beings or other animals, unless
handled in a particular manner with special equipment; or any animal used
primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting, or is a dog trained for
dog fighting.
   WILD ANIMAL.  Any live monkey, nonhuman primate, raccoon, skunk, fox,
leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other warm-blooded animal that can
normally be found in the wild state. The term WILD ANIMAL does not include:
domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic
cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays), farm animals, rodents, any
hybrid animal that is part wild, and captive-bred species of common cage birds.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)
§ 91.02  NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal on any property
located within the corporate limits of the village when the keeping of the
animal constitutes a public nuisance or menace to public health or safety.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  KEEPING OF EXOTIC AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor or permit at large any exotic
animal or any domestic animal other than a dog, cat, domesticated hare or
rabbit, hamster, gerbil, ferret or bird without the written permission of the
Village Board of Trustees. The permission shall be given only if it is
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Board that the animal will not
constitute a threat to public health or safety.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  KEEPING OF NUMEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep more than three dogs, cats or
combination thereof, excluding fish, within the village; except that a litter
of pups, kittens or other young animals may be kept for a period of time not
exceeding five months from birth. This section shall not apply to any
establishment where animals are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes, or
boarding.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  CARING FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal to
refuse or fail to provide the animal with sufficient wholesome and nutritious
food, potable water, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, humane
care and treatment, or to unnecessarily expose any such animal in hot, stormy,
cold or inclement weather.
   (B)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall willfully abandon the animal
on any street, road, highway or public place, or on private property when not
in the care of another person.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  SANITATION.
   (A)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow the animal to
soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk,
public way, play area or common grounds owned jointly by the members of a
homeowners or condominium association, or upon private property other than that
of the owner, unless the owner or custodian immediately removes and disposes of
all feces deposited by the animal by the following methods:
      (1)   Collection of feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and
      (2)   Removal of the bag or container to the property of the animal owner
or custodian and disposition thereafter in a manner as otherwise may be
permitted by law.
   (B)   No person owning, harboring or keeping an animal within the village
shall permit any waste matter from the animal to collect and remain on the
property of the owner or custodian, or on the property of others so as to cause
or create an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous or offensive living condition on
the owner's or custodian's property, or to abutting property of others.
   (C)   No person owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any animal shall
cause unsanitary dangerous or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or
number of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of
the facilities.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
strike, beat, abuse or intentionally run down with a vehicle any animal, or
otherwise engage in any act to cause or inflict unnecessary pain, injury,
suffering or death to the animal; except that reasonable force may be used to
drive away vicious or trespassing animals.
   (B)   (1)   No person, except a licensed veterinarian for humanitarian
purposes, shall administer poison to any animal, or knowingly leave any
poisonous substance of any kind or ground glass in any place with the intent to
injure any animal.
      (2)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to licensed
exterminators using poisons as part of a pest control program or the use of
commercial insecticides and rodent baits used to control insects and wild
rodents.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat
over the age of four months within the village unless the dog or cat is
licensed as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Application for the license shall be made by the owner on
a forth to be provided by the Village Collector within ten days after acquiring
any dog or cat over four months of age or within ten days after a dog or cat
becomes four months of age; provided that any owner moving to the village for
the purpose of establishing residence or becoming a resident as a result of any
annexation, and otherwise required to obtain a license, shall have until ten
days after moving or annexation to obtain such a license.
   (C)   Proof of rabies vaccination required. All owners applying for a
license must show to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the
animal for which the license is being obtained has been inoculated against
rabies within the last two years.
   (D)   Proof of sterilization. Any owner claiming that his or her dog or cat
has been spayed or neutered must show to the satisfaction of the licensing
authority that the operation has been performed.
   (E)   Payment of license fee. A license fee shall be paid at the time of
making application. The license fee for both dogs and cats shall be $5 for each
altered dog or cat and $20 for each unaltered dog or cat.
   (F)   Exemption from license fee. License fees shall not be required for
seeing eye dogs, government police dogs or dogs belonging to a nonresident of
the village and kept within the boundaries of the village for not longer than
30 days: provided that all dogs of nonresidents shall at the time of entry into
the village be properly vaccinated against rabies, and while kept within the
village, meet all other requirements of this chapter. Any owner claiming any of
these exemptions has the burden of proving to the satisfaction of the licensing
authority that the dog or cat in question is entitled to such exemption.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09  LICENSE TAGS; IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon payment and acceptance of the license fee, the licensing
authority shall issue a durable license tag or collar stamped with the year of
issuance and an identification number for the animal for which the license has
been obtained. Any license issued for the keeping of a dog or cat shall take
effect on the date of issuance and shall be valid for a period of one  year.
Every dog or cat for which the owner is required to obtain a license must wear
a valid license tag or collar at all times when the animal is off the premises
of its owner.
   (B)   No person may use a license for any animal other than the animal for
which the license was issued. It shall also be unlawful for any person to
remove from the neck of any dog or cat the license tag or collar issued
pursuant to this section or alter the tag in any manner.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10  RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to keep the
animal under restraint or to permit the animal to run at large upon the streets
and public ways of the village.
   (B)   Any dog, while on a street, sidewalk, public way or in any park,
public square or other public space, or upon any private property without the
consent of the owner, shall be secured by a leash of sufficient tensile
strength to restrain the particular dog or shall be at heel and securely
muzzled.
   (C)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care
and control of the animal to prevent the same from becoming a public nuisance.
   (D)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall keep an animal on a leash
unless a person is in physical control of the leash. The leash shall not be
attached to any inanimate object, including but not limited to trees, posts,
stakes and buildings.
   (E)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in such manner that the female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11  RESTRAINT OF GUARD DOGS.
   (A)   Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep the dog confined in a
confinement structure. A CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE means a securely locked pen,
kennel, structure or fence capable of containing a guard or attack dog and
shall be designed, constructed and maintained to prevent the animal's escape
and prevent the entry of young children. The pen, kennel, structure or fence
must have secure sides, and any gaps or spaces present in the structure must
not allow the dog to escape or place its head through the gap or space. All
structures used to confine a guard or attack dog must be securely locked when
such an animal is within the structure. Any fence used to contain a guard or
attack dog must have a minimum height of six feet. All structures erected to
house a guard or attack dog must comply with all zoning and budding regulations
of the Village of Calumet Park. All structures must be adequately lighted,
ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned or
controlled by government law enforcement agencies.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)
§ 91.12  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, a police
officer or any village employee designated to perform the duties of animal
control may seize, impound and humanely confine to an animal shelter or
hospital any of the following animals:
      (1)   Any dog or cat without a valid license tag;
      (2)   Any animal at large;
      (3)   Any animal constituting a public nuisance or considered a danger to
the public;
      (4)   Any animal that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement
order of a Health Officer;
      (5)   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured or otherwise in need of
care;
      (6)   Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or
neglected;
      (7)   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
      (8)   Any animal that is charged with being potentially dangerous where a
police officer or village employee designated to perform the duties of animal
control determines that there is a threat to public health and safety;
      (9)   Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered
impounded or destroyed; and/or
      (10)   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or evicted from his
or her regular place of residence.
   (B)   An police officer or village employee designated to perform the duties
of animal control may also, or in lieu of impoundment, issue to the owner a
notice of violation. Notice shall impose upon the owner a penalty pursuant to §
6-7A-16 of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)
§ 91.13  PROPERTY OWNERS MAY IMPOUND.
   (A)   Any person finding an animal at large upon his or her property may
remove the same to any animal shelter that will take possession of the animal.
If no such shelter is available, the property owner may hold the animal in his
or her own possession, and as soon as possible, notify the Police Department.
   (B)   The property owner shall provide a description of the animal and the
name of the owner if known. The Department shall dispatch an animal control
officer to take possession of the animal.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)
§ 91.14  DISPOSITION OF LARGE ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any police officer or village employee designated to perform the
duties of animal control who removes a large animal such as a horse, cow, mule
or any other animal not acceptable by any animal hospital or shelter shall be
authorized to call a trucking firm or company which shall convey the animal to
a farm or other appropriate facility that has an agreement with the village to
accept the animals.
   (B)   The disposition of any animal removed to a facility other than an
animal hospital or shelter shall be handled in the same manner as though the
animal were confined in an animal hospital or shelter.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)
§ 91.15  NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   If the name of the owner or custodian of an animal found at large is
known or can be obtained with reasonable dispatch, the officer shall return the
animal to the residential address of the owner. If there is no one present, the
officer shall leave written notice of whom the owner must contact to reclaim
the animal. The officer shall then remove the animal to the nearest animal
hospital or shelter that will accept the animal.
   (B)   Any owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay all fees owed to
the animal hospital or shelter and to the village for impoundment and/or
licensing before the animal will be released to the owner.
   (C)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within the time prescribed by
the animal hospital or shelter shall become the property of the village and
shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or euthanized in a manner
prescribed by the animal hospital or shelter.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a municipal infraction or misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
pursuant to §
10.99. If a violation continues, each day’s violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 02-792, passed - -2002; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Regulating parkways
   
92.02   Tunneling, opening, excavating and the like
   
92.03   Pedestrians prohibited
   
92.04   Encroachments prohibited
   
92.05   Basketball goals prohibited
   
92.06   Maintenance of public ways
   
92.07   Removal of snow and ice
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  REGULATING PARKWAYS.
   (A)   The public parkway shall be planted with grass or other decorative
material in all residential districts. There shall be no parking, standing or
stopping of vehicles, except in an emergency, or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer (or other designated traffic safety official) on
or over a parkway. Violators shall be subject to a fine up to $500 per
occurrence and shall also be responsible for any damage to village property
caused by driving over, or parking on a parkway.
   (B)   Parkways shall not be black-topped, stoned or concreted, except to
provide a walkway to the residence, and upon application of an appropriate
building permit.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each person residing on property abutting on
village streets to maintain the area between the lot line of the residence and
the curb (or street line where no curb exists) free from weeds and other
noxious herbage or matter. Any person notified by the Public Works Department
to remove such offensive matter from the area fronting upon his or her place of
residence shall comply within seven days, or shall be subject to a fine up to
$500 per day.
   (D)   While the village recognizes the desire of citizens to beautify the
portion of land owned by the village, and located between the residence and the
adjoining curb (or street line where no curb exists), no encumbrance other than
grass, bushes, shrubs, flowers, trees, decorative rock and fences shall be
allowed thereon.
   (E)   In the event that it becomes necessary for the village to excavate any
portion of the public parkway, the parkway shall be returned to grade and
seeded after the excavation. The village shall not be responsible for any
bushes, shrubs, flowers, trees or other decorative matter which may have been
damaged or destroyed during the work done on the parkway.
(Ord. 01-766, passed 9-13-2001)
§ 92.02  TUNNELING, OPENING, EXCAVATING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any opening or
excavation in or to tunnel under any public street, parkway, alley, avenue or
other public place in the village without having first obtained a permit, or
without complying with the provisions of this section, or in violation of or
variance from the terms of any such permit.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for such permits as required by the
preceding section shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall state thereon
the location of the intended opening, excavation or tunnel, the length of any
opening, excavation or tunnel, the purpose of the opening, excavation or
tunnel, the person or corporation doing the actual work and the name of the
person for whom the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done.
   (C)   Issuance. All such permits as required in division (A) above shall be
issued by the Village Clerk upon the approval of the Building Committee of the
Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Fees. The fees for the permits issued pursuant to this section shall
be payable to the Village Clerk upon their issuance and shall be the following:
      (1)   Five dollars for each public street opening, excavation or tunnel
which does not exceed 15 lineal feet, plus $2.50 for each additional 100 lineal
feet or fraction thereof; or
      (2)   Two dollars and fifty cents for each parkway, excavation, opening
or tunnel which does not exceed 15 lineal feet, plus $2.50 for each additional
100 lineal feet, or fraction thereof; provided however, that if an applicant
obtains and pays for a permit for a street opening, excavation or tunnel and
the same project requires an opening in a parkway, the applicant is only
required to pay the fee provided in division (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Bond of applicants.
      (1)   No such permit issued pursuant to this section shall be issued
unless and until the applicant therefor has filed with the Village Clerk a bond
in the sum of $25,000 conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss,
liability or damage that may result or accrue from or because of the making,
existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such opening, excavation or
tunnel.
      (2)   The bond may be cash or shall have as surety a corporation licensed
to do business in the state as a surety company.
   (F)   Restoration upon completion of work.
      (1)   Promptly after the completion of the work done under the permit
issued pursuant to this section, the person making the opening, excavation or
tunnel shall restore and replace in proper shape and condition any pavement
displaced by reason of the work, and shall restore and replace the surface of
any public way which may be opened or otherwise disturbed. All of this work
shall be done in such manner as shall be satisfactory to the Building Committee
of the Board of Trustees, and as will leave the public way in a condition
equally as useable as before it was opened or disturbed under such authority.
      (2)   The Building Committee of the Board of Trustees may, at its
discretion, require such person to do additional work to restore the surface in
a manner satisfactory to the Building Committee of the Board of Trustees. Upon
ascertaining that the work has been properly completed, the Building Committee
of the Board of Trustees shall certify such fact to the Village Clerk, who
shall cause any bond furnished pursuant to the preceding section to be
released.
   (G)   Enforcement of section. The Building Committee of the Board of
Trustees shall, from time to time, inspect all openings, excavations and
tunnels being made in or under any public street, sidewalk, parkway, alley,
avenue or other public place in the village to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this section.
   (H)   Exemption. Public utility companies operating within the village on a
franchise basis are exempted from the provisions of divisions (D) and (E)
above.
(Ord. 1960-0923, passed 9-23-1960)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  PEDESTRIANS PROHIBITED.
   Whenever a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon any adjacent public street
within the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 82-383, passed 3-11-1982)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   That no person, firm, corporation or other entity shall install,
place, maintain or construct any structure that encroaches upon the State of
Illinois right-of-way on the above referenced project within the limits of the
Village of Calumet Park.
   (B)   The Village Clerk of the Village of Calumet Park is hereby authorized
and directed to attach a copy of this section to the agreement dated January
28, 1993, by and between the State of Illinois and the Village of Calumet Park
relative to the improvement of the intersection of Vermont Street and Ashland
Avenue.
(Ord. 93-594, passed 1-28-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05  BASKETBALL GOALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition.
      (1)   Basketball goals shall not be permitted in a public right-of-way,
including streets, alleys and parkways.
      (2)   A basketball goal, pursuant to the ordinance, shall be considered
to be in the public right-of-way for purpose of this section under each of the
following circumstances:
         (a)   If the upright support to which the basketball hoop is attached
(whether a permanent or temporary support, whether a stationary or portable
support) is located on the public way; and
         (b)   When the rim and/or net through which the basketball is to be
thrown overhangs the public right-of-way, notwithstanding that the support is
located on or attached to private property.
   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this section, PUBLIC WAY shall mean any
road, street, sidewalk or any other surface designed or used for pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, located within the limits of Calumet Park, Illinois, and
which is owned or maintained by the Village of Calumet Park or any unit of
federal, state or local government.
   (C)   Other prohibition. It shall further be unlawful for any person or
group of persons to engage in or play the sport of basketball, outdoors on any
property, public or private, within the limits of the Village of Calumet Park,
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 94-631, passed 7-14-1994)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Public way defined. The term PUBLIC WAY as used herein means any
sidewalk, roadway, alley or other public thoroughfare open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of travel.
   (B)   Prohibition. Any person engaged in any business or occupation on
premises adjacent to a public way shall not cause or permit the accumulation of
any paper, rubbish or refuse upon that portion of the public way so used.
   (C)   Responsibility. Any person engaged in any business or occupation on
premises adjacent to a public way shall be responsible for the removal of the
snow and ice from the sidewalk adjacent to the premises.
(Ord. 02-799, passed 10-24-2002)
§ 92.07  REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
      SIDEWALK.  An area or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of pedestrian traffic, whether or not it is paved.
      STREET.  Any place or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of vehicular traffic, including any shoulder parkway, right-of-way or
median strip thereof.
   (B)   Deposit of snow on street and sidewalks. No commercial or multi-family
residence establishment shall deposit upon the property of any adjoining
property owners or any public sidewalks or public streets any snow removed from
its parking lots or adjacent property. In addition, no person shall deposit
snow in excess of three feet in height within 20 feet in any direction of the
apex of any comer of an intersection.
   (C)   Hazardous deposits of ice and snow. No person shall throw, blow or
shovel ice or snow onto the property of another person or onto an sidewalk,
into a street, or in any other place which would create a hazard to vehicular
traffic or a danger to pedestrians or home owners.
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   All private contractors who plow or remove snow off private
property located within the Village of Calumet Park shall be required to and
pay a contractor's fee of $100, payable to the Village Clerk, for a period of
one fiscal year, which shall begin on May 1 of the year for which the license
is issued and shall terminate on April 30 of the next year.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall mail to all contractors a statement of the
time of their registration expiration; provided that a failure to send out the
notice or the failure of the contractor to receive it shall not excuse the
contractor from a failure to obtain a new registration, or a renewal thereof,
nor shall it be a defense in an action for unpaid fees.
   (E)   (1)   Every licensee operating a business in the village where the
property contains, abuts or fronts on a paved public sidewalk, shall remove and
clear away, or cause to be removed and cleared away, snow, after at least two
inches of snow has accumulated, and also accumulations of ice, sleet, or
freezing rain. After initial clearance, the licensee shall maintain the
sidewalk in a reasonably clear condition.
      (2)   When snow, ice, or freezing rain is required to be removed, it
shall be removed from the full width of the sidewalk, or at least 48 inches in
area, whichever is less in width, along the entire length of the public
sidewalk which is upon, fronts or abuts the property.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E)(4) of this section, snow, ice,
sleet, or freezing rain shall be removed as provided in division (E)(1) and (2)
of this section within 48 hours after the public announcement of the Director
of Public Works set forth in division (E)(6).
      (4)   In the event snow, ice, sleet, or freezing rain on a sidewalk has
become so hard that it cannot be reasonably removed without damage to the
sidewalk, or is otherwise largely impractical to remove, the person responsible
for said removal shall cause enough sand or other abrasive material to be put
on the sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably safe, and shall maintain the
sidewalk in such condition until weather permits the owner to comply with
division (E)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (5)   The person responsible for removal of accumulations of snow, ice,
sleet, or freezing rain from a sidewalk abutting a lot containing a building
occupied by more than four dwelling units, shall remove all snow, ice, sleet or
freezing rain from the driveways and parking lots of the premises and from the
walkways between the public sidewalks, parking lots, or driveways, and
entrances to the dwelling units within the same time limit as specified in
division (E)(3) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   The declaration by the Director of Public Works that
accumulations of snow have reached two inches, or that there exists
accumulations of ice, sleet, or freezing rain shall be determinative of the
amount of accumulation or event causing divisions (E)(1) through (3) to be
effective.
         (b)   The declaration by the Director of Public Works of the time
frame for removal or cleaning of accumulations of snow, ice, sleet or freezing
rain shall be determinative of the time for removal set forth in division (E)
(3). Before making the announcement, the Public Works Director shall be guided
by the following standards:
            1.   The announcement shall be timed to roughly coincide with the
substantial cessation of the precipitation event.
            2.   The announcement shall be made so that the time frame for
beginning removal takes place Monday after 6:00 a.m. through 6:00 a.m. Friday,
and not on recognized federal or state holidays.
            3.   The announcement shall take into account the progress in snow
removal by the village on arterial streets within the areas and be timed to
coincide with the substantial completion of such operations in the area
affected.
      (7)   No fine shall be imposed for a violation of this division; however:
         (a)   If the person responsible fails to clear snow, ice, sleet or
freezing rain as provided for in this division, such person consents impliedly
to the creation of a contract with the village to perform such snow, ice, sleet
or freezing rain removal on behalf of such person, consistent with the terms
set forth in this division.
         (b)   After the village clears such accumulation, the person
responsible for snow removal under division (E)(1) of this section shall pay to
the village all the costs incurred by the village as the result of such removal
including, but not limited to, all costs incurred by the village as
administrative costs.
         (c)   The responsible person shall pay the village's costs within 28
days after the village sends out a bill to such person. If such person fails to
pay the full amount within the 28 day time period, such person shall
additionally pay the costs of collection, including reasonable attorney's fees.
         (d)   The person last paying taxes on any property subject to this
section is presumed to be responsible for the costs set forth in this division.
   (8)   This division is intended to be penal in nature and is not intended to
create a civil duty or right in other parties.
(Ord. 03-812, passed 2-13-2003; Ord. 09-976, passed 3-26-2009)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
92.02 shall be punished by a fine  pursuant to §
10.99. Each day any violation of any provision of §
92.02 shall continue it shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §
92.03 shall upon conviction thereof be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.05, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense.
   (E)   Any licensee with the Village of Calumet Park who violates any
provision of §
92.06 shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and shall be punished by
a fine  pursuant to §
10.99 for each and every offense. Each day that the violation exists shall
constitute a new separate offense.
   (F)   (1)   Not withstanding anything to the contrary, any person, firm or
corporation violating any of the provisions in §
92.07 shall be fined  pursuant to §
10.99.
      (2)   Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue, shall
constitute a new and separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 1960-0923, passed 9-23-1960; Ord. 82-383, passed 3-11-1982; Ord. 94-631,
passed 7-14-1994; Ord. 02-799, passed 10-24-2002; Ord. 03-812, passed 2-13-
2003; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Policy
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Unlawful real estate practices
   
93.05   Exempt locations
   
93.06   Required rental management practices
   
93.07   Limitations and exclusions
   
93.08   Complaints and enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Editor’s Note:
   Ordinance 09-981, passed 6-11-2009, reaffirmed the Fair Housing Law of the
village.
§ 93.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Fair Housing Code".
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 93.02  POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Village of Calumet Park, in
the exercise by the village of its home rule powers for the protection of the
public safety, health, morals and welfare of the residents residing in the
Village of Calumet Park and for persons in the village and for the maintenance
and promotion of commerce, industry and good government, to secure to all
persons living or desiring to live in the village a fair opportunity to
purchase, lease, rent or occupy housing or other real estate regardless of
race, color, sex, religion or ethnic background.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 93.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The employee of the Village of Calumet Park designated by
the Board of Trustees to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   BOARD.  The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park.
   COMMISSION.  The Commission on Community Relations of the Village of Calumet
Park.
   DISCRIMINATE. To extend differential treatment on the basis of race, color,
sex, religion or ethnic background, including discrimination because of the
race, color, sex, religion or ethnic background of friends or associates.
   LEASE.  Includes sub-lease, assignment and rental and includes any contract
to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION.  Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association, other persons in the business of lending money or guarantying
loans, any person in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans
as agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or selling loans
or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by title to or a
security interest in real property.
   OWNER.  Any person, or corporation, or trust, holding any interest in
property which may be used for dwelling purposes.
   PURCHASE.  Includes any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER.  An individual, partnership or corporation, other than a
real estate salesperson, who for another and for compensation negotiates,
offers, attempts or agrees to negotiate the sale, exchange, purchase, rental or
leasing of real estate, including, but not limited to, all persons licensed or
required to be licensed pursuant to the provisions of the Real Estate License
Act of 2003, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 454, as amended.
   REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON.  Any individual, other than a real estate broker,
who is employed by a real estate broker, or is associated by written agreement
with a real estate broker as an independent contractor, and is licensed or
required to be licensed pursuant to the provisions of the Real Estate License
Act of 2003, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 454, as amended.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION.  The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any real
property or interest therein or any negotiations, listings or contracts in
connection therewith.
   RENTAL AGENCIES.  Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
directing prospective tenants to apartments within the Village of Calumet Park
for a fee, regardless of whether the fee is paid by the tenant or the owner or
its agent.
   STEERING.  The use of any word, phrase or action in rendering real estate
agent services relating to the prospective sale or rental of a dwelling, which
influences or is intended to influence the choice of any person in favor of any
area because it is occupied, in whole or in part, by individuals of the
person's own race or ethnic origin, or against any area because it is occupied,
in whole or in part, by individuals of a race or ethnic origin different from
the person.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976; Ord. 77-272, passed 10-13-1977; Ord. 87-467,
passed 2-3-1987)
§ 93.04  UNLAWFUL REAL ESTATE PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person with respect to real estate located in
the Village of Calumet Park to:
   (A)   Persuade or induce any owner to discriminate in the sale of real
estate;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in furnishing services in connection
with real estate;
   (C)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges or sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith;
   (D)   For profit, seek to induce owners to sell real estate or attempt to
obtain listings of real estate for sale or lease by representing or suggesting
that any prospective or present change in the race, color, sex, religion or
ethnic background of persons in the neighborhood will cause a decline in the
value of real estate;
   (E)   Refuse to disclose to any bona fide prospective buyer or lessee,
because of the race, color, sex, religion or ethnic background of the
prospective buyer or lessee, the address and description of any property listed
for sale or lease or the terms upon which it is offered, or refuse to show, for
that reason, to any bona fide prospective buyer or lessee any listing sheet or
rental list in the person's possession relating to the property;
   (F)   Make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, sex, religion or ethnic background or an intention to make any
such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (G)   Represent to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
ethnic background that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
   (H)   Discriminate in lending or furnishing financial assistance to a person
applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving,
repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in
the fixing of the amount, interest, rate, duration or other terms or conditions
of the loan or other financial assistance. For the purpose of this division,
discrimination shall include refusal to make loans, differentiating in the type
of terms of loans, including interest rates, charges to buyer or seller,
duration and amount of loan, influencing appraisals in connection with loans or
delaying of loan applications;
   (I)   Differentiate in lending in connection with loans to be secured by
property in the Village of Calumet Park because of race, color, sex, religion
or ethnic background of the persons living in Calumet Park or of the persons
living in the neighborhood of the property to be used as security for the loan
or because of the prospective or present changes in the race, color, sex,
religion or ethnic background of persons living in Calumet Park or in the
neighborhood of the property to be used as a security for the loan. For the
purpose of this division, differentiate in lending shall include:
      (1)   To refuse to make loans;
      (2)   To differentiate in the type of loans, including interest rates,
charges to buyer or seller, duration and amount of loan;
      (3)   To influence appraisals in connection with loans; or
      (4)   To delay processing loan applications.
   (J)   Advertise that any property is for sale or for rent in a newspaper or
publication without the written consent of the owner or his or her authorized
agent;
   (K)   (1)   Solicit any owner or occupant of a dwelling to sell or rent, or
list for sale or rental, the dwelling at any time after the owner or occupant
has notified the Village of Calumet Park Clerk that he or she does not desire
to be so solicited.
      (2)   The Clerk shall publish and make available, without charge,
appropriate forms which may be executed by any owner or occupant of a dwelling
to provide the notice. The Clerk shall prepare a list of the names and
addresses of the owners and occupants and shall publish the same as follows:
         (a)   By maintaining a copy of the list in the office of the Village
Clerk of the Village of Calumet Park and making it available for inspection;
         (b)   By notifying every real estate firm belonging to the Southwest
Suburban Board of Realtors, the Greater South Suburban Board of Realtors and
all other real estate firms known to be doing business within the Village of
Calumet Park, Illinois, that a copy of the list is available; and
         (c)   By furnishing a copy of the list upon request and payment of
reproduction costs to any person having an interest in the sale or rental of
any dwelling in Calumet Park.
      (3)   In addition, any owner or occupant of a dwelling may notify, in
writing, any real estate broker or salesperson that the owner or occupant does
not desire to be solicited. Upon the notice, a real estate broker or
salesperson shall not solicit the owner or occupant to sell or rent, or list
for sale or rental, the dwelling. SOLICIT or SOLICITATION means any
communication by or on behalf of a real estate broker or salesperson with the
owner or occupant of a dwelling: which is intended to induce the sale, rental
or listing of the dwelling; which is intended to offer or promote services in
connection therewith; and which is carried out by means of any of the
following:
         (a)   In-person contact at the dwelling;
         (b)   Written material mailed or delivered directly to the dwelling
such as direct mail, leaflets or pamphlets; and
         (c)   Telephonic contacts with the owner or occupant of the dwelling.
      (4)   For the purpose of this chapter the term SOLICIT or SOLICITATION
shall not refer to communication carried out by means of print or electronic
media of general circulation such as newspapers, radio, television or the
Yellow Pages.
   (L)   Discriminate in the sale of insurance in connection with real estate;
   (M)   Discourage any person from purchasing real property, by
representations regarding the existing or potential proximity of real property
owned, used or occupied by persons of any particular race, color, sex, religion
or ethnic background, or to represent that the existing or potential proximity
will or may result in the lowering of property values;
   (N)   Steer or attempt to steer by the use of any word, phrase or action in
rendering real estate agent services relating to the prospective sale or rental
of a dwelling, which influences or is intended to influence the choice of any
person in favor of any area because it is occupied, in whole or in part, by
individuals of the person's own race or ethnic origin, or against any area
because it is occupied, in whole or in part, by individuals of a race or ethnic
origin different from the person;
   (O)   Pay a commission or any consideration to any person for acts or
services performed in violation of this section; or
   (P)   To direct, designate, list or otherwise make available to any person,
firm or corporation for a fee a list of rental properties, whether accurate or
not, within the Village of Calumet Park, without being first registered and
complying with the terms of this chapter, provided that this section shall not
apply to any rental agent so designated by the owner of the building for the
purpose of leasing apartments owned and leased by the owner or his or her
designated agent.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976; Ord. 77-272, passed 10-13-1977; Ord. 87-467,
passed 2-3-1987)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  EXEMPT LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The Commission or Board of Trustees may exempt locations, buildings
and transactions from the provisions of §
93.04 above.
   (B)   Before granting exemptions, the Commission shall consider the plan of
development adopted by the applicant for an exemption, which plan must be
designed to prevent or eliminate de facto segregation or re-segregation and
which plan is found by the Commission or Board of Trustees to be reasonably
designed to prevent or eliminate de facto segregation or re-segregation and
designed to achieve integration.
   (C)   Exemptions granted shall be supported by findings of fact regarding:
      (1)   Concentration of racial groups in adjoining or surrounding areas;
      (2)   The extent to which the location or building involved is
integrated;
      (3)   The number of properties being offered for sale in the location;
      (4)   The number of vacancies in rental units in the building or
location; and
      (5)   The extent to which schools in the area have been integrated.
   (D)   The exemption hereunder may be revoked by the Commission at any time
if it is found, pursuant to a complaint filed under the provisions of this
chapter, that the applicant has not pursued the voluntary plan in good faith;
provided, if the exemption has been granted pursuant to a plan of development,
the applicants for the original plan of development shall be notified and be
heard by the Commission before revocation of the exemption.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be considered as encouraging discriminatory
practices, but its purpose is to allow owners and realtors to adopt voluntary
plans of integration which accomplish goals of this chapter.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall be construed as exempting any person from
applicable state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 93.06  REQUIRED RENTAL MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   General. This section shall apply only to the rental of multiple-
family residences, and similar developments containing four or more dwelling
units, and also to the rental of parcels developed for mobile dwelling units.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DWELLING UNIT.  A portion of a building, or a structure affixed to
realty, containing culinary facilities and arranged, designed, exclusively used
or maintained for use as a separate housekeeping unit.
         HOTEL.  A building in which living or sleeping facilities are provided
for compensation and offered to transient guests and in which one or more
customary services such as maid and linen service or telephone service are
provided. For the purposes of this section, the term HOTEL shall also mean
MOTEL.
      (3)   Hotels. This section shall not apply to hotels.
   (B)   Lease required.
      (1)   No dwelling unit shall be rented without a written lease having
been executed on behalf of the owner and the tenant.
      (2)   This requirement shall not apply to the renewal of tenancies
existing as of the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Security deposit; application. No dwelling unit shall be rented
without the owner or agent first having obtained a written application, along
with a security deposit of not less than one month's rental. However, this
provision shall not apply to renewals of existing leases.
   (D)   Showing of dwelling units. Any person showing a dwelling unit for the
purpose of renting the dwelling unit, must have a knowledge of this chapter of
the Village of Calumet Park.
   (E)   Processing of application for rental of a dwelling unit. Any persons
accepting and/or processing an application for a dwelling unit must:
      (1)   Have a knowledge of this chapter of the Village of Calumet Park;
      (2)   Have a knowledge of the laws and practices in connection with
rental and management of multiple family dwellings; and
      (3)   Attend a seminar on housing practices to be conducted by the
Commission on Community Relations of Calumet Park with the assistance of the
Calumet Park Board of Realtors. Such a seminar must be attended at least once
each calendar year.
   (F)   Copies of applications. Copies of applications for apartments shall be
furnished by the owner or manager to all agents having authority to accept the
applications. No agent shall represent that an application has been made for a
dwelling unit unless he or she has, in fact, knowledge that the application has
been made.
   (G)   Reports of rentals.
      (1)   It is the policy of the Mayor and the Board of Trustees to prevent
the segregation by race of any part of the Village of Calumet Park. In order to
prevent persons selling or renting real estate, whether as owner or otherwise,
from selling or renting on the basis of the race of the buyer or lessee, the
Administrator is directed to review and investigate sales and rentals of
residential property to determine if the sales and rentals are in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In order to facilitate the review and investigation, every person
who rents residential real estate located in Calumet Park or any person who
acts as an agent for a lessor of real estate located in Calumet Park shall,
within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter file a report with the
Administrator which indicates:
         (a)   The address of each multiple family residence or development
which he or she rents or for which he or she acts as agent for the purpose of
renting;
         (b)   The number of dwelling units contained in each such multiple
family residence or development; and
         (c)   The race of each lessee presently occupying the premises.
      (3)   Thereafter, within the first ten days of each calendar month such
person shall file a report with the Administrator containing the following
information:
         (a)   The address of each residential property for which a lease has
been executed during the previous calendar month, including the apartment or
unit number of each residential property so leased; and
         (b)   The race of the lessee.
      (4)   Owners or agents shall submit these reports directly to the
Administrator or to the Community Relations Commission within the times
designated.
      (5)   Reports of rentals so submitted shall be kept confidential and
shall be available for inspection only by the Administrator, the Community
Relations Commission and the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Information derived
from these reports shall not be used as evidence in any adversary proceeding
for or against the owner or agent who has supplied the information.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07  LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   A complaint shall be barred from consideration unless it is filed with
the Administrator within six months after the alleged violation has occurred.
The Administrator may extend the time for filing the complaint for an
additional 60 days when conciliation efforts are pending.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall require an owner or agent to offer for
sale or lease real property to the public at large, nor shall this chapter be
construed to prohibit discrimination for any reason other than race, color,
sex, religion or ethnic background and not otherwise prohibited by law.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall require a person to offer real property
for sale or lease or to show real property to any person if the person is not
negotiating for the purchase or lease of the real property in good faith;
provided, however, a "tester" authorized by the Administrator shall be deemed
to be negotiating in good faith.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter are limited to real estate transactions
solely in connection with property located in the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 93.08  COMPLAINTS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provision of
this chapter may file a written complaint with the Administrator. The complaint
shall be under oath, addressed to the Commission, and shall:
      (1)   State the name and address of the complainant;
      (2)   State the name and address of the person or persons against whom
the complaint is brought, if known to the complainant; and
      (3)   State the facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter.
The complaint shall state the name and address of all persons believed to have
knowledge concerning the alleged violation. The Commission shall provide a
printed form of complaint for the use of the aggrieved persons.
   (B)   No fee shall be charged for the filing of the complaint.
   (C)   After the filing of the complaint, the Administrator shall, within
three days, serve a copy of the complaint personally or by certified mail on
the person or persons charged and shall furnish a copy to the Chairperson of
the Commission.
   (D)   The Administrator shall investigate the complaint and if he or she
determines that probable cause exists in support of the allegations of the
complaint, he or she shall set a date for a conference and notify the parties
of the time and place thereof. At the conference, the Administrator shall
interview the complainant and the person or persons against whom the complaint
has been directed and shall attempt to resolve the complaint by conciliation.
   (E)   (1)   If the Administrator is unable to conciliate the complaint, he
or she shall so notify the Chairperson of the Commission within 30 days of the
filing of the complaint and the Commission shall thereupon hold a hearing on
the complaint, either by the full Commission, or by a three-member panel
thereof, as determined by the Chairperson.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted upon notice by certified mail to all
parties, at least 48 hours prior to the hearing. The Commission shall provide a
court reporter to take a transcript of the hearing.
      (3)   All evidence shall be under oath, administered by an officer
authorized to administer oaths. All parties may be represented by counsel at
their election and shall have the right to call witnesses and to cross-examine
witnesses.
      (4)   If the hearing is conducted by a three-member panel, the panel
shall furnish the Commission with:
         (a)   Its findings of fact;
         (b)   Its recommendations;
         (c)   A summary of the evidence taken; and
         (d)   A transcript of the hearing, if requested by the Commission.
   (F)   (1)   At the close of the hearing, the Commission may take any one or
more of the following actions:
         (a)   Resolve the complaint by conciliation;
         (b)   Dismiss the complaint;
         (c)   Make findings and make recommendations to the Board regarding
suspension or revocation of license;
         (d)   Impose a fine provided for in §
93.99 below; and/or
         (e)   In the case of any violation of this chapter by any person in
the course of performing under a contract or subcontract with the state or any
political subdivision or agency thereof, or with the United States of America
or any agency or instrumentality thereof, notify by certified mail the
contracting agency for the purpose of causing it to terminate the contract or
any portion thereof, either absolutely or on condition of compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Commission may direct the Village Attorney to commence action
in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover the penalty provided herein
or to seek such equitable relief as the Commission may deem proper.
   (G)   (1)   If, in the judgment of the Administrator, immediate court action
is necessary, he or she may, at any time, instruct the Village Attorney to file
a complaint in any court of competent jurisdiction for a fine, injunction or
other appropriate relief.
      (2)   Such action may be taken even though administrative hearings of the
complaint are still pending before the Administrator or the Commission.
      (3)   In addition to the duties specified herein, the Administrator shall
have the following powers and duties:
         (a)   To make recommendations regarding amendments to the Fair Housing
Ordinance and related ordinances;
         (b)   To investigate all matters coming to his or her attention in
connection with administering fair housing in the Village of Calumet Park; and
         (c)   To investigate fair housing grievances and attempt conciliation
thereof, when either an oral or written complaint has been filed.
   (H)   At any time after final action by the Commission or after dismissal of
a complaint by the Administrator or in the event of the refusal of the
Administrator or Commission to act on a complaint within the time limits herein
set forth, the complainant may file a complaint in any court of competent
jurisdiction for appropriate relief for the alleged violation.
   (I)   The Commission or the Administrator is authorized to hold closed
meetings for conciliation of complaints of discrimination brought pursuant to
this chapter. The Administrator, the complainant and an advisor, the respondent
and an advisor shall have the right to attend the hearing.
   (J)   The complainant or the person charged, or the Chairperson of the
Commission or the Commission on its own motion, may have subpoenas issued by
the Commission for persons to appear at Commission hearings and for the
examination of documents. Subpoenas shall only be issued to persons or for
documents which have a substantial evidentiary connection with a complaint.
Service of the subpoenas shall be made in the same manner as in civil actions
and shall be enforceable through any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, trust or beneficiary thereof, or corporation violating any
of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 76-250, passed 9-9-1976; Ord. 87-467, passed 2-3-1987; Ord. 20-1236,
passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Code Adopted
   
94.01   Fire Prevention Code adopted; amendments
Fire Alarm Systems
   
94.15   Common name
   
94.16   Purpose
   
94.17   Definitions
   
94.18   Application for alarm systems
   
94.19   False alarms; cost
   
94.20   System standards
   
94.21   Testing of equipment
   
94.22   Local alarms
   
94.23   Automatic telephone dialers
   
94.24   Responsibility of village
   
94.25   Acceptance
   
94.26   Notification required
   
94.27   Fees
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIRE CODE ADOPTED
§ 94.01  FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   A certain Code entitled International Fire Code of 2018, together with
all the amendments thereto, is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the Village
of Calumet Park, and made a part of this chapter the same as though said Code
was specifically set forth in full in this section.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate a provision of this
Code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, shall be
liable for a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 18-1203, passed 6-14-2018)
FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 94.15  COMMON NAME.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Fire Alarm Ordinance".
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.16  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the Calumet Park Fire
Department emergency services from misuse.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.17  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM.  Any system or signaling device which is designed to detect and
signal any emanation of smoke or fire in a protected area by the transmission
of an electrical impulse or any signal of any kind to a bell, siren, horn or
which system causes any audible annunciation on the premises or to a remote
monitoring location.
   ALARM USER.  Any person, including current lessee, on whose premises an
alarm system is utilized within the Village of Calumet Park.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE.  Any alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, or by radio waves a signal or pre-recorded voice
message indicating the existence of an emergency situation such as a burglary
or robbery.
   EMERGENCY CALL OUT LIST.  A list supplied to the Calumet Park Fire
Department by the alarm user that contains current names, addresses and
telephone numbers of a minimum of two persons who can respond to the premises
when there is an alarm activation.
   FALSE ALARM.  The activation of an alarm system, by any cause, that alerts
the Calumet Park Fire Department that a fire is in progress in a protected
premises when, in fact, there is no evidence of any such fire detected by
responding firefighters.
   FIRE CHIEF.  The Chief of the Calumet Park Fire Department or his or her
designated representative.
   LOCAL ALARM.  Any electrically operated instrument composed of sensory
apparatus and related hardware which automatically emits an alarm (such as a
siren, bell, horn or tone) which is audible beyond the premises being
protected, upon receipt of a stimulus from a sensor that has detected a
physical force or condition characteristic of an unauthorized entry.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIMARY TRUNK LINE.  A telephone line leading directly into the
communication center of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.18  APPLICATION FOR ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Every alarm user shall apply for an alarm system permit and shall
state on the application form to be prepared by the Fire Department, his or her
name, the address of the residence or business or businesses in or upon which
the alarm system has been or will be installed, his or her telephone number,
the type of alarm system, the alarm business or businesses selling, installing,
monitoring, inspecting, responding to or maintaining the alarm system, and the
name and telephone number of at least two other persons (in the case of a
corporate alarm user applicant, at least three persons) who can be reached at
any time, day or night, and who are authorized to respond to an alarm and who
can open the premises in which the system is installed.
   (B)   (1)   Every alarm user authorized under this section shall be required
to have its alarm system inspected at least once a year by a licensed alarm
business, and post a certificate of the inspection on the premises in plan view
where the alarm system is maintained.
      (2)   Every alarm business that has a service line connected to the
Police Department Communication Center shall pay an annual permit fee of $25.
The first annual permit fee shall be payable 30 days after the passage of this
subchapter, and yearly thereafter.
      (3)   Every alarm user shall obtain a permit annually for the use of its
alarm system.
   (C)   The information contained in an alarm system application required by
this section and other information received by the Fire Chief through
correspondence or communications with an alarm user shall be securely
maintained and restricted to inspection only by the Fire Chief or certain
officers or village employees specifically assigned the responsibility for
handling and processing alarm user permit applications in the course of
official duties. The Fire Chief or any employee of the village who is found to
have knowingly or willfully revealed information contained in an alarm user
application or in correspondence or communications with an alarm user to any
person for any purpose not related to this subchapter or official law
enforcement matters without the express written consent of the alarm user shall
be subject to dismissal form the service of the village in the manner provided
by law.
   (D)   Alarms which are designed to detect the products of combustion and
which sound an alarm which is not audible outside the protected area, "Smoke
Detector," which is installed in single-family or two-family residential
structures and which is not connected to any outside communication line shall
be exempt from the licensing provisions of this section.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.19  FALSE ALARMS; COST.
   (A)   After the Fire Department has recorded two false alarms within a
calendar month for any alarm user, the Fire Department shall notify the alarm
user and the alarm business providing service or inspection to the alarm user,
in writing by first class mail, of such fact, and require that the alarm user
or the alarm business servicing the alarm user submit a report to the Fire
Chief within seven days after the mailing of the notice, which report shall
describe efforts taken to discover and eliminate the cause or causes of the
false alarm. Failure to submit the report within seven days shall constitute
cause for revocation of the alarm system permit. If the Fire Chief revokes the
alarm system permit, the Fire Chief shall give written notice by first class
mail to the alarm user and the alarm business servicing the alarm user advising
of the revocation.
   (B)   If the report required by this section fails to show that reasonable
steps have been taken to eliminate or reduce false alarms, then the Fire Chief
may revoke the alarm system permit and shall give written notice of the
revocation as provided for in this section.
   (C)   An alarm user whose alarm system permit has been revoked is not
precluded from applying for a new alarm system permit. The Fire Chief, however,
is not required to issue a new alarm system permit unless he or she is
satisfied the alarm user's system has been properly serviced and its
deficiencies corrected. The Fire Chief may impose reasonable restrictions and
conditions upon the issuance of a new alarm system permit to an alarm user with
respect to the particular system for which the alarm system permit was revoked.
   (D)   In the event more than two false alarms are received by the Fire
Department within a calendar month and the Fire Chief does not revoke the alarm
system permit, then there may be assessed against the alarm user a fee of $30
for each false alarm thereafter transmitted within a calendar month.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.20  SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Only alarm systems which are equivalent to or exceed the minimum
applicable standards as listed in the Fire Prevention Code of the Village of
Calumet Park shall be authorized.
   (B)   The equipment or hardware used and the manner of installation of alarm
systems shall correspond to the applicable standards contained in the Fire Code
for each of the foregoing alarm systems.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.21  TESTING OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No alarm system designed to transmit emergency messages directly to
the Fire Department shall be tested or demonstrated without first obtaining
permission from the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Failure to notify the Fire Chief prior to testing an alarm system
shall constitute a false alarm.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.22  LOCAL ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to have a local alarm on any building,
place or premises within the village without first having obtained
authorization from the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Local alarms may be in addition to other alarm systems. Local alarms
shall not make a sound similar to that of a siren or emergency vehicle or of
ESDA warning systems. Owners of the local alarms will be responsible to
maintain the alarms and to turn the audible signal off at the request of the
Fire Department or an officer thereof. The continued sounding of the local
alarms for more than ten minutes after the appropriate agency has responded is
hereby declared to be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.23  AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALERS.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, no automatic telephone dialers
shall transmit a recorded message on any primary trunk line to the Calumet Park
Police Department or Fire Department.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.24  RESPONSIBILITY OF  VILLAGE.
   Neither the Village of Calumet Park nor any of its officials, officers or
representatives shall be responsible for the functioning or malfunctioning of
any alarm system, nor shall the Village of Calumet Park nor any of its
officials, officers or representatives, be responsible for the failure of the
Fire Department to respond to any alarm.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.25  ACCEPTANCE.
   By acceptance of an alarm system permit, each alarm user shall agree to be
governed by the terms of this subchapter and to pay any fees assessed against
such alarm users as provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.26  NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any fire alarm user to install, modify or
repair an alarm system without first notifying the Fire Chief.
   (B)   It shall further be a violation of this subchapter for an alarm user
to permit any false alarm as a result of the installation, modification or
repair.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27  FEES.
   The fees required herein shall be as follows:
   (A)   For an alarm system permit including the first year's permit fee: $30;
and
   (B)   Annual permit fee renewal: $25.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any provision of this subchapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
pursuant to §
10.99.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 84-422, passed 4-17-1984; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 95:  ROBBERY ALARM SYSTEMS AND BURGLAR BARS
Section
Robbery Alarm Systems
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Purpose
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Application for alarm systems
   
95.05   False alarms; costs
   
95.06   System standards
   
95.07   Testing of equipment
   
95.08   Local alarms
   
95.09   Automatic telephone dialers
   
95.10   Responsibility of village
   
95.11   Acceptance
Burglar Bars
   
95.25   General regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
ROBBERY ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 95.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Burglar and Robbery Alarm System
Ordinance".
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.02  PURPOSE.
   To protect the Calumet Park Police emergency services from misuse.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM.  Any system or signaling device which is designed to detect and
signal an unauthorized intrusion into a protected area, or to detect or signal
an attempted robbery by the transmission of an electrical impulse, or any
signal of any kind to a bell, siren, horn tone or which causes any audible
annunciation on the premises or to a remote monitoring location.
   ALARM USER.  Any person, including current lessee, on whose premises an
alarm system is utilized within the Village of Calumet Park.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE.  Any alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, or by radio waves, a signal or pre-recorded voice
message indicating the existence of an emergency situation such as a burglary
or robbery.
   EMERGENCY CALL OUT LIST.  A list supplied to the Calumet Park Police
Department by the alarm user that contains current names, addresses and
telephone numbers of a minimum of two persons who can respond to the premises
when there is an alarm activation.
   FALSE ALARM.  The activation of an alarm system, by any cause, that alerts
the Calumet Park police, by any means, that a burglary or robbery is occurring
in a protected premises and no evidence of a burglary or robbery is detected by
responding police.
   LOCAL ALARM.  An electrically operated instrument composed of sensory
apparatus and related hardware which automatically emits an alarm (such as a
siren, bell, horn or tone) which is audible beyond the premises being
protected, upon receipt of a stimulus from a sensor that has detected a
physical force or condition characteristic of an unauthorized entry.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   POLICE CHIEF.  The Chief of the Calumet Park Police Department or his or her
designated representative.
   PRIMARY TRUNK LINE.  A telephone line leading directly into the
communication center of the Police Department.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.04  APPLICATION FOR ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Every alarm user shall apply for an alarm system permit and shall
state on the application form to be prepared by the Police Department, his or
her name, the address of the residence or business or businesses in or upon
which the alarm system has been or will be installed, his or her telephone
number, the type of alarm system, the alarm business or businesses selling,
installing, monitoring, inspecting, responding to and/or maintaining the alarm
system, and the name and telephone number of at least two other persons (in the
case of a corporate alarm user applicant, at least three persons) who can be
reached at any time, day or night, and who are authorized to respond to an
alarm and who can open the premises in which the system is installed.
   (B)   (1)   Every alarm user authorized under this section shall be required
to have its alarm system inspected at least once a year by a licensed alarm
business, and post a certificate of the inspection on the premises in plain
view where the alarm system is maintained.
      (2)   Every alarm business that has a service line connected to the
Police Department Communication Center shall pay an annual permit fee of $25.
The first annual permit fee shall be payable 30 days after the passage of this
subchapter, and yearly thereafter.
   (C)   The information contained in an alarm system application required by
this section and other information received by the Police Chief through
correspondence or communications with an alarm user shall he or she securely
maintained and restricted to inspection only by the Police Chief or certain
officers or village employees specifically assigned the responsibility for
handling an processing alarm user permit applications in the course of official
duties. The Police Chief or any employee of the village who is found to have
knowingly or willfully revealed information contained in an alarm user
application or in correspondence or communications with an alarm user to any
person for any purpose not related to this subchapter or official law
enforcement matters without the express written consent of the alarm user shall
be subject to dismissal from the service of the village in the manner provided
by law.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.05  FALSE ALARMS; COSTS.
   (A)   After the Police Department has recorded two false alarms within a
calendar month from any alarm user, the Police Department shall notify the
alarm user and the alarm business providing service or inspection to the alarm
user, in writing by first class mail, of that fact, and require that the alarm
user and/or the alarm business servicing the alarm user submit a report to the
Police Chief within seven days after the mailing of the notice, which report
shall describe efforts taken to discover and eliminate the cause or causes of
the false alarm. Failure to submit the report within seven days shall
constitute cause for revocation of the alarm system permit. If the Police Chief
revokes the alarm system permit, the Police Chief shall give written notice by
first class mail to the alarm user and the alarm business servicing the alarm
user, advising of the revocation.
   (B)   If the report required by this section fails to show that reasonable
steps have been taken to eliminate or reduce false alarms, then the Police
Chief may revoke the alarm system permit and shall give written notice of the
revocation as provided for in this section.
   (C)   An alarm user whose alarm system permit has been revoked is not
precluded from applying for a new alarm system permit. The Police Chief,
however, is not required to issue a new alarm system permit unless he or she is
satisfied the alarm user's system has been properly serviced and its
deficiencies corrected. The Police Chief may impose reasonable restrictions and
conditions upon the issuance of a new alarm system permit to an alarm user with
respect to the particular system for which the alarm system permit was revoked.
   (D)   In the event more than two false alarms are received by the Police
Department within a calendar month and the Police Chief does not revoke the
alarm system permit, then there may be assessed against the alarm user a fee of
$30 for each false alarm thereafter transmitted within a calendar month.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.06  SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Only alarm systems which are equivalent to or exceed the minimum
applicable UL standards: UL 609 "Local Burglar Alarm Units and Systems"; UL 636
"hold-Up Alarm Units and Systems"; UL 681 "Installation and Classification of
Mercantile and Bank Burglar Alarm Systems"; and UL Standard 1023 "Household
Burglar Alarm System Units"; shall be authorized.
   (B)   The equipment and/or hardware used and the manner of installation of
alarm systems shall correspond to the applicable standards contained in the UL
requirements for each of the foregoing alarm systems.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.07  TESTING OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No alarm system designed to transmit emergency messages directly to
the Police Department shall be tested or demonstrated without first obtaining
permission from the Police Chief.
   (B)   Failure to notify the Police Chief prior to testing an alarm system
shall constitute a false alarm.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.08  LOCAL ALARMS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall be allowed to have a local alarm
on any building, place or premises within the village without first having
obtained authorization from the Chief of Police of the Calumet Park Police
Department.
   (B)   Local alarms are those alarms that sound audible on the premises of
the owner, renter or lessee. Local alarms may be in addition to other alarm
systems. Local alarms shall not make a sound similar to that of a siren or
emergency vehicle or of ESDA warning systems. Owners of the local alarms will
be responsible to maintain the alarms and to turn the audible signal off at the
request of the Police Department or an officer thereof. The continued sounding
of the local alarms for more than ten minutes after the appropriate agency has
responded is hereby declared to be a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Alarms affixed to vehicles of any type are not classified as local
alarms and are exempt.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.09  AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALERS.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, no automatic telephone dialers
shall transmit a recorded message on any primary trunk line to the Calumet Park
Police Department.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.10  RESPONSIBILITY OF VILLAGE.
   Neither the Village of Calumet Park nor any of its officials, officers or
representatives shall be responsible for the functioning or malfunctioning of
any alarm system, nor shall the Village of Calumet Park nor any of its
officials, officers or representatives, be responsible for the failure of the
Police Department to respond to any alarm.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
§ 95.11  ACCEPTANCE.
   By acceptance of an alarm system permit, each alarm user shall agree to be
governed by the terms of this subchapter and to pay any fees assessed against
the alarm users as provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981)
BURGLAR BARS
§ 95.25  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BURGLAR BARS.  Any bars, cage, grill gate or similar device placed over
windows, doors or other similar openings of a residential structure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any residential
structure or portion thereof to install or to permit the installation of any
burglar bars over any window, door or similar opening in any residential
structure without the use of a release device approved by the Building
Department and Fire Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any business or
commercial structure to install or to permit the installation of any burglar
bars, except in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Any such device may not be installed on the outside of any
structure, but only on the inside;
      (2)   Any such device may be installed only after being approved by the
Building Department and the Fire Department, pursuant to a building permit
issued prior to such installation; and
      (3)   Any device installed pursuant to this section must not be used to
block any window or exit area during any time when the structure is occupied.
(Ord. 96-673, passed 3-28-1996; Ord. 04-858, passed 10-28-2004)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.11 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined pursuant to §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of §
95.25 shall be subject to a fine pursuant to §
10.99 for each separate offense. Each day an offense is committed shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 81-379, passed 12-22-1981; Ord. 96-673, passed 3-28-1996; Ord. 20-1236,
passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 96:  PRESALE INSPECTIONS
Section
Generally
   
96.01   Notice of transfer of real property required
   
96.02   Compliance inspection; pertinent code requirements
   
96.03   Proposed compliance inspection
   
96.04   Refusal to consent; warrant procedures
   
96.05   Uninspected property; transfer stamps
   
96.06   Inspection procedures; appeal
   
96.07   Follow-up repairs; reinspection
   
96.08   Payment of current water bills; predeprivation hearing
   
96.09   Conditional certificate of compliance; procedures
   
96.10   Licensed and bonded contractors
   
96.11   Validity of certificate of compliance
   
96.12   No warranty
   
96.13   Inspection fee schedule
Rental Property
   
96.25   Occupancy of building as tenant or lessee
   
96.26   Issuance of certificate of occupancy
   
96.27   Refusal to consent; warrant procedures
   
96.28   Certificate of occupancy; issuance
   
96.29   Inspection fee schedule
   
96.30   Notice of violation
   
96.31   No warranty
Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
96.45   Definitions
   
96.46   Tax imposed
   
96.47   Liability
   
96.48   Declaration
   
96.49   Deed
   
96.50   Exemptions
   
96.51   Collection of tax
   
96.52   Proceeds
   
96.53   Violation
GENERALLY
§ 96.01  NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF REAL PROPERTY REQUIRED.
   Whenever an owner of real property in the village proposes to engage in a
transfer of real property in the village the owner shall provide the village
with a notice of transfer (notice) for the property, on a form provided by the
village.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.02  COMPLIANCE INSPECTION; PERTINENT CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The notice shall also constitute the village's request to inspect the
property (compliance inspection) to determine whether the property is in
compliance with the following specific requirements, which the corporate
authorities of the village find are related to the public health, safety and
welfare:
   (A)   Compliance with the Property Maintenance  Code.  All structures shall
be in compliance with the Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   Inspection to determine possible illegal conversions.  All structures
shall be inspected to determine whether they have been illegally converted. For
purposes of this subchapter, ILLEGALLY CONVERTED means that the property was
converted to another or additional use beyond that for which the property was
originally permitted, and which:
      (1)   Is in violation of the property's zoning limitations; and
      (2)   Is not a legal non-conforming use under the village's zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.03  PROPOSED COMPLIANCE INSPECTION.
   When the owner files the notice, the village shall schedule a proposed
compliance inspection to be conducted within 28 calendar days of the notice.
The notice of transfer form shall include the following:
   (A)   Date and time of the proposed compliance inspection;
   (B)   A statement that the owner or occupant has the right to withhold
consent to the compliance inspection and require the village to obtain a
warrant to conduct the inspection;
   (C)   For occupied rental dwellings, the village must also request and
obtain the consent of the tenant prior to conducting any inspection; and
   (D)   A space for the owner and/or to indicate that the owner and/or tenant
either consent to the inspection, or refuse consent.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.04  REFUSAL TO CONSENT; WARRANT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant does not consent to the proposed inspection,
the village may appear before any judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County and
seek an administrative search warrant to allow an inspection. Any such
application shall be made within ten calendar days after the owners nonconsent.
The application for the warrant shall specify the basis upon which the warrant
is being sought and shall include a statement that the inspection will be
limited to a determination whether there are violations of the code provisions
identified in this section, and whether there have been any illegal
conversions.
   (B)   The Court may consider any of the following factors along with such
other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as to whether a warrant
shall issue:
      (1)   Eyewitness account of violation;
      (2)   Citizen complaints;
      (3)   Tenant complaints;
      (4)   Plain view complaints;
      (5)   Violations apparent from village records;
      (6)   Property deterioration;
      (7)   Age of property;
      (8)   Nature of alleged violation;
      (9)   Condition of similar properties in the area;
      (10)   Documented violations on similar properties in the area;
      (11)   Passage of time since last inspection;
      (12)   Previous violations on the property.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.05  UNINSPECTED PROPERTY; TRANSFER STAMPS.
   In the event the owner or occupant refuses to consent to an inspection, and
the village does not seek a warrant (or if the Court refuses an application for
the warrant), the village shall issue transfer stamps pursuant to Ord. 94-640
and advise the purchaser of the property that it is uninspected property.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.06  INSPECTION PROCEDURES; APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event consent is given or a warrant issues, the village shall
conduct the compliance inspection as provided in §§
96.02 and
96.03. Within  three business days after the compliance inspection the village
shall issue a written notice of violations and repairs, if any, and necessary
to bring the property into compliance with the Property Maintenance Code. In
the event the inspection reveals a structure which has been illegally
converted, the village shall issue a notice of deconversion, specifying the
measures which must be taken in order to bring the illegally converted
structure into compliance with applicable zoning regulations.
   (B)   In the event the owner disputes the determination of violations and
repairs, the owner may file a request for administrative review on a form
provided by the village. An independent administrative  hearing officer
appointed by the village shall convene an administrative hearing within five
business days from the date of appeal. Upon completion of the administrative
hearing, the hearing officer will issue a final determination of violation and
repairs.
   (C)   In the event an owner disagrees with an administrative issuance of a
notice of deconversion, the owner may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals in
accordance with Article XIII, Section 4 of the village's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.07  FOLLOW-UP REPAIRS; REINSPECTION.
   A party issued a notice of repairs as provided for in §
96.06 shall proceed to make the repairs. Upon completion of the repairs and
notice thereof to the village, the village will conduct a reinspection within
three business days thereafter. Upon completion of the follow-up repairs, and
the completion of any deconversion measures required by the village, the
village shall issue a certificate of compliance.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.08  PAYMENT OF CURRENT WATER BILLS; PREDEPRIVATION HEARING.
   The seller must pay the current water bill and other fees owed by the seller
to the village prior to the issuance of the certificate of compliance. In the
event the owner disputes any such obligation (or any portion thereof), the
Office of the Village Clerk shall promptly provide the owner with a
predeprivation due process hearing consistent with the principals enunciated in
Memphis Light, Gas and Water Division v Craft, 436 U.S. 1 (1978). The Office of
the Village Clerk shall provide the hearing within three business days of a
request. If the owner disputes the village's determination as to liability, the
owner may pay the bill under protest, and may pursue any remedies available to
the seller to recover the claimed overcharge.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.09  CONDITIONAL CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE; PROCEDURES.
   An owner who has not completed the repairs identified through the inspection
may nevertheless transfer ownership of property if:
   (A)   The owner or agent has deposited with the village an amount of money
determined by the village to be sufficient to bring the structure into
compliance with all village building and zoning ordinances and any applicable
housing, fire or property maintenance codes or regulations; and
   (B)   The buyer, conveyee, transferee, assignee or successor in title,
ownership or interest (hereinafter buyer) has entered into an agreement with
the village whereby the buyer agrees to bring the structure into compliance
within the time period determined by the village to bring the structure into
compliance with all applicable code requirements within a period not to exceed
180 calendar days after the closing of transaction (closing).
   (C)   If the buyer enters into such an agreement, a conditional certificate
of compliance will issue in order to allow the closing to be completed. The
conditional certificate of compliance shall be issued by the village and shall
terminate on the one hundred and eighty-first day after closing and no
extensions shall be granted. A buyer who elects to accept the premises, subject
to the inspection with existing violations, and who agrees, in order to close,
to be responsible as provided herein, shall execute a sworn affidavit
satisfactory to the village, which will clearly indicate that the buyer is
fully aware of the existing violations as well as the possibility of violations
that may have existed but were undiscovered due to the lack of access and
agrees to accept the requirement and obligation to bring the structure into
compliance within 180 days of the closing. The village shall issue a
certificate of compliance upon completion of the repairs necessary to bring the
dwelling or structure into compliance.
   (D)   In the event the buyer fails to complete the required repairs, and
have the repairs verified on reinspection, the village pursue enforcement
proceedings through the Calumet Park Administrative Adjudication Process, or
through the Circuit Court of Cook County. The buyer hereby agrees to submit to
the jurisdiction and venue of the Calumet Park Administrative Adjudication
Process and the Circuit Court of Cook County and to waive service of summons
subject only to the notice requirement as required by law in order to enable
the village to expeditiously obtain an order of compliance with this section.
   (E)   If reasonable proof that the repairs have been completed is not
received by the village within the required period for the repairs to be
completed, the village, may also issue a citation for violation of this
subchapter and/or the escrow repair agreement, and may also pursue any
applicable administrative or judicial remedies to bring the structure and
property into compliance with applicable codes and regulations.
   (F)   The fine for violations of this subchapter shall be not less than $100
nor more than $1,000 per day for each day the violations remain uncorrected.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.10  LICENSED AND BONDED CONTRACTORS.
   All contractors performing repairs identified  in the point of sale
inspection, or issuing  certifications shall be licensed by the village and
bonded and shall make available, upon request, copies of their license(s),
verification of their liability insurance, errors and omissions insurance
policies and surety bond.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.11  VALIDITY OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   A certificate of compliance issued to the seller shall be valid for 180 days
from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.12  NO WARRANTY.
   In issuing a certificate of or conditional certificate, the village and its
agents do not make any warranty, representation or statement nor does it intend
to insure or guarantee to either buyer or seller of the property subject to the
point of sale inspection or any of their designees, agents, representatives, 
heirs, or assigns or any other interested party, including mortgage companies,
insurance companies, banks or any other party which may have any interest in
the property subject to a compliance inspection, nor does the village affirm
that there are no additional unnoted violations relative to any other provision
of any of the ordinances of Calumet Park, or relevant statutes, ordinances,
rules and regulations of the County of Cook, the State of Illinois or the
United States of America.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.13  INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE.
   The inspection fee schedule set forth on Exhibit A to Ordinance 08-965 and
Ord. 08-966 is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 08-965, passed 9-11-2008)
RENTAL PROPERTY
§ 96.25  OCCUPANCY OF BUILDING AS TENANT OR LESSEE.
   No owner, agent, or person shall allow any person to occupy any building as
a tenant or lessee or for valuable consideration unless the building has been
inspected and determined to be in compliance with all of the provisions of the
Property Maintenance Code as well as all health and building ordinances as
evidenced by a certificate of occupancy issued by the village. Thereafter, all
renal properties shall be inspected annually and an updated certificate of
occupancy.
(Ord. 08-966, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.26  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the applicant, owner or
operator agrees in his or her application to an inspection pursuant to this
subchapter. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, when the
village conducts inspections of a tenant's rental dwelling, the village must
obtain the consent of the tenant to conduct the inspection. If a tenant refuses
consent, the village may attempt to obtain a warrant pursuant to §
96.27.
(Ord. 08-966, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.27  REFUSAL TO CONSENT; WARRANT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant does not consent to the proposed inspection,
the village may appear before any judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County and
seek and administrative search warrant to allow an inspection. Any such
application shall be made within ten calendar days after the nonconsent of the
owner or occupant. The application for the warrant shall specify the basis upon
which the warrant is being sought and shall include a statement that the
inspection will be limited to a determination whether there are violations of
the Property Maintenance Code as well as all other health and building
ordinances that apply to the building.
   (B)   The Court may consider any of the following factors along with such
other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as to whether a warrant
shall issue:
      (1)   Eyewitness account of violation;
      (2)   Citizen complaints;
      (3)   Tenant complaints;
      (4)   Plain view complaints;
      (5)   Violations apparent from village records;
      (6)   Property deterioration;
      (7)   Age of property;
      (8)   Nature of alleged violation;
      (9)   Condition of similar properties in area;
      (10)   Documented violations on similar properties in the area;
      (11)   Passage of time since last inspection;
      (12)   Previous violations on the property.
( Ord. 08-966, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.28  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; ISSUANCE.
   If the inspection establishes that the building complies with all the
provisions of the Property Maintenance Code a well as all other health, zoning
and building ordinances of the village, then the village shall issue a
certificate of occupancy (certificate) for the building. The certificate shall
indicate that date of the inspection; that the building complies with the
requirements of the Property Maintenance Code as well as all other health and
building ordinances that apply to the building. Every certificate shall be
issued for a period of one year aft its date of issuance, unless sooner
revoked.
(Ord. 08-966, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.29  INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE.
   The inspection fee schedule set forth on Exhibit A to Ordinance 08-966 is
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 08-966, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.30  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Official determines that any rental building
fails to meet the requirements set forth in this subchapter or in applicable
rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto, the Building Official in
accordance with the Property Maintenance Code as well as all other health and
building ordinances that apply to the building shall issue a notice setting
forth the alleged failures and advising the responsible party that the failures
must be corrected.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Set forth the alleged violations of this subchapter or of
applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant hereto;
      (3)   Specify a date for the correction of any violation alleged;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or owner's agent personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. If one or more persons to whom the
notice is addressed cannot be found after diligent effort to do so, service may
be made upon the persons by point the notice in or about the rental dwelling
described in the notice.
   (C)   At the end of the period of time allowed for the correction of any
violation alleged, which was stated in the inspection notice, the Building
Official shall reinspect the property described in the notice.
   (D)   If, upon reinspection, the violations are determined by the Building
Official not to have been corrected, the village may initiate legal proceedings
for the immediate correction of the alleged violations.
(Ord. 08-966, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 96.31  NO WARRANTY.
   In issuing a certificate of or conditional certificate, the village and its
agents do not make any warranty, representation or statement nor does it intend
to insure or guarantee to either buyer or seller of the property subject to the
point of sale inspection or any of their designees, agents, representatives, 
heirs, or assigns or any other interested party, including mortgage companies,
insurance companies, banks or any other party which may have any interest in
the property subject to a compliance inspection, nor does the village affirm
that there are no additional unnoted violations relative to any other provision
of any of the ordinances of Calumet Park, or relevant statutes or ordinances.
(Ord. 08-966, passed 9-11-2005)
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
§ 96.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, or a receiver, executor,
trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   RECORDATION. Includes the issuance of certificates of title by Registrars of
Title under "An Act Concerning Land Titles" approved May 1, 1897, as amended,
pursuant to the filing of deeds for that purpose, as well as the recording of
deeds by Recorders of Deeds.
   VALUE. The amount of the full actual consideration therefor, including the
amount of any lien or liens assumed by the buyer.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994)
§ 96.46  TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on the transfer of title to real estate located in the
Village of Calumet Park as evidenced by the recordation of a deed by any person
or by the delivery of any deed or assignment of interest of the real property,
whether investing the owner with the beneficial interest in or legal title to
the property.
   (A)   The tax imposed shall be $5 for every $1,000 value or fraction thereof
as stated in the declaration.
   (B)   For any property that is declared to be tax exempt, there shall be
imposed a $50 fee on any transfer for that property
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. 17-1172, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 96.47  LIABILITY.
   The primary liability for payment of the tax shall be borne by the grantee
involved in any such transaction, provided, however, that it shall be unlawful
for the grantee or purchaser to accept a conveyance if the transfer tax has not
been paid. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994)
§ 96.48  DECLARATION.
   At the time the tax is paid there shall also be presented to the Village
Clerk, on a form prescribed by him or her, a declaration signed by at least one
of the sellers or grantors and also signed by at least one of the purchasers or
grantees involved in the transaction, or by their attorneys or agents, which
declaration shall state the full consideration for the property so transferred
and shall be deemed a confidential record by the Village Clerk. Where the
declaration is signed by an attorney or agent on behalf of sellers or buyers
who have the power of direction to deal with the title to the real estate under
a land trust agreement, the trustees being the mere repository of record legal
title with a duty of conveying the real estate only when and if directed in
writing by the beneficiary or beneficiaries having the power of direction, the
attorney or agent need only identify the land trust which is the repository of
record legal title and not the beneficiary or beneficiaries having the power of
direction under the land trust agreement.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994)
§ 96.49  DEED.
   Every deed shall show the date of the transaction which it evidences, the
names of the grantor and grantee, and a legal description of the property to
which it relates.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994)
§ 96.50  EXEMPTIONS.
   The  following deeds shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter
except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Deeds representing real estate transfers made before January 1, 1968,
but recorded after that date.
   (B)   Deeds to property in which the grantee is any governmental body or
deeds to property between governmental bodies, or deeds to any corporation,
society, association, foundation or institution organized and operated
exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes.
   (C)   Deeds which secure debt or other obligation.
   (D)   Deeds which, without additional consideration, confirm, correct,
modify, or supplement a deed previously recorded.
   (E)   Deeds where the actual consideration is less than $100.
   (F)   Tax deeds.
   (G)   Deeds of release of property which is security for a debt or other
obligation.
   (H)   Deeds of partition.
   (I)   Deeds made pursuant to mergers, consolidations, transfers or sales of
substantially all of the assets of corporations pursuant to plans of
reorganization.
   (J)   Deeds made by a subsidiary corporation to its parent corporation for
no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary's
stock.
   (K)   Deeds evidencing an actual exchange of real estate except that the
money difference or money's worth paid from one to the other shall not be
exempt from the tax.
   (L)   Deeds representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
documentary stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States, except
that such deeds shall not be exempt from filing the declaration.
   (M)   Deeds representing transfers in which the purchase is a participant in
the Illinois Home Ownership Made Easy Program (H.O.M.E.), ILCS Ch. 310, Act 55,
§§ 1 et seq. and is certified to receive program benefits under ILCS Ch. 310,
Act 55, § 7 (Sect. 7 of the Act).
Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this subchapter, no revenue
stamps shall be issued by the Village Clerk unless there is on file in the
office of the Village Clerk a Certificate of Compliance as required by
Ordinance No. 94-639.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994)
§ 96.51  COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be collected by the Clerk of
the Village of Calumet Park through the sale of revenue stamps, which shall be
caused to be prepared by the Clerk in such design, denominations and quantities
as the Clerk may from time to time prescribe.
   (B)   Such revenue stamps shall be available for sale at and during the
regular business hours of the village offices or at other locations designated
by the Clerk. Upon payment of the tax herein levied and imposed, the revenue
stamps so purchased shall be affixed to the deed or other instrument of
conveyance. Any person so using and affixing a revenue stamp or stamps shall
cancel it and so deface it so as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it
with his or her initials and the day, month and year when the affixing occurs.
Such markings shall be made in writing or stamping in indelible ink or by
perforating with a machine or punch. However, the revenue stamp(s) shall not be
so defaced as to prevent ready determination of its denomination and
genuineness.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994)
§ 96.52  PROCEEDS.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury of the
Village of Calumet Park and shall be credited to and deposited in the General
Fund of the village.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994)
§ 96.53  VIOLATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with any
provision of this subchapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined pursuant
to §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each occasion upon which a violation occurs.
(Ord. 94-640, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LICENSING PROVISIONS; FEES
         
111.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
         
112.   ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO
         
113.   HOTELS AND MOTELS
         
114.   GAMES, AMUSEMENTS AND OTHER BUSINESSES
         
115.   ITINERANT VENDORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
         
116.   FOOD SERVICE; SANITATION
         
117.   FLEA MARKETS
         
118.   GARAGE SALES; PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
         
119.   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL REGULATIONS
         
120.   CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE
         
121.   DEALERS IN SECOND HAND GOODS
         
122.   ADULT REGULATED USES
         
123.   ADULT-USE CANNABIS
CHAPTER 110:  LICENSING PROVISIONS; FEES
Section
General Licensing; Rates
   
110.01   Statement of purpose and jurisdiction
   
110.02   Application procedures
   
110.03   Business license fee schedule
   
110.04   Out of town business and contractor's fee
   
110.05   Additional regulations
Real Estate Brokers Licenses and the Like
   
110.20   Definition
   
110.21   License required
   
110.22   Signs
   
110.23   Application for license
   
110.24   Fee
   
110.25   Fraud
   
110.26   Discrimination
   
110.27   Revocation of license
   
110.28   Compliance by out-of-town brokers
   
110.29   Compliance by out-of-town salespersons
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL LICENSING; RATES
§ 110.01  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Because each business establishment located or operating in the
Village of Calumet Park is a basic part of and affects the physical and
economic well-being of the village, necessitating special services from the
village in the form of fire, health and police services and inspections, such
business establishments shall in all respects be in full compliance with the
provisions contained in this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter is designed to provide for the means whereby the
village may render the necessary inspections and services to business
establishments and commercial areas in order to promote, protect and safeguard
the public safety, health and welfare of the residents of Calumet Park and to
enable the village to keep an accurate record of business establishments
located and operating business activities or commerce within the village so as
to provide for an efficient allocation of village resources.
   (C)   The business license fees provided for herein are not intended to be
construed as an endorsement or regulation of the competency, professional
qualifications or skill of any individual, company, corporation or other
entity.
(Ord. 00-735, passed 3-23-2000)
§ 110.02  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for all business licenses required by this subchapter
shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk on the form to be provided by the
Village Clerk.
      (1)   The cost for applying for a business license shall be $100 which is
due at the time the application is filed with the village.
      (2)   The $100 fee shall be for the purpose of defraying any and all
costs which the village may incur as a result of the consideration and
investigation of the application. The $100 fee is nonrefundable.
      (3)   If the Chief of Police requires a fingerprint check based upon the
applicant's criminal background, the applicant is required to pay an additional
$50 to cover the costs of obtaining the fingerprint request. The $50
fingerprint cost must be paid prior to the completion of the application
process and is nonrefundable. Only one applicant will be allowed per
application, all subsequent applicants under the same business name or address
must pay their own application fee(s) as stated above.
   (B)   Each application shall contain such information as may be required for
the proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing of the business
license applied for, including, but not limited to such information as:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The business location;
      (3)   The total floor/land area of the establishment;
      (4)   The number of any certificate of registration required under the
Retailer's Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act and/or Use Tax Act,
if applicable;
      (5)   If the applicant is a corporation there shall be attached to the
application a copy of the applicant's articles of incorporation and a
resolution authorizing the application for a business license pursuant to this
subchapter; and
      (6)   If the application is for the purpose of operating a business or
providing a service which requires a state license, state certificate or
professional certification by the State of Illinois or any agency thereof, the
applicant must provide an original or a certified copy of any such license or
certificate.
   (C)   Forms for all business licenses and the business license applications
shall be prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk. Each business license
issued, pursuant to this subchapter, shall bear the signature of the Mayor and
the Village Clerk, in the absence of any provisions to the contrary.
   (D)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a business license where an
investigation or an inspection is required by ordinance for the issuance of the
business license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Village Clerk, within 48 hours of the
receipt of the application, shall refer it to the appropriate official(s) for
the making of the investigation or inspection. Inspections may be required by
any or all of the following village officials:
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   The Police Chief;
         (c)   The Fire Chief;
         (d)   The Building Inspector;
         (e)   The Health Inspector; and
         (f)   The Water Collector.
      (2)   Any officials making an inspection, pursuant to the preceding
paragraph, shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within 30 days
after receiving the application. If delay, applicant will be notified.
      (3)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Village
Clerk shall forward the reports, together with the application, to the Trustee
designated as License Chairperson for evaluation and determination.
   (E)   (1)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters
and circumstances relating to an application require further information before
a proper determination can be made, the application shall be returned to the
Village Clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be deemed
necessary and appropriate.
      (2)   If after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove the application, indicating the reasons for such
disapproval. The Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the
applicant that his or her or its application is disapproved and that no
business license will be issued.
      (3)   If after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, they shall approve the
application, thereupon the Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify
the applicant that his or her or its application is approved and the business
license will be issued upon payment of the appropriate fees.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of every person conducting business in the
village to keep the business license certificate issued pursuant to this
subchapter posted in a prominent place upon the premises used for such business
at all times.
   (G)   In the absence of a provision to the contrary, all fees and charges
for business license certificates shall be paid upon approval of the
application therefor in the amounts prescribed in the schedule set forth in §
110.03 below.
      (1)   When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until
after the expiration of part of the current business license year, the business
license certificate fee shall be prorated as follows:
         (a)   Any business which commences operation between February 1 and
August 31 shall pay the entire annual license fee; and
         (b)   Any business which commences operation between September 1 and
February 28  shall pay one-half of the annual business license fee.
      (2)   All annual business license certificates shall commence on February
1 each year and shall terminate on January 31 of the following year where no
provision to the contrary is made.
   (H)   Except as otherwise provided, all business license certificate fees
shall become a part of the corporate fund. In no event shall any rebate or
refund be made of any such fees or any part thereof by reason of death or
departure of the license holder nor shall any rebate or refund be made by
reason of the non-use of the business license or discontinuance of the
operation or conduct of the licensed establishment business or activity.
   (I)   Whenever the number of vehicles is used as the basis, in whole or in
part, for a business license a proof of purchase for required vehicle stickers,
pursuant to the Village of Calumet Park Vehicle Sticker Ordinance, must be
received prior to the issuance of the business license and such tag or sticker
shall be posted or affixed in accordance with the Village of Calumet Park
Vehicle Sticker Ordinance in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle.
   (J)   The Village Clerk shall notify all license certificate holders of the
village at the time of the expiration of the business license held by the
licensee three weeks prior to the date of the expiration, provided however,
that a failure to make such a notification or the failure of the licensee to
receive it shall not excuse the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new
business license certificate or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in
an action based upon a claim of operation without a business license
certificate.
   (K)   No business license certificate shall be issued or renewed for the
conduct of any business for any purpose or activity if the premises and
building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the Village of Calumet Park in the State of
Illinois.
   (L)   No license or permit shall be issued to any person unless and until
such person discharges and pays to the village all indebtedness then due from
such person.
   (M)   No license or permit shall be issued to any person if that person, or
a corporation for which that person was an officer, has had a business or
liquor license revoked by the town or any municipality in the state within the
five years preceding the current application.
(Ord. 00-735, passed 3-23-2000; Ord. 01-771, passed 11-20-2001; Ord. 09-978,
passed 4-9-2009; Ord. 14-1098, passed 2-27-2014; Ord. 18-1216, passed 12-31-
2018)
§ 110.03  BUSINESS LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Rules and definitions.
      (1)   This subchapter applies to business establishments or business
entities which may or may not have their principal place of business located
within the Village of Calumet Park.
      (2)   Business license fees based upon square foot area are based on the
presumption that the services provided by the village to the business licensees
are the same regardless of the nature of the activity being conducted within
each such commercial space. However, the fee schedule may be based on
additional factors other than square foot area of the business establishments.
Other fees charged are set out specifically for those activities as identified
in division (B)(2) below.
      (3)   The language set forth in the text of this section shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
         (a)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular;
         (b)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the
future, the present;
         (c)   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive;
         (d)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter;
         (e)   All measurements are expressed in square feet and shall be to
the nearest integral square foot; if a fraction is one-half square foot or
more, the integral square foot next above shall be taken;
         (f)   Any business activity, retail service, manufacturing, wholesale
and/or storage, which is conducted within the village whose principal place of
business may or may not be located within the village is subject to the
provisions of this subchapter; and
         (g)   A commercial establishment under this subchapter is deemed to be
any person, company, firm or partnership, corporation or other legal entity
chartered, licensed, incorporated or declared to be in existence for the
purpose of making a profit from their activities.
      (4)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACCESSORY USE.  A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of a building located on the same lot with the principal use of
the building;
         FLOOR AREA.  The sum total of the gross horizontal areas of all of the
several floors of the building and its accessory buildings measured in square
feet from the exterior faces or from the center line of party walls separating
two buildings or business establishments on each of the respective floors, and
shall include the basement floor, cellar floor, motor vehicle parking space
when such space is used in conjunction with a drive-in commercial
establishment, and commercial establishments, devoted to the sale, service and/
or repair of motor vehicles, floor space used for mechanical equipment, whether
open or enclosed, penthouse attic space, balconies, mezzanines, porches and
verandas, floor area devoted to and occupied by accessory uses.
         FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT.  A commercial establishment in which
food is processed, prepared, packaged or distributed for human consumption.
This does not include a food service establishment or a retail food store.
         FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any place where food that is intended for
individual service and consumption is routinely provided completely prepared.
The term includes any such place, regardless of whether consumption is in, on
or off the premisses and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
The term does not include a private home where food is prepared for individual
family consumption and it does not include the location of food vending
machines or retail food store that does not cook or combine ready-to-eat
potentially hazardous foods for human consumption.
         FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT, TEMPORARY.  Any food service establishment
which operates for a temporary period of time not to exceed two weeks in
connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition or similar
transitory gatherings.
         MANUFACTURING BUSINESSES.  Any activity where a product is produced
for distribution to any wholesale, retail or service business.
         OFFICE.  Any service performed or rendered, whether for profit,
control or nonprofit. Common uses found in this definition shall include, but
not necessarily be limited to the following activities:
            1.   Insurance, real estate, financial institutions, finance
companies and other similar business and professional offices;
            2.   Medical clinics, doctors, dentists, lawyers, accountants,
architects, designers' offices;
            3.   Business offices, such as district offices, sales offices or
branch offices; and
            4.   Any multiple use of the same office facilities will require an
individual registration for each separate use. Accounting records will be used
to determine if separate or multiple uses are being conducted in the same
office facilities.
         OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in a
commercial establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
         RESTAURANT, BANQUET HALL.  A food service establishment which caters
to groups of people who are there for a specific purpose which may or may not
include the consumption of food.
         RESTAURANT, CAFETERIA.  A food service establishment where the food is
served from various types of containers while the customer passes along a line
of such foods which are on display for his or her choice. The customer enters
the building, picks up a tray, follows the line, makes his or her food
selection, carries the tray to the table and then consumes the food.
         RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT.  A food service establishment where the
customer either preorders his or her selection or places an order in person.
The food is packaged and the customer carries out the food off of the premises.
         RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN/FAST FOOD.  A food service establishment with or
without interior facilities for eating which permits the consumption of food
either in the customer's automobile parked on the premises or in any other
additional designated area on the premises.
         RESTAURANT, FULL SERVICE.  Where the customer is seated, a waiter or
waitress takes his or her order, brings his or her food and after the customer
has consumed same, clears the table in preparation for the next customer. All
food is consumed inside of the establishment.
         RESTAURANT, SNACK BAR.  A food service establishment with limited food
selection, with no interior or exterior facilities, where the customer places
an order at a counter for immediate consumption.
         RETAIL FOOD STORE. A grocery store, meat market, poultry market, fish
market, fresh fruit and vegetable market, confectionery, nut store, bakery or
any other establishment whether fixed or moveable, where food, intended for
human consumption off the premises, is prepared, handled, transported, sold or
offered for sale at retail.
         RETAIL SALES.  The exchange of any commodity for a price or fee by a
seller to a consumer.
         SERVICE BUSINESS.  Any service performed or rendered for a price or
fee whether or not a commodity is worked upon or exchanged.
         WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE.  Any other business or business activity
between raw material to delivery to the final customer.
      (5)   If a business license fee due pursuant to this subchapter remains
unpaid more than five days after its due date, it will be subject to a penalty
for late payment of $15 or 25% of the amount due, whichever is greater.
Delinquency may also result in suspension and/or revocation of the right to
conduct commercial activities within the village.
   (B)   License fees.
      (1)   Schedule. Minimum license fee schedule shall be based on square
feet of floor/land area as defined in this subchapter. Total area applicable
for determination of the yearly license fee shall include the sum total of all
area in use or reserved for or retained for the use of the commercial
establishment, including but not restricted to principal and accessory area,
cellars, basements, storage or detached accessory buildings, even though any
such floor area may be temporarily vacant or not in use. Commercial and
industrial establishments using surface area of land for storage, display and/
or sales and service shall be based on square feet of area.
 
Classification      Step Floor/Land Area in Square Feet Yearly License Fee
Machine/assembly    1    1 to 3,000                     $150
Shop, manufacturing 2    3,001 to 9,000                 $200
Warehousing         3    9,001 to 30,000                $400
Fabricating         4    30,001 to 80,000               $500
–                 5    80,001 and over                $1,000
 
      (2)   Business license fee based on factors other than square footage.
The business license fees enumerated in this section are for establishments or
activities which cannot feasibly be determined on a square foot basis or are
additional fees for special categories plus the square foot area fee. The
business establishments listed in this section may or may not have their
principal place of business located within the village but are conducting
commercial activities or business within the Village of Calumet Park.
Categories Annual Fee
Categories                                           Annual Fee
                                                     (Provided for in
Advertising signs, bench billboards                  Ch. 150 including
                                                     amendments-if any)
Apartment Building Management Office                 $150
Asphalt/concrete contractor; plus storage, per       $150; $0.05
square foot
Auctioneer, per day                                  $150
Automobile accessories                               $210
Automobile and bus rental                            $150 plus the required
                                                     vehicle stickers
Automobile filling station                           $1,000
  Plus grocery store (retail food store)            $280
  Plus restaurant fast food                         $280
  Plus car wash                                     $280
Automobile repair shop (all service, oil change,     $210
muffler repair and the like)
Automobile sales, new                                $700
    Used                                           $350
Automotive paint shop                                $210
Bakery                                               $150
Bank/financial                                       $700
Barber and/or beauty shop                            $150; plus state license
                                                     for each stylist
Bus or limousine service (other than governmental):   
  One to five vehicles                              $450 plus the required
                                                     vehicle stickers
  Over five vehicles, each                          $70 plus the required
                                                     vehicle stickers
Business license filing fee                          $250
Business yearly fire inspection                      $50 charged with yearly
                                                     license fee
Candy store                                          $150
Car wash                                              
  One stall - hand wash                             $280
  Multi stalls                                      $500
Carnival/circuses                                    $420
Cell phone sales/repair                              $150
Child care services                                  $150
Christmas tree sales                                 $200
  Plus $500 bond as guarantee that the applicant shall restore the premises to
its original condition after the Christmas season. The village shall require an
inspection of the premises by the Fire Department and upon failure of the
licensee to so restore the premises, the bond shall be forfeited.
Cigars, cigarettes, tobacco products                 $200 plus state license
Clothing store                                       $150
Construction contractor - in town                    $100
Construction contractor - out of town                $100
Construction general contractor - out of town        $200
Consulting service (counseling, income tax and the   $150
like)
Currency exchange                                    $150
Distributors: beverage distributors; exterminators;  $200 plus required vehicle
food vendors; liquor distributors; junk truck;       stickers
taxicabs; tow trucks
Doctor/dentist office                                $200 plus state license
Drug store                                           $150 plus state license
  Plus general merchandise                          $150
  Plus retail food store                            $210
Dry cleaners                                         $150
Electronic sales/repair (home appliance, radio, TV,  $210
microwave and the like)
Florist shop                                         $150
Fruit/vegetable sales                                $150
Funeral home                                         $700 plus state license
General merchandise  (non-food items)               $150
Grocery store (retail food store)                    $700
Hardware paint store                                 $150
Health food store                                    $150
Heating/air conditioning                             $150
Home business (telephone sales i.e. Tupperware, Avon $150
etc.)
Ice cream parlor/vendor                              $150 plus the required
                                                     vehicle stickers
Insurance agency                                     $150
Landscaper/lawn service                              $150 plus the required
                                                     vehicle stickers
Laundromat                                           $150
  Plus coin operated license for each coin operated $150
machine
Law offices                                          $150
Lumberyard (sales)                                   $420
  Plus storage per square foot                      $0.05
  Storage only                                      $300
  Plus storage per square foot                      $0.05
Medical center                                       $150
Mobile home park                                     $2,800, see
                                                     Ch. 153
Motel/hotel                                          $150
  Plus per unit                                     $40
Newspaper distributor                                $560
Parking lots/garages                                 $150
  Spaces 26 or more, per each space                 $1.50
Plumbing sales                                       $120
Print shop                                           $150
Real estate office                                   $150
Rental service                                       $150
  Plus storage per square foot                      $0.05
Restaurants                                           
  Full service, carry-out                           $450
  Full service with drive-through                   $830
Roofing sales                                        $150
  Retail/wholesale plus storage per square foot     $0.05
Scavenger, commercial                                $830
Schools - for the intent of teaching an art (dance,  $150
Judo/Karate and the like)
Security services (guards, investigators and the     $150 plus required state
like)                                                license
Sheet metal shop                                     $280
Shoe repair shop                                     $150
Snow removal                                         $150 plus the required
                                                     vehicle sticker
Solicitors and canvassers                             
  Per year                                          $150
  Per day                                           $15
Storage yards (including vehicles and trailers):      
  Sales and storage                                 $420
  Plus storage per square foot                      $0.05
  Storage only                                      $280
  Plus storage per square foot                      $0.05
Towing service                                       $200 plus the required
                                                     vehicle stickers
Travel agency office                                 $150
Truck/freight terminal                               $420 plus required vehicle
                                                     stickers
Vending and coin-operated machines (pop, candy,      $200
snacks, ice machine, pool table, juke box etc.)
Video gaming machines                                $1,000 see Ordinance 12-
                                                     1063
Warehousing (storage of supplies, materials,         $0.05
equipment and the like)
An application for a business license for any entity not specifically listed in
this section, shall be
charged the fee applicable to a business that most closely describes the
applicant's business,
but in no case less than $100
Please note where appropriate, an applicant for a business license certificate
may be charged for more than one category
 
      (3)   Responsibility of owner; lessor; occupant.
         (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, lessor and occupant
of any premises to ensure that the required business license certificate and
business license fees have been paid for any and all persons occupying or
operating out of those premises.
         (b)   In the event that a person is found not to have been issued the
required business license certificate or not to have paid business license
fees, the premises for that person or its machines as situated may be closed by
the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of division (3)(c) following. Those
premises may be closed whether or not the person violating the provisions is
the major owner or tenant of the premises, the intent of this section being
that the owner, lessor and occupant of the premises shall be responsible for
all parties occupying the same to see that the proper business license
certificate and business license fees are obtained and paid.
         (c)   Any business operating within the Village of Calumet Park
without a business license certificate, or with a business license certificate,
but failing to pay business license fees, shall be issued a notice in writing
stating that it is in default under its obligations pursuant to this
subchapter, and it has 30 days to correct the default.
            1.   Should it fail to correct the default within 30 days that its
premises may be closed by order of the Mayor of the Village of Calumet Park.
            2.   The notice must be delivered personally or by certified mail
to the owner of the premises, the operator of the business located on the
premises or any agent or employee operating the business on the premises. Any
business closed by order of the Mayor pursuant to this section may be allowed
to reopen upon the curing of any defaults as stated in the notice along with
payment of an administrative reinstatement fee of $50.
      (4)   Business license certificate required for each location or separate
business.
         (a)   No business license certificate for the operation of a business
or establishment in the village shall be construed to permit the operation of a
business or establishment in more than one location in the village.
         (b)   A separate business license certificate shall be required for
each location of a business establishment.
         (c)   For the purpose of this section, the existence of a single
location shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the
principal or accessory uses shall be connected or shall be located on the same
lot or parcel, shall be operated and managed by the same person or owner, and
shall be an establishment with the same classification.
         (d)   Where two or more separate businesses, separately owned or
operated share floor/land space in the same building or on the same parcel
ground, then each shall be deemed a separate business and shall be required to
obtain a separate business license certificate based on the square foot area of
each separate use and/or based on the fee schedule contained in division (B)(2)
above.
(Ord. 00-735, passed 3-23-2000; Ord. 12-1063, passed 9-13-2012; Ord. 14-1098,
passed 2-27- 2014; Ord. 15-1120, passed 2-26-2015; Ord. 18-1195, passed 1-11-
2017)
§ 110.04  OUT OF TOWN BUSINESS AND CONTRACTOR'S FEE.
   (A)   Any business or contractor who has no office or place of business
permanently located within the corporate limits of the village if on an
occasional basis, a temporary basis or a case by case basis, shall be required
to pay a fee as an out-of-town business or contractor in accordance with the
following schedule:
 
Contractors                                                     Annual Fee
All other contractors, subcontractors and/or service businesses $100
Building demolition                                             $300
General contractors                                             $200
Real estate brokers                                             $200
Residential garage only                                         $100
 
   (B)   Applications for out-of-town business or contractor certificates
required by this subchapter shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk on a
form to be provided by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The number of any certificate of registration required under the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act and/or Use Tax Act,
if applicable;
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation, there shall be attached to the
application a copy of the applicant's articles of incorporation; and
      (4)   If the application is for the purpose of providing service or
operating as a contractor which requires a state license, state certificate or
professional certification by the State of Illinois or any agency thereof, the
applicant must provide an original or certified copy of any such license or
certificate. The following list contains examples of businesses which come
under the requirements of this paragraph:
         (a)   Real estate broker;
         (b)   Building contractor;
         (c)   Sub-contractor;
         (d)   Drywall contractor;
         (e)   Electrical contractor;
         (f)   Excavating contractor;
         (g)   Plumbing contractor; and
         (h)   Security systems contractors.
   (D)   Each application for an out-of-town contractor certificate required by
this subchapter shall be accompanied by proof of liability insurance in an
amount at least twice the cost of the work to be performed, but in no case less
than $100,000.
(Ord. 00-735, passed 3-23-2000)
§ 110.05  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Every licensee, and every officer, shareholder, associate, member, agent,
representative and employee of every licensee under this chapter, shall be
subject to the following regulations, and all persons shall likewise be subject
to the applicable regulations set forth below. As used in this section, the
term LICENSEE shall be deemed to include every officer, shareholder, associate
member, agent, representative and employee of the licensee.
   (A)   Every licensee shall conduct his or her place of business in a quiet,
decent and respectable manner and shall eject therefrom or refuse admittance
thereto all persons rendering themselves objectionable or undesirable by reason
of undue noise or other acts disturbing the peace.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to give or deliver any alcoholic
liquor or intoxicating beverages to a person under the influence of
intoxicating liquor. Soliciting of drinks or prostitution is prohibited.
   (C)   Every licensee shall immediately report to the Police Department any
act by a person or patron which renders the person or patron objectionable,
causes undue noise or disturbance, breaches the peace or is otherwise unlawful.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any waiter,
waitress, bartender, entertainer or other employee or person to commit any of
the acts declared to be unlawful in this section. A person shall be deemed to
be a waiter, waitress, bartender or entertainer if the person acts in that
capacity without regard to whether or not the person is paid any compensation
by the management of the establishment in which the activity is performed.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any act or
form of entertainment which, when considered as whole, would be considered
obscene (for example, entertainment which predominantly appeals to prurient
interests), as such tern is defined by state law.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any of the
following:
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to suffer or permit any species
of gambling on his or her premises or any part thereof, or on any places
adjacent thereto that are under his or her control. Nothing in this division
shall prohibit any person from playing, using, owning, maintaining or
transporting a video gaming terminal as authorized in a licensed establishment
which is licensed pursuant to the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act
40, §§ 1 et seq., as hereinafter amended from time to time.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a license holder to employ any person under
the age of 21 in any capacity where the principal duty is the sale of alcoholic
liquor. In situations where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal
activity, but a secondary consideration, no person under the age of 18 may be
directly involved. No person under the age of 18 may be directly involved in
the sale or service of alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to bring or carry any weapon, or
to cause or allow any weapon to be stored, possessed or carried, within any
licensed premises where alcohol is consumed on the premises. A weapon is any
item so defined by ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1, as amended.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to be indebted in any way to the
village.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to
accept, receive or borrow money or anything else of value, directly or
indirectly, from any person connected with, or in any way representing, any
manufacturer or distributor of any coin-operated or amusement device who
installs or furnishes such devices for use on the licensed premises. This
section shall not apply to commissions or rental fees arising out of the use of
such coin-operated or amusement devices on licensed premises.
(Ord. 03-818, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. 12-1063, passed 9-13-2012; Ord. 17-1181,
passed 7-13-2017)
REAL ESTATE BROKERS LICENSES AND THE LIKE
§ 110.20  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER.  Any person, association, copartnership or corporation,
who for a consideration, sells or offers for sale or exchange of real estate,
or who leases, or offers to lease or rents or offers for rent any real estate,
or negotiates leases thereof, or of the improvements thereon for another or
others, or who employs any person as a real estate salesman to perform any of
the above acts.
   SALESPERSON.  Any person who for compensation or valuable consideration is
employed either directly or indirectly by a real estate broker engaged in the
business of buying, selling or leasing real estate or is engaged in the
business of negotiating the purchase, sale or exchange of real estate, or
leases or offers to lease, or rents or offers to rent, any real estate or
improvements thereon.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)
§ 110.21  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation or association shall operate as a real estate
broker or salesperson without having first obtained a license as herein
provided; provided that this subchapter shall not be construed to require an
additional broker's license for employees of a licensed broker.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)
§ 110.22  SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any real estate broker to erect or maintain any
sign on any real estate within the Village of Calumet Park without first having
obtained a village real estate broker's license.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for license required by this subchapter shall be made upon
forms provided by the Village Clerk, shall be signed and verified under oath by
the applicant, if an individual, and by the duly authorized agent, if a
partnership or corporation, and shall set forth the following:
      (1)   If a person, the name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   If a partnership, the name, residence and business address of each
partner;
      (3)   If a corporation, the name, date and state under whose laws such
corporation was organized and the names of the principal officers, directors
and local representatives, their residences and business addressed;
      (4)   The names and residences of all salesmen who will be operating
under the license applied for;
      (5)   Principal place of business of the applicant;
      (6)   Location or place of business for which the license is sought;
      (7)   The date and number of the State of Illinois real estate broker's
license;
      (8)   The experience the applicant has had in the real estate broker's
business; and
      (9)   The place or places and the time that applicant has been engaged in
the real estate broker's business.
   (B)   No such license shall be issued to any person who is not of good
character, and it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to make, or cause to
be made an investigation into the character of each such applicant. Each such
licensed real estate broker shall maintain a definite office or place of
business within the Village of Calumet Park for the transaction of real estate
business so conspicuously displayed with an identification sign on the oil side
of the office of adequate size and visibility and shall conspicuously display
his or her certificate in his or her office or place of business and also the
certificate of all real estate salespersons employed by him or her. The office
or place of business shall not be located in any retail sales establishment,
unless separated from the retail business as a separate and distinct area
within the establishment.
   (C)   Notice shall be given to the Village Clerk by any registrant of any
change of address and application shall be ended for issuance of a corrected
certificate. A change of business location without notice to the Village Clerk
and without issuance by him or her of a new certificate shall automatically
cancel the certificate theretofore issued.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)
§ 110.24  FEE.
   The annual fee for the real estate broker's license shall be $250; the
annual fee for the real estate salesperson's license shall be $100. No license
shall be issued until payment of the fee in full.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)
§ 110.25  FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating as a real estate broker to
practice fraud or deception of any sort or to make false pretenses of any kind,
or to represent both parties to a transaction without the consent and knowledge
of both parties.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26  DISCRIMINATION.
   It shall be an unfair housing practice and unlawful for any real estate
broker or salesperson licensed as such by the village:
   (A)   To make any distinction, discrimination or restriction against any
person in price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the
sale, rental, lease or occupancy of any real estate used for residential
purposes in the village, or in furnishing any facilities or services in
connection therewith predicated upon the race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry of the prospective or actual buyer or tenant thereof;
   (B)   To publish, circulate, issue or display or cause to be published,
circulated or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign or
writing of any kind relating to the sale, rental or leasing of any residential
real property within the village which would indicate or express any limitation
or discrimination in the sale, rental or leasing of the residential real estate
predicated upon the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry of any
such prospective buyer, lessee or renter of any such property;
   (C)   To refuse to sell, lease or rent real estate for residential purposes
within the village because of the race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry of any proposed buyer or renter;
   (D)   To discriminate or to participate in discrimination in connection with
borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any residential housing
unit or housing accommodation of the village because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry of the borrower;
   (E)   To cheat, exploit or overcharge any person for residential housing
accommodations in the village because of race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry of the person;
   (F)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for sale or lease any
residential real estate within the village on the ground of loss of value due
to the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person or
persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry;
   (G)   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in the
village to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry of
persons in the neighborhood; and
   (H)   To deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of any leasing of
residential real estate within the village to any person because of race,
color, religion, rational origin or ancestry.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued pursuant to this subchapter may be revoked by the Mayor
for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the application
for license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course and
conduct of the business herein regulated;
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter;
   (D)   Conviction of a felony or misdemeanor indicating a disregard for the
public welfare;
   (E)   Conducting the business herein regulated in an unlawful manner or in
such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a Menace
to the health, safety or general welfare of the public; provided, however, that
the Mayor shall first notify the licensee of the violation and shall conduct a
hearing after dot less than five days notice. All final administrative
decisions of the Mayor of the village shall be subject to judicial review
pursuant to the Administrative Review Act approved May 8, 1945, and all
amendments and modifications thereof and the Rules adopted Pursuant thereto.
The term ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION is defined in § 1 of the Administrative Review
Act. The proceedings for judicial review shall be commenced in the Circuit
Court of Cook County.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)
§ 110.28  COMPLIANCE BY OUT-OF-TOWN BROKERS.
   Any real estate broker not licensed by the village who shall exercise any
function of a real estate broker within the village shall be deemed a broker
hereunder, and subject to all applicable provisions hereof.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)
§ 110.29  COMPLIANCE BY OUT-OF-TOWN SALESPERSONS.
   Any real estate salesperson not licensed by the village who shall exercise
any function of a real estate salesman within the village shall be deemed a
salesman hereunder, and subject to all applicable provisions hereof.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.04 shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person licensed under the provisions of §§
110.20 through
110.29 who is guilty of a violation of any provision of this subchapter shall
be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during on or which a violation occurs or continues; and upon a second
offense being committed, the Village Council may revoke the license of that
person.
(Ord. 75-210, passed 5-22-1975; Ord. 00-735, passed 3-23-2000; Ord. 20-1236,
passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 111:  MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Price marking and display for retail sale of consumer commodities
   
111.02   Sale of obscene publications to minors
   
111.03   Construction; automotive service stations; requirements
   
111.04   Operating hours of certain businesses
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  PRICE MARKING AND DISPLAY FOR RETAIL SALE OF CONSUMER COMMODITIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADVERTISEMENT.  Includes any offer to sell a consumer commodity to the
public at retail by means of any form of public notice however disseminated or
utilized.
      COMPARATIVE PRICING.  The use of two prices in advertising, the selling
price and the reference price.
      COMPUTER WAREHOUSE.  A warehouse with a data processing system for the
control and distribution of inventory.
      CONSUMER COMMODITY.  Any article, product or commodity of any kind or
class, which is produced or distributed for sale at retail.
      PERSON.  Any individual, association, partnership or corporation.
      REFERENCE PRICE.  An advertised price to which a selling price is
compared in advertising which employs comparative pricing. REFERENCE PRICE
shall include the use of terms such as: if perfect, list price, regular price,
full price, retail price, former price or words of similar import.
      SELLING PRICE.  The price at which a consumer commodity is sold at retail
on any given date. In the case of commodities weighed by retailers, the SELLING
PRICE shall only be computed by using the price per one pound as the basis for
the sale; provided that the metric system may be employed where customary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display for sale any consumer
commodity unless the selling price of the consumer commodity is accurately
stated in a clear and conspicuous manner upon the consumer commodity, and
further provided, that the selling price shall be stated on a sign contiguous
to the point of display of the consumer commodity.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any consumer
commodity when the selling price is electronically coded upon the consumer
commodity, and provided the selling price of the consumer commodity shall have
been conspicuously displayed upon the point of display of all those consumer
commodities.
      (2)   Consumer commodities sold through vending machines shall have the
selling price of the consumer commodities conspicuously displayed upon the
vending machine dispensing the consumer commodity.
      (3)   When any consumer commodity whether electronically coded or not is
sold out-of-doors, the selling price of such consumer commodity shall be stated
in numerals on signs contiguous to the point of display, which numerals shall
be not less than three inches in height and one and one-half inches in width.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a 'sale' or other
temporary change in prices unless the duration of the sale or other temporary
change in terms of time is disclosed by stating the number of days or
termination date. Provided, however, that where a termination date has been
advertised in good faith, the date may be extended.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a reference price
unless: the reference price is disclosed in a clear and conspicuous manner or
can be readily ascertained by disclosure of the dollar, fraction or percentage
reduction in prices.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a reference price
based on sales of the identical article unless the reference price is the
actual price at which the article was offered to the public by the advertiser
or by principal competing persons in the advertiser's trade area for a
reasonably substantial period of time in the recent regular course of business,
honestly and in good faith.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise a reference price
based on sales of a comparable article unless:
      (1)   The two articles are, in fact, substantially identical in all
significant respects and the comparability can be established by reference to
generally accepted standards of identity or performance or otherwise; and
      (2)   The reference price of the comparable article is the actual price
at which the article was offered to the public by the advertiser or by
principal competing persons in the advertiser's trade area for a reasonably
substantial period of time in the recent regular course of business, honestly
and In good faith.
   (G)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise in a manner
which expressly or impliedly offers lowered prices on commodities as a result
of some unusual circumstances, unless the circumstances are true and the
advertised prices are actually lower than the advertisers' usual prices.
      (2)   UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES shall include, but is not limited to terms
such as SPECIAL PURCHASE, EXCEPTIONAL PURCHASE, CLEARANCE and MANUFACTURER'S
CLOSE OUT.
   (H)   The provisions of Village of Calumet Park this section shall not apply
to a price reduction which results from a retailer's purchase of a consumer
commodity in bulk or in large scale or at a discount or under similar
conditions and where that price reduction remains in effect while the inventory
from that purchase is available for sale.
(Ord. 78-291, passed 12-14-1978; Ord. 83-409, passed 6-21-1983; Ord. 01-754,
passed 1-25-2001)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02  SALE OF OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or association knowingly to
exhibit, sell, offer to sell, give away, circulate, obscene or distribute or
attempt to distribute to any person under the publications age of 18 years, any
obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card, advertisement,
circular, print, picture, photograph, motion picture film, play, image,
instrument, statute, drawing or other material. OBSCENE for the purpose of this
section is defined as follows: whether to the average person under 18 years ,
of the age of the person to whom the material is exhibited, sold, offered for
sale, given away, circulated or distributed, applying contemporary community
standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to
prurient interests.
(Ord. 77-261, passed 6-23-1977)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  CONSTRUCTION; AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATIONS; REQUIREMENTS.
   No permit for the construction of an automotive service station shall be
issued unless the rear portion of the property upon which the automotive
service station is to be constructed is adjacent to a public alley.
(Ord. 69-101, passed 7-16-1969)
§ 111.04  OPERATING HOURS OF CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any gasoline service station, grocery
store, meat market, dairy store, produce store, self service laundry or fast
food carry out restaurant to remain open for business during the hours of 1:00
a.m. to 5:00 a.m., provided, however, gasoline service stations may remain open
for business during the hours of 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. if the gasoline service
stations fully comply with the rules and regulations of the Village of Calumet
Park as amended from time to time with respect to the hours of operation.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)(1) above, it shall
be unlawful for any unattended businesses within the Village of Calumet Park,
including but not limited to self-service laundromats, to remain open for
business during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. on Sunday through Thursday
nights and 11:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights.
   (B)   The definitions of those businesses shall be the same as in the Zoning
Ordinance of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (C)   The owner, operator or manager of any such business shall be
responsible to see that the business remains closed during the aforesaid hours.
(Ord. 75-203, passed 2-27-1975; Ord. 02-778, passed 2-14-2002)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty is
prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of any violation of §
111.01 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each such offense. Each day an offense is committed shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
111.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 or be imprisoned for a period not exceeding six months or be both so
fined and imprisoned. Each day that the violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. If more than one publication prohibited hereunder shall be sold,
offered for sale, exhibited, given away or in any way furnished or attempted to
be furnished to any such person in violation of §
111.02, the sale, offer, exhibiting, giving away or in any way furnishing or
attempting to furnish to any such person of each separate publication
prohibited hereunder shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished
as such hereunder.
   (D)   Any violation of §
111.04 shall be punished by a fine pursuant to §
10.99; on each day a violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 75-203, passed 2-27-1975; Ord. 77-261, passed 6-23-1977; Ord. 78-291,
passed 12-14-1978; Ord. 83-409, passed 6-21-1983; Ord. 01-754, passed 1-25-
2001; Ord. 02-778, passed 2-14-2002; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO
Section
General Requirements
   
112.01   Designating certain municipal buildings where liquor may be sold
   
112.02   Sale of individual quantities of tobacco and alcohol prohibited
   
112.03   Beverage alcohol sellers and servers education and training program
Alcoholic Liquor
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   Exceptions to subchapter
   
112.17   Liquor Control Commissioner; powers and duties
   
112.18   License required
   
112.19   Privilege granted by license
   
112.20   Application for license
   
112.21   Classification and license fee
   
112.22   Number of licenses
   
112.23   Initial license expense
   
112.24   Investigation, rejection or approval of application for license
   
112.25   Renewal of license
   
112.26   Posting license
   
112.27   Persons ineligible for license
   
112.28   Availability of books and records
   
112.29   Sales to certain persons prohibited; proof of identity and age
   
112.30   Gathering where one or more persons are under 18 years of age
   
112.31   Revocation or suspension of local license
   
112.32   Complaint of violation
   
112.33   Transfer of location
   
112.34   Sales near churches, schools, and the like
   
112.35   Windows of licensed premises to be unobstructed
   
112.36   Conformity to Building Code
   
112.37   Hours of operation
   
112.38   Live entertainment prohibited
   
112.39   Solicitation prohibited
   
112.40   Temporary permits
   
112.41   Record review
Distribution of Tobacco Products to Minors
   
112.50   Definitions
   
112.51   Prohibition on sale or distribution of tobacco products
   
112.52   Licensing of tobacco product retailers
   
112.53   Enforcement and administration
Regulation of Tobacco Products
   
112.65   Legislative finding and declaration
   
112.66   Definitions
   
112.67   License required
   
112.68   License application
   
112.69   License fee
   
112.70   Prohibited sales; delivery; signs
   
112.71   Minimum age to sell tobacco products
   
112.72   Purchase by minors prohibited
   
112.73   Possession by minors prohibited
   
112.74   Proximity to certain institutions
   
112.75   Certain free distributions prohibited
   
112.76   Vending machines; locking devices
   
112.77   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
112.78   Suspension; revocation; fines; costs
   
112.79   Use of premises after revocation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 112.01  DESIGNATING CERTAIN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS WHERE LIQUOR MAY BE SOLD.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this subchapter the words or phrases used
herein shall have the same definition as contained in the Liquor Control Act of
1934, ILCS Ch. 235 Act 5, §§ 1-3 et seq.
   (B)   Buildings designated. The following buildings are hereby designated as
municipal buildings wherein alcoholic liquor may be sold or delivered:
      (1)   Village Hall 12409 S. Throop;
      (2)   Recreation Center 12426 S. Loomis;
      (3)   Senior Citizens Center 12637 S. Ashland;
      (4)   Fire Station 12457 S. Ashland; and
      (5)   Village Pool 12445 S. Morgan.
(Ord. 87-490, passed 12-15-1987)
§ 112.02  SALE OF INDIVIDUAL QUANTITIES OF TOBACCO AND ALCOHOL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Sale of tobacco products other than in sealed packages. No retailer
may break or otherwise open any cigarette or smokeless tobacco package to sell
or distribute individual cigarettes, or a number of unpackaged cigarettes that
is smaller than the minimum cigarette package size of 20 cigarettes, or any
quantity of cigarette tobacco or smokeless tobacco that is less than the
smallest package distributed by the manufacturer for individual consumer use.
   (B)   Prohibition of sale of individual quantities of alcohol. No retailer
may sell an individual can or bottle of beer, or any number of unpackaged
alcohol containers that is less than the smallest package distributed by the
manufacturer for individual consumer use.
(Ord. 02-801, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 112.03  BEVERAGE ALCOHOL SELLERS AND SERVERS EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   For licenses on or after August 1, 2016, and all original or renewal
applications for all classes of liquor licenses shall be accompanied with proof
of completion of a state certified Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training (BASSET) program for all persons who sell or serve
alcoholic beverages, all management personnel working on premises, and anyone
whose job description entails the checking of identification for the purchases
of alcoholic beverages, pursuant to that license.
   (B)   A state certified BASSET training program shall be defined as a BASSET
program licensed by the State of Illinois Liquor Control Commission (ILCC) as
required by ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 3-12(11.1) and 6-27 and Title 77 of
Illinois Administrative Code, Chapter XVI, § 3500. All licensed BASSET
providers shall be required to have on file all licenses and certificates to
prove current qualifications and provide a certificate of course completion and
a card (a picture type ID is optional), to participate as proof of completion.
   (C)   After August 1, 2016, any new owner, manager, employee, or agent
requiring BASSET training, shall within 90 days from the beginning of their
employment with that licensee, complete an ILCC BASSET approved seller/server
training program and shall until completion of the BASSET program work under
the supervision of a person who has completed BASSET training.
   (D)   A photo copy of certificate of completion for all owners, managers,
employees, or agents required by this section to have BASSET training shall be
maintained, by the establishment, in manner that will allowed inspection, upon
demand, by any designee of both the state or local liquor control authorities.
   (E)   Municipalities and establishments must honor all State of Illinois
Liquor Control Commission (ILCC) BASSET approved programs.
   (F)   Fines.
      (1)   Establishment fines. Fines will be assessed to the liquor license
holder as indicated below:
         (a)   First offense: $500 fine for the liquor license holder.
         (b)   Second offense: $1,000 fine in one rolling year period for the
liquor license holder and possible suspension of liquor license.
         (c)   Third offense: $2,000 fine in one rolling year period for the
liquor license holder and seven day suspension of liquor license.
         (d)   Fourth offense: revocation of liquor license.
      (2)   Individual fines. Fines will be assessed as indicated below:
         (a)   First offense: $50 fine for the BASSET license holder.
         (b)   Second offense: $100 fine in one rolling year BASSET license
holder.
         (c)   Third offense: $200 fine in one rolling year period for BASSET
license holder.
         (d)   Fourth offense: $500 in one rolling year period for the BASSET
license holder and revocation of liquor license for the liquor license holder.
(Ord. 06-902, passed 1-12-2006; Ord. 16-1148, passed 4-28-2016; Ord. 16-1158,
passed 9-8-2016)
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
§ 112.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOL LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB. A group of persons, or a corporation organized under the laws of this
state, not for pecuniary profit, or organized solely for the promotion of some
common object other than the sale of or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept,
used and maintained by its members and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests, and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment; provided, that such club files with the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner at the time of its application for original
license, or renewal thereof, a list of the names, resident address, and phone
number of its officers and members, and provided further that its affairs and
management are conducted by a Board of Directors, Executive Committee, or
similar board chosen by the members at their annual meeting, and that no
member, or any officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or
indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits
from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of
the club, or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at an annual meeting by the members, or by its Board
of Directors, or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   CONSUMPTION SALE. The sale or offering for sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   PACKAGE SALE. The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor in
the original package and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or in
part on the premises where sold.
   PERSON. A natural human being.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person, a group of persons, or a corporation who sell, or offers
for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or consumption and not for resale in any
form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, for a
consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL OR SALE AT RETAIL. "Sell at retail" and "sale at retail" refer to and
mean sales for use or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SERVICE OF FOOD. The service of meals for consumption only on the premises
in an adequate and sanitary kitchen as defined in any appropriate health or
food service ordinance of the village. The meals must consist of more than the
service or sale of packaged foods such as potato chips, pretzels, peanuts,
cheese and crackers, or frozen or premade foods such as pizzas, hamburgers or
sandwiches which can be prepared by being heated or warmed in an oven. And, the
meals must be actually and regularly served and eaten at tables and not only at
a bar or counter.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substances in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.16  EXCEPTIONS TO SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5%,
or less, of alcohol by volume, nor shall the provisions of this subchapter
apply to flavoring extracts, concentrates, syrups or medicinal, mechanical,
scientific, culinary or toilet preparations, or food products unfit for
beverage purposes, but the provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed
to exclude or not apply to alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture,
preparation or compounding of such products. The provisions of this subchapter
shall not apply to wine intended for use or used by any church or religious
organization for sacramental purposes, nor shall anything herein contained
prevent any duly licensed, practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using any alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession or
any hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased persons from
possessing alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients of such
hospital or other institution or prevent any licensed pharmacist from
possessing and using alcoholic liquors in the preparation of prescriptions
prescribed by duly licensed physicians.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.17  LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor of the village shall be the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner of the village and shall be charged with the administration of
this subchapter. He or she may designate one or more persons to assist him or
her in the exercise of such duties as he or she may deem necessary. The
compensation of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be fixed by
subchapter adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have
the following powers, functions and duties:
      (1)   To grant, suspend for not more than 60 days, or revoke for cause,
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, all local licenses or
permits issued to persons or corporations for premises within his or her
jurisdiction.
      (2)   To authorize any law enforcement officer or peace officer to enter
at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder, to determine whether any of
the provisions of this subchapter or any rules or regulations adopted by the
Local Liquor Commissioner or by any other agency having the authority to do so
have been or are being violated, and at the time of such entry to examine such
premises in connection therewith.
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen that any of the provisions
of this subchapter, or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto, or
any other applicable rules or regulations, have been or are being violated and
to act upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (4)   To deny any application for the issuance or renewal of a license to
an applicant he or she has determined to be ineligible therefor.
      (5)   To examine, or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof; or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served in the manner hereinafter provided;
and to examine or cause to be examined, any applicant or licensee, the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof
for his or her information in the performance of his or her duties, and for
such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this
state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or
her agent to act on his or her behalf.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.18  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, group of persons, or corporations shall sell, or offer for
sale, at retail any alcoholic liquor within the village without first having
obtained a liquor license as provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person, group of persons, or corporation operating more than one
place of business or location where alcoholic liquor shall be sold or offered
for sale, is required by this subchapter to have a separate license for each
such place of business or location.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.19  PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege with a term not to
exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this subchapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee,
provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court,
and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy
until the expiration of such license but not longer than six months after the
death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of
that portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee
shall be prevented from operating under such license in accordance with the
provisions of this division.
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and
provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Mayor and Board
of Trustees as the case may be, from decreasing the number of licenses to be
issued within the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.20  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person, or group of persons, or corporation, desiring to engage
in the business of selling alcoholic liquor at retail shall make application
for license in writing on forms furnished by the village. A separate
application for each place of business shall be made and shall be under oath
and shall be filed with the Village Clerk. Each applicant shall furnish under
oath the following information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and respective addresses of the officers and directors, certified copies of the
Articles of Incorporation.
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization.
      (3)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      (4)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application, and
the disposition of such application.
      (5)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of either a
misdemeanor nor a felony and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason
of any matter or thing contained in this subchapter, laws of this state, or
other ordinances of the village.
      (6)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been suspended or revoked, and the reasons
therefor.
      (7)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois or of the United States or any ordinance of the village
in the conduct of his or her place of business.
      (8)   The class of license desired by the applicant.
      (9)   Whether applicant owns the premises for which a license is sought,
and if he or she does not, the name of his or her landlord and the period of
his or her lease. A complete and correct copy of the lease is to be attached to
the application.
      (10)   Whether or not the applicant intends to manage and conduct the
business in person, and if not, the name of the manager or agent who is to
conduct the business to be carried on the premises for which the license is
sought.
      (11)   In addition to the foregoing information, the application shall
contain such other information as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
prescribe.
   (B)   In case the application is made by a partnership, all partners must
sign the application and the information required by this subchapter shall be
furnished as to each partner.
   (C)   In case the applicant is a corporation, the application shall be
signed by the president and secretary of the corporation.
   (D)   Every application for a license, whether new or renewal, where the
real estate title of the premises is in a trust, shall be accompanied by a
certified copy of the land trust, disclosing the names, residence addresses and
beneficial interest of each beneficiary.
   (E)   Every application for a license, whether new or renewal, shall have
attached thereto a certificate evidencing the issuance of Dram Shop Insurance
for the proposed licensee and owner of the premises if other than the licensee.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.21  CLASSIFICATION AND LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The licenses required by this subchapter shall be classified as
follows:
      (1)    Class "A" license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on specified premises for on premise consumption. The annual fee for the
renewal of such license shall be a single payment of $2,000, payable at the
time the application for such license is made.
      (2)   Class "B" license shall authorize the sale of packaged wine and
beer for off premise consumption. The annual fee for the renewal of such
license shall be a single payment of $800, payable at the time the application
for such license is made.
      (3)   Class "C" license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor at specified premises, but shall not permit consumption thereon or
adjacent thereto. The annual fee for the renewal of such license shall be a
single payment of $900, payable at the time the application for such license is
made.
      (4)   Class "D" license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor on specified premises for on-premise consumption on such premises only,
and provided such sale of alcoholic liquor shall be restricted to sales made in
conjunction with the licensee's operation of a restaurant on said specified
premises, and further provided that such sale of alcoholic liquor on such
premise shall be further restricted to service of such alcoholic liquor at
tables or booths only. The annual fee for the renewal of such license shall be
a single payment of $900, payable at the time the application for such license
is made.
      (5)   Class "E" license shall authorize the sale of packaged beer for off
premise consumption. The annual fee for the renewal of such license shall be a
single payment of $700, payable at the time the application for such license is
made.
      (6)   A one-time fee for the first license listed to a new licensee for
all classes of licenses listed in divisions (A)(1) through (5) preceding, shall
be $2,000.
   (B)   All license fees and initial license expense, pursuant to §
112.23 following, shall be payable in advance, at the time the application for
the license is made. Every license shall expire on April 30 following its
issuance. A copy of a current State of Illinois Liquor License is required at
renewal. All license fees shall be paid at the office of the Village Clerk. In
the event a license is not issued, any license fees paid with an application,
except the initial license expense as required by §
112.23 of this subchapter, shall be refunded to an applicant. All license fees
collected by the Village Clerk shall be forthwith paid to the Village Treasurer
and the Village Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses issued.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016; Ord. 16-1140, passed 1-14-2016; Ord. 18-1197,
passed 1-11- 2017; Ord. 18-1206, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 112.22  NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)    The total number of Class A licenses to be issued under this
subchapter shall not exceed seven.
   (B)   The total number of Class B licenses to be issued under this
subchapter shall not exceed one.
   (C)   The total number of Class C licenses to be issued under this
subchapter shall not exceed eight.
   (D)   The total number of Class D licenses to be issued under this
subchapter shall not exceed six.
   (E)   The total number of Class E licenses to be issued under this
subchapter shall not exceed two.
   (F)   Provided further, that notwithstanding said limitation, the widow or
any descendant of legal age of any licensee who held either a Class A, a Class
C, or a Class D license and who dies subsequent to the issuance of such
license, may apply for and secure a license, if otherwise eligible under the
provisions of this subchapter, within 60 days of the death of said original
licensee.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016; Ord. 16-1140, passed1-14-2016; Ord. 18-1206,
passed 9-13-2018)
§ 112.23  INITIAL LICENSE EXPENSE.
   In connection with the first application of any person, or groups of
persons, or corporations, applying for a license under this subchapter, said
person shall pay at the time of such application a non-refundable initial
license expense of $500, in addition to the license fee required in this
subchapter. The initial license expense shall be for the purpose of defraying
any and all costs which the village may incur as a result of the consideration
and investigation of said application. The initial license expense shall be
retained by the village regardless of whether or not the applicant is granted a
license.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.24  INVESTIGATION, REJECTION OR APPROVAL OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All applications for license under this chapter shall be delivered by the
Village Clerk to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. It shall be the duty of
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to investigate and consider the
application. For this purpose the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may enlist
the aid of the Chief of Police and any other Village Official or employee that
he or she deems necessary to complete the investigation. Upon completion of the
investigation, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall approve or
disapprove the issuance of a license based on said application, provided that
there exists an available license.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.25  RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Application for renewal of license shall be filed with the Village Clerk on
or before April 30th preceding the expiration thereof. Such application for
renewal shall be made under oath and shall be upon an application form prepared
by the village. Each application for renewal shall be treated and considered in
the same manner as hereinabove provided for original applications for license.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.26  POSTING LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license or licenses to be framed and
hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.27  PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village for at least six months
prior to the date of application therefor.
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides.
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (D)   A person who is convicted of a felony or misdemeanor under federal or
state law, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines, after
investigation, that such person has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to
warrant the public trust and have issued to him or her a license.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (G)   A person who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor under any
federal or state law dealing with or regulating alcoholic liquor, or drugs, or
cannabis sativa.
   (H)   A person whose license issued under this subchapter has been suspended
or revoked for cause.
   (I)   A person who has had a license issued by any other unit of government
which has been suspended or revoked for cause.
   (J)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   (K)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license.
   (L)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate of more than 5% of the
stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder
for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the village.
   (M)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act to transact business in Illinois.
   (N)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
license.
   (O)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
   (P)   Any law enforcing public official of the village, including the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, the Mayor, Village Trustees, and no such official
shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license
may be granted to such official in relation to premises which are not located
within the village if the issuance of such license is approved by the state
Liquor Control Commission.
   (Q)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   (R)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense under the laws
of the state of Illinois as heretofore or hereafter amended.
   (S)   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for a prior or current tax
period.
   (T)   A co-partnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for a prior or current
tax period; or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or federal wagering stamp by the federal government for a prior or
current tax period.
   (U)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder, owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such
corporation shall have been issued a federal gaming device stamp, or a federal
wagering stamp, for a prior or current tax period.
   (V)   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp, or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the period within
which the license is to be effective.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016; Ord. 16-1140, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 112.28  AVAILABILITY OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every holder of a local liquor license to make books
and records available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation
and control by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. Such books and records
need not be maintained on the licensed premises, but must be maintained in the
State of Illinois.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.29  SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED; PROOF OF IDENTITY AND AGE.
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known by him or her to be under legal disability or in need of mental
treatment. No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of 21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
Whoever violates the provisions of this paragraph of this subsection A is
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (1)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of 21 years.
      (2)   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a federal, state, county, or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act, or an identification card issued to a member of the
Armed Forces. Proof that the defendant-licensee, or his or her employee or
agent, demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in
any transaction, forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
      (3)   Any person who sells, gives, or furnishes to any person under the
age of 21 years any false or fraudulent written, printed, or photostatic
evidence of the age and identity of such person or who sells, gives or
furnishes to any person under the age of 21 years evidence of age and
identification of any other person is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (4)   Any person under the age of 21 years who presents or offers to any
licensee, his or her agent or employee, any written, printed or photostatic
evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or
her own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure, the serving of any alcoholic
beverage, or who has in his or her possession any false or fraudulent written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.
      (5)   Any person under the age of 21 years who has any alcoholic beverage
in his or her possession on any street or highway or in any public places or in
any place open to the public is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. This section
does not apply to possession by a person under the age of 21 years making a
delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order of his or her
parent or in pursuance of his or her employment.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, whoever violates this
section shall, in addition to other penalties provided for in this subchapter,
be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.30  GATHERING WHERE ONE OR MORE PERSONS ARE UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a petty offense where he or she
knowingly permits a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of two or
more persons where anyone or more of the persons is under 18 years of age and
the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 18 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 18
is not otherwise permitted by this subchapter; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 18 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section where the residence has an owner and a
tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.31  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LOCAL LICENSE.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any
license issued by him or her if he or she determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended,
(ILCS Ch. 43, et seq.), or of this subchapter, or any applicable rule or
regulation established by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or the State
Commissioner which is not inconsistent with law. In lieu of suspension or
revocation, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may instead levy a fine on
the licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for
each violation; each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than $10,000 in fines under this section may be
imposed against any licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds
from such fines shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the Village of
Calumet Park.
   (B)   However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with a three day written notice to the licensee affording
the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be
open to the public and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall reduce all
evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings.
If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the welfare of the community he or she may, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing,
order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the
licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such
licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses
on the licensed premises such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall within five days after
such hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the
reason or reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the
amount of the fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been
revoked, and shall serve a copy of such order within the five days upon the
licensee.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.32  COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner stating that any retailer licensee,
subject to the jurisdiction of the Local Commissioner, has been or is violating
the provisions of the Liquor Control Act or this subchapter or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant hereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Local Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by
the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Local Commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged
there is reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.33  TRANSFER OF LOCATION.
   Licenses issued hereunder apply only to the premises described in the
application and in the license issued thereon, and only one location shall be
so described in each license. After a license has been granted for particular
premises, the Local Commissioner, upon proper showing, may endorse upon said
license permission to abandon the premises therein described and remove
therefrom to other premises approved by him or her, but in order to obtain such
approval the licensee shall file with the Local Commissioner a request in
writing and a statement under oath which shall show that the premises to which
removal is to be made comply in all respects with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.34  SALES NEAR CHURCHES, SCHOOLS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school other than an institution of
higher learning, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans,
their spouses or children or any military or naval station, provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of
alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on; nor to the renewal
of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100
feet of any church or school where such church or school has been established
within such 100 feet since the issuance of the original license. In the case of
a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any
building used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.35  WINDOWS OF LICENSED PREMISES TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   On premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption thereon is
licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the door of such licensed premises, not inside
such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no
booths, screen, partition or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights
or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such licensed
premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises from the street, road or sidewalk, and said premises must be so
located that there shall be a full view of the entire interior of such premises
from the street, road, or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for
consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted during business
hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of the
interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the view of any such
licensed premises required by the foregoing provisions shall be willfully
obscured by the licensee or by him or her willfully buffered to be obscured or
in any manner obstructed, then such license shall be subject to revocation.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.36  CONFORMITY TO BUILDING CODE.
   All premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor shall be
maintained in a clean and sightly manner and shall be equipped and maintained
with running hot and cold water and adequate sanitary washing facilities for
the cleaning of glasses and service items and shall be supplied adequately with
toilet facilities for both males and females. Such premises shall otherwise
conform to all applicable Building and Zoning Codes of the village.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.37  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   On-premises consumption.
      (1)   Any holder of a license hereunder is permitted to sell, offer for
sale, permit to be sold, or give away any alcoholic liquor on the premises
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. the following morning, on Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday; between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
the following morning, on Friday and Saturday; and between 12 Noon on Sunday to
3:00 a.m. Monday morning.
      (2)   During prohibited hours, the licensed premises shall be kept closed
and no person other than the licensee or any employee or a member of the
immediate family of the licensee shall be permitted to remain therein and all
doors directly opening into and out of the location, place or premises, shall
be securely locked.
   (B)   Off-premises consumption. It shall be unlawful for any holder of a
license hereunder to sell, offer for sale, permit to be sold, or to give away,
any alcoholic liquor for consumption off of the specified premises, such as a
liquor store, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following
morning on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday and between
10:00 p.m. on Saturday and 12 Noon on Sunday.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this §
112.37, the holder of a license hereunder may also sell, offer for sale, permit
to be sold, or give away any alcoholic liquor for consumption off of the
specified premises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and Midnight on any day of
the week if:
      (1)   Such license holder provides at least one security guard on such
specified premises at all times during such extended hours of operation;
      (2)   Such security guard has received training at least equal to the
training required by the State of Illinois;
      (3)   Such security guard is not an existing Village Police Officer or
member of the Village Police Department if the premises are used primarily or
exclusively for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   The village's Liquor Commissioner has approved such extension of
the hours of the license holder's operation in writing after the license holder
has provided the village's Liquor Commissioner with documentation evidencing
the use and deployment of such security and the training for such security in
accordance with these provision.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the Mayor, upon property application
therefor, from extending the hours of operation or any licensee for a temporary
period.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.38  LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person licensed under this subchapter shall provide for any bands,
orchestras, disk jockeys, or other similar live entertainment on the licensed
premises nor shall such person permit any employee, entertainer, or patron to
engage in any live act, demonstration, dance, exhibition, or announcements on
the licensed premises. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to prohibit patrons
from dancing to music from a jukebox or other means of artificial sound
reproduction.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the Mayor, upon proper application
therefor, and payment of the required fee, unless waived, from granting a
temporary permit for live entertainment on the licensed premises. Such
temporary permits shall be valid only for the period of time set forth therein.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.39  SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his or her manager, or any other
person in charge of licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is offered for
sale for consumption on the premises to engage, employ, or permit any female to
solicit for reward or compensation any patron or customer thereof to purchase
alcoholic or non-alcoholic liquor for her, himself or any person therein,
however, that nothing herein contained shall prohibit any adult manageress or
waitress or female bartender who shall be regularly employed herein from
accepting and serving the order of a patron or customer in the regular course
of his or her employment as such manageress or waitress or female bartender.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.40  TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the power to issue temporary permits, not
licenses, to any society, fraternity, picnic, bazaar, fair or similar public or
private assembly, for the sale of alcoholic beverages where food is sold,
served or dispensed. Such temporary permits shall be issued only to
organizations not for pecuniary profit and shall be valid only for one day,
provided that the Mayor may issue such temporary permits for a period of not
more than ten days.
   (B)   The fee for such temporary permit shall be $50 per day. The Mayor,
however, may waive any fee prescribed hereunder.
(Ord. 15-1125, passed 6-25-2016)
§ 112.41  RECORD REVIEW.
   All review or appeal of the actions or orders of the local liquor control
commissioner of the Village of Calumet Park, Illinois, shall be made by the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission on the official record made before the local
liquor control commissioner.
(Ord. 18-1213, passed 10-25-2018)
DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS
§ 112.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTE.  To give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue or offer to give,
sell, deliver, dispense or issue, or cause or hire any person to give, sell,
deliver, dispense, issue or offer to give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
   LICENSEE.  Any person obtaining a tobacco product retailer's license under
this subchapter.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, trustee, or any other group or combination acting
as a unit, excepting the United States of America, the State of Illinois, and
any political subdivision thereof.
   PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION.  Any officially issued card containing the
bearer's date of birth that includes a photograph of the person seeking to
purchase tobacco products and that is accepted as proof of age under Illinois
law.
   POINT OF SALE.  A store, building, boat, vending machine or any other
separate place of business maintained by a seller from which tobacco  products
are made available for sale or distribution to consumers. POINT OF SALE does
not include separate cash registers or service counters within a store or other
place of business.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any area to which the public is invited or permitted.
   RETAILER.  Any person who sells tobacco products to individuals for personal
consumption, or who operates a facility containing vending machines that
dispense tobacco products or self-service displays of tobacco products in
unincorporated Cook County.
   TAVERN.  An enclosed place of business kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public as a place that primarily serves alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises and in which providing entertainment or serving
of food in only incidental or secondary to the sale of alcoholic beverages for
immediate consumption. Examples of places of business not deemed to be taverns
within the definitions of this paragraph include, but are not limited to,
restaurants, catering halls, bowling alleys, billiard parlors, discotheques,
theaters and arenas.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS.  Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but not
limited to cigarettes, cigars, snuff, smoking tobacco, and/or smokeless
tobacco.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS SAMPLE.  A tobacco product distributed to members of the
general public at no cost or at nominal cost for purposes of promoting the
product.
   VENDING MACHINE.  Any mechanical, electronic or self-service device which
upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, automatically
dispenses tobacco products.
(Ord. 04-843, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 112.51  PROHIBITION ON SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Underage tobacco sales. No retailer may sell or distribute tobacco
products to any person under 18 years of age.
   (B)   Identification verification.
      (1)   Each retailer shall request and examine the photographic
identification of any person purchasing tobacco products so as to verify that
the purchaser is over 18 years of age.
      (2)   No such verification is required for any person who appears without
reasonable doubt to be over the age of 27.
   (C)   Distribution of tobacco product samples prohibited. No person shall
give away, barter, exchange, distribute or in any way dispense free of charge
or at nominal cost any tobacco product samples, and/or any coupon redeemable
for any tobacco products, on any public street, alley, sidewalk or in any
public park, ground or playground, or in areas open to the public in any
publicly owned or operated building or at any place located within 500 feet of
any building or other location used primarily as a school, child care facility,
or for the education or recreation of children under 18 years of age.
   (D)   Prohibited locations.
      (1)   No retailer shall sell or distribute tobacco products at any place
located within 500 feet of any building or other location used primarily as a
school, child care facility or for the education or recreation of children
under 18 years of age.
      (2)   This prohibition shall not apply to those businesses engaged in the
retail sale of tobacco products at a location that would otherwise be
prohibited by this subchapter that were in existence prior to passage of this
subchapter.
      (3)   This exemption shall apply to any owner at the same location
providing the same service.
   (E)   Restrictions on tobacco product vending machines.
      (1)   No retailer shall sell or distribute tobacco products through a
vending machine unless the vending machine is located:
         (a)   In an area of factories, businesses, offices, private clubs and
other places not open to the public; or
         (b)   In taverns.
      (2)   Tobacco products may be sold or distributed by a tobacco product
vending machine in a tavern only in the following ways:
         (a)   The tobacco product vending machine must be placed at a distance
of a minimum of 25 feet from any entrance to the premises; and
         (b)   The tobacco product vending machine must be directly visible by
the owner or the lessee of the premises, or his or her employees or agent
during the operation of the vending machine.
   (F)   Posting of warning to minors.
      (1)   Every retailer of tobacco products shall place and maintain, in
legible condition, at each point of sale of tobacco products to consumers,
including the front of each vending machine, a sign stating:
         WARNING
         IT IS A VIOLATION OF THE LAW FOR CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS
TO BE SOLD TO ANY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 18
      (2)   The sign shall not be less than eight inches by 11 inches in size,
except for a sign placed on the front of a vending machine, the sign for a
vending machine shall not be less than four inches by four inches in size.
      (3)   The text of the printed card shall be in red letters on a white
background, the letters to be at least one inch high.
   (G)   Self-service sales prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away or display
tobacco products for sale at any location where the consumer can acquire
products through self-service.
      (2)   All tobacco products will be displayed from behind a sales/service
counter so that no consumer can access tobacco products without assistance by
an employee of the licensee.
      (3)   This restriction shall not apply to customer self-service as
described in division (E) above.
   (H)   Minimum age to sell tobacco products. It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
of the licensee to engage, employ or permit any person under 18 years of age to
sell tobacco products in any licensed premises.
(Ord. 04-843, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 112.52  LICENSING OF TOBACCO PRODUCT RETAILERS.
   (A)   License requirement.
      (1)   No person shall engage in the retail sale of tobacco products or
operate a facility containing vending machines that dispense tobacco products
unless the person is authorized to do so by a license issued pursuant to this
subchapter, or is an employee or agent of a person who has been issued a
license pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   A separate license must be obtained for each point of sale
maintained by the retailer. The license to sell tobacco products shall be
displayed prominently at the point of sale for which it is issued.
   (B)   License administration. The Village of Calumet Park shall administer
the licensing of retailers of tobacco products and shall approve or deny all
applications for licenses and revoke existing licenses pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (C)   License; application. An application for a tobacco retailer's license
shall be filed in writing with the Village of Calumet Park on a form provided
by the village. Each application for a license shall contain the following:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, the address and telephone number where
the applicant is engaged in the business of the retail sale of tobacco products
and the name, address and telephone number of the person authorized to receive
notices issued pursuant to this subchapter;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporate name, the address
and telephone number of the principal place of business; the date and state of
incorporation; the names of the corporate officers and the name, address and
telephone number of the person authorized to receive notices issued pursuant to
this subchapter;
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name, address and telephone
number of the principal place of business, the names of all partners; the name,
address and telephone number of a person authorized to receive notices issued
pursuant to the subchapter; and
      (4)   Any retailer whose license is revoked for violating this subchapter
shall be prohibited from obtaining a tobacco retailer's license for one year.
   (D)   License; term.
      (1)   Every retailer's license shall be issued for an annual period
beginning January 1 and ending December 31.
      (2)   Each license shall expire on the last day of the license for which
the license was issued.
   (E)   License fee.
      (1)   The annual license fee for a retailer shall be $125 per license.
      (2)   If a licensee operates more than one vending machine at the same
premises, the licensee shall pay the annual license fee if $125 for the first
vending machine license and $25 for each additional vending machine license.
   (F)   License; transfer prohibited. The transfer of any license issued
hereunder is prohibited. Any such purported transfer is void.
(Ord. 04-843, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 112.53  ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Village of Calumet Park shall be responsible for the enforcement
and administration of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Village of Calumet Park conduct random, unannounced inspections at
locations where tobacco products are sold, including tobacco vending machines,
to ensure compliance with the ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   The Village of Calumet Park shall promulgate reasonable rules
and regulations consistent with this subchapter to provide for the enforcement
and administration of this subchapter.
      (2)   The rules and regulations shall establish procedures for
administrative action against those who violates the ordinance and for a method
of administrative adjudication of the violation or violations.
(Ord. 04-843, passed 2-12-2004)
REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
§ 112.65  LEGISLATIVE FINDING AND DECLARATION.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees expressly find and declare that:
   (A)   (1)   Cigarette smoking is dangerous to human health;
      (2)   There exists substantial scientific evidence that the use of
tobacco products causes cancer, heart disease and various other medical
disorders;
      (3)   The Surgeon General of the United States has declared that nicotine
addiction from tobacco is similar to addiction to cocaine, and is the most
widespread example of drug dependence in this country;
      (4)   The Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse concluded that
the majority of the 320,000 Americans who die each year from cigarette smoking
became addicted to nicotine as adolescents before the age of legal consent;
      (5)   The National Institute on Drug Abuse found that cigarette smoking
precedes and may be predictive of adolescent illicit drug use; and
      (6)   The present legislative scheme of prohibiting sales of tobacco
products to persons under the age of 18 has proven ineffective in preventing
such persons from using tobacco products.
   (B)   That the enactment of this subchapter directly pertains to and is in
furtherance of the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the village,
particularly those residents under 18 years of age.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.66  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS.  Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE.  Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service
device which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment,
dispenses tobacco products.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.67  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give
away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away
or delivering tobacco products within the village without having first obtained
a tobacco dealer's license therefor pursuant to the Business License Ordinance
of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (B)   The license shall be in addition to any other license required by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.68  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of the Village
of Calumet Park Business License Ordinance.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.69  LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be as set forth in the
Village of Calumet Park Business License Ordinance.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.70  PROHIBITED SALES; DELIVERY; SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person under the
age of 18 years.
   (B)   (1)   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for
herein shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco
products and on or upon every vending machine which offers tobacco products for
sale.
      (2)   Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
            THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE
IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   (C)   The text of the signs shall be in red letters on a white background,
the letters to be at least one inch high.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.71  MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of the licensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under 18 years of age to sell tobacco products in any licensed
premises.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.72  PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to purchase
tobacco products, or to misrepresent their identity or age, or to use any false
or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.73  POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to possess any
tobacco products; provided that the possession by a person under the age of 18
years under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of the person in
the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.74  PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco products within 100 feet of any school, child care facility or
other building used for education or recreational programs for persons under
the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.75  CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of
selling or otherwise distributing, promotion or advertising tobacco products,
or any employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the course of the
licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver tobacco
products free of charge to any person on any right-of-way, park, playground or
other property owned by the village, any school district, any park district or
any public library.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.76  VENDING MACHINES; LOCKING DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give
away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or
delivering tobacco products by use of a vending machine, unless the vending
machine is equipped with a manual, electric or electronic locking device
controlled by the licensee so as to prevent its operation by persons under the
age of 18 years.
   (B)   Any premises where access by persons under the age of 18 years is
prohibited by law, or premises where the public is generally not permitted and
where vending machines are strictly for the use of employees of business
located at such premises, shall be exempt from the requirements of division (A)
above.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.77  RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
licensee; and the licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act
or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.78  SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; FINES; COSTS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be charged with the administration of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under the
provisions of this subchapter, if he or she determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   However, no such license shall be suspended or revoked and no licensee
shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Mayor or his or her
designee with a written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend against the charges contained in the notice.
The notice shall provide for a hearing at least seven days following delivery
by certified mail or by personal service.
   (D)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall within seven days after such
hearing, if he or she determines after the hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason
for the determination in a written order and either the amount of the fine, the
period of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a copy of
the order within the seven days upon the licensee.
   (E)   Any licensee determined by the Mayor to have violated any of the
provisions of this subchapter shall pay to the village the costs of the hearing
before the Mayor on such violation.
   (F)   The Mayor shall determine the costs incurred by the village for the
hearing, including, but not limited to: court reporter's fees, the costs of
transcripts or records, attorneys' fees, the cost of preparing and mailing
notices and orders and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village
or such lesser sum as the Mayor may allow.
   (G)   The licensee shall pay the costs to the village within 30 days of
notification of the costs by the Mayor.
   (H)   Failure to pay the costs within 30 days of notification is a violation
of this subchapter and may be cause for license suspension or revocation, or
the levy of a fine.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.79  USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to the licensee for the period of six months thereafter for the conduct
of the business of selling tobacco products as defined in §
112.66 above in the premises described in the revoked license.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)    Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
112.15 through
112.40  shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense. Each day a violation of this §§
112.15 through
112.40 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall
be in addition to the penalties prescribed in §§
112.29,
112.30 and
112.31 of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The Village of Calumet Park shall impose a fine upon any person
who violates the provisions of §
112.51 above. Each instance in which §
112.51 is violated shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. Penalties
imposed shall include the following:
         (a)   For a first violation, an administrative penalty of $250;
         (b)   For second violation, occurring after a final determination of
liability for a first violation, and within a 12-month period, an
administrative penalty of $500 and a suspension of the license of the retail
tobacco dealer for 30 days; and
         (c)   For a third violation, occurring after a final determination of
liability for a second violation and within a 12-month period, an
administrative penalty of $1,000 and a revocation of the license of the retail
tobacco dealer for one year.
      (2)   The Village of Calumet Park shall impose a fine pursuant to §
10.99 upon any person who sells tobacco products without a license as required
by Section 5(A) of this subchapter or after a license issued pursuant to this
subchapter has been suspended.
      (3)   Each instance in which a person sells tobacco products in violation
of Section 5(A) shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
   (D)   In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license (see §
112.78 above), the Mayor may instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine
imposed shall be pursuant to §
10.99. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 96-671, passed 3-14-1996;Ord. 04-843, passed 2-12-2004; Ord. 15-1125,
passed 6-25- 2016; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 113:  HOTELS AND MOTELS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Prohibition
   
113.03   Duty of owner to place signs
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTEL ROOM or HOTEL ROOM.  A room within a structure offered for rental on a
daily basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental
with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single motel or
hotel room. The number of motel or hotel rooms within a suite shall be computed
on the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
   OWNER.  Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of a motel or hotel room or receiving the consideration of the rental
of the motel or hotel room.
   PERSON.  Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation,
district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other
representative, acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in
any capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in any
circumstances.
(Ord. 03-835, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 113.02  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or employee of any hotel/motel to
permit any person who is under the age of 21 to rent a hotel/motel room.
(Ord. 03-835, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 113.03  DUTY OF OWNER TO PLACE SIGNS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of a hotel/motel to provide and place
printed signs in which the words
      YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER TO RENT A ROOM
shall appear in a conspicuous place near the entrance of the hotel/motel.
(Ord. 03-835, passed 11-25-2003)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any owner violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to
§
10.99 for each and every offense.
(Ord. 03-835, passed 11-25-2003; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 114:  GAMES, AMUSEMENTS AND OTHER BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Coin-operated amusement parlors
   
114.02   Billiard and pool halls
   
114.03   Prohibiting certain kinds of businesses
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT PARLORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation,
association or club to permit any non-coin operated amusement device to be used
in any establishment within the Village of Calumet Park before 10:00 a.m.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term NON-COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT
DEVICE shall mean and include any mechanical or electronic amusement machine or
device, the operation of which is not governed by the deposit or payment of a
coin or token, including without being limited thereto, any machine or device
capable of producing or reproducing any vocal or instrumental sounds for the
purpose of amusement or skill.
   (C)   Non-coin operated devices shall not be operated or permitted to be
used in any manner so as to violate the laws of the Village of Calumet Park or
the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 04-838, passed 1-8-2004)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02  BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate, maintain or
conduct a billiard, pool or bagatelle or pigeonhole table open to the public
without first having obtained a license therefor as is herein required.
      (2)   All applications for those licenses shall state thereon the
intended location of the place of business and the number of tables to be used
therein.
   (B)   The annual fee for the license shall be $30 for the first table; and
an additional fee of $25 for each additional table.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to enter,
remain on, frequent, loiter or be present in any hall licensed hereunder at any
time unless accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a license hereunder to
remain open between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. every day including
Sundays.
      (2)   The front doors of the premises shall be closed and all persons
removed therefrom during the hours aforesaid.
(Ord. 71-126, passed 1-28-1971)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03  PROHIBITING CERTAIN KINDS OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   No individual, corporation or any other entity may operate a tattoo
parlor or engage in any form of tattooing as part of a commercial enterprise
within the Village of Calumet Park or within the distance of one mile beyond
the municipal limits of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the preceding, any physician, osteopath or dentist may
engage in tattoo operations for any legitimate medical purpose.
(Ord. 97-697, passed 9-11-1997)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or club which
violates any of the provisions of §
114.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
10.99, and each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a new and separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
114.02 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurred or continues.
   (D)   Any person, corporation or other entity violating any of the
provisions of §
114.03 will be subject to a fine pursuant to §
10.99 for each violation. Each day that the violation continues shall be deemed
to be a separate violation.
(Ord. 71-126, passed 1-28-1971;Ord. 97-697, passed 9-11-1997; Ord. 04-838,
passed 1-8-2004; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 115:  ITINERANT VENDORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Violation
   
115.03   Seizure of goods
   
115.04   Prima facie evidence
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT VENDOR.  Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the Village of Calumet Park who does not maintain in the
village an established office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse,
service center or residence from which the business is conducted. However, this
chapter does not apply to any person who delivers tangible personal property
within the Village of Calumet Park who is fulfilling an order for the property
which was solicited or placed by mail or other means. This chapter does not
apply to any person holding a valid license issued by the Village of Calumet
Park to engage in retail sales.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, firm, association
or other entity.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.  Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail
sale of goods, wares or merchandise in the Village of Calumet Park and who, for
the purpose of conducting the business, occupies any building, room, vehicle,
structure of any kind, or vacant lot. However, this chapter does not apply to
any person selling goods or merchandise which are raised, produced or
manufactured by him or her, to any store, market or other business licensed to
sell such products within the Village of Calumet Park. This chapter does not
apply to any person or corporation holding a valid business license issued by
the Village of Calumet Park to engage in retail sales.
(Ord. 98-708, passed 5-14-1998)
§ 115.02  VIOLATION.
   It is a violation of this chapter for any person, either as principal or
agent, to conduct business as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor within
the corporate limits of the Village of Calumet Park, unless the operation of
the business is pursuant to a license issued in accordance with the Business
License Ordinance, as amended, (Ord. 80-324) of the Village of Calumet Park for
the operation of a business expressly permitted in the ordinance.
(Ord. 98-708, passed 5-14-1998)
§ 115.03  SEIZURE OF GOODS.
   If any person makes retail sales as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor
in violation of this chapter, the Calumet Park Police Department may seize the
inventory, truck or other personal property of the person pending the
disposition of any tickets issued, complaints filed, or any other court action
pursuant to this chapter and the village, in addition to any other penalty
provided for in this ordinance, may petition the Circuit Court of Cook County
for an order for the sale of the property being held. Proceeds of the sale of
the property may be used to reimburse the village for the reasonable expenses
of enforcing this chapter, storing the property and selling the property. Any
excess may be deposited in the Treasury of the Village of Calumet Park pursuant
to court order.
(Ord. 98-708, passed 5-14-1998)
§ 115.04  PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is a transient merchant or
itinerant vendor under this chapter if the person does not transact business
from a fixed location or if the person does not own or lease for a term of at
least six months the property from which the business is conducted.
(Ord. 98-708, passed 5-14-1998)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who is found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter
is subject to a fine pursuant to § 10.99 for each such violation. Each day the
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 98-708, passed 5-14-1998; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 116:  FOOD SERVICE; SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Adoption by reference
   
116.03   Permits; license
   
116.04   Inspection of food service establishments and retail food stores
   
116.05   Inspection records
   
116.06   Issuance of notices
   
116.07   Services of notices
   
116.08   Examination and condemnation of food
   
116.09   Food service establishments outside jurisdiction of the authority
   
116.10   Plan review of future construction
   
116.11   Procedure when infection is suspected
   
116.12   Conflict of ordinance; effect on partial invalidity
Codes Adopted
   
116.25   Food Store Sanitation Code
   
116.26   Food Service Sanitation Code
 
   
116.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE.  Acceptable or sufficient as determined by Health Authority.
   ADULTERATED.  The condition of a food:
      (1)   If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance in a
quantity which may render it injurious to health;
      (2)   If it bears or contains any added poisonous or deleterious
substance for which no safe tolerance has been established by regulation, or in
excess of such tolerance if one has been established;
      (3)   If it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid or
decomposed substance, or if it is otherwise unfit for human consumption;
      (4)   If it has been processed, prepared, packed or held under unsanitary
conditions, whereby, it may have become contaminated with filth or, whereby, it
may have been rendered injurious to health;
      (5)   If it is in whole or in part the product of a diseased animal, or
an animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter; or
      (6)   If the containers are composed in whole or in part of any poisonous
or deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health.
   APPROVED.  Acceptable to the Health Officer based on his or her
determination as to conformance with appropriate standards and good public
health practice.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.  The legally designated Health Authority of the
Village of Calumet Park and shall include those persons designated by the
Health Authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   CLOSED.  Fitted together snugly leaving no openings large enough to permit
the entrance of vermin.
   CORROSION-RESISTENCE MATERIAL.  A material which maintains its original
surface characteristics under prolonged influence of the food, cleaning
compounds and sanitizing solutions which may contact it.
   EASILY CLEANABLE.  Readily accessible and of such material and finish, and
so fabricated that residue may be completely removed by normal cleaning
methods.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person working in a food service establishment or retail food
store who transports food or food containers, who engages in food preparation,
packaging or service, or who comes in contact with any food utensils or
equipment.
   EQUIPMENT.  All stoves, ranges, hoods, meat blocks, tables, counters,
refrigerators, sinks, dishwashing machines, steam tables and similar items,
other than utensils, used in the operation of a food service establishment or
retail food store.
   FOOD.  Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, beverage or ingredient
used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption.
   FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES.  Those surfaces of equipment and utensils with which
food normally comes in contact, and those surfaces with which food may come in
contact and drain back onto surfaces normally in contact with food.
   FOOD-PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT.  A commercial establishment in which food is
processed or otherwise prepared and packaged for human consumption.
   FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any fixed or mobile restaurant; coffee shop,
cafeteria; short-order café; luncheonette; grill; tearoom/sandwich shop; soda
fountain; tavern; bar; cocktail lounge; night club; roadside stand; industrial-
feeding establishment; private, public, or non-profit organization or
institution routinely serving food; catering kitchen; commissary or similar
place in which food or drink is prepared for sale or for service on the
premises or elsewhere; and any other eating or drinking establishment or
operation where food is served or provided for the public with or without
charge.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY.  That person or persons who have been designated by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees to administer the affairs of the Village of Calumet
Park Health Department.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY.  The Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park, Illinois,
who compose the Health Committee, and the Mayor.
   KITCHENWARE.  All multiuse utensils other than tableware used in the
storage, preparation, conveying or serving of food.
   LAW.  Includes state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations.
   LICENSE HOLDER.  An individual, a firm, partnership, company, corporation,
trustee, association or public or private entity who is directly or indirectly
responsible for the operation of a food-service establishment or retail food
store.
   MISBRANDED.  The presence of any written, printed or graphic matter, upon or
accompanying food or containers of food, which is false or misleading, or which
violates any applicable state or local labeling requirements.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any food-service establishment capable
of being moved from location to locations, or without a fixed location.
   PACKAGED.  Bottled, canned, cartoned or securely wrapped.
   PERISHABLE FOOD.  Any food of such type or in such condition as may spoil.
   PERMANENT FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT or RETAIL FOOD STORE.  Any food-service
establishment or retail food store which operates at a fixed location for a
period of time exceeding 14 days.
   PERSON.  An individual, or a firm, partnership, company, corporation,
trustee, association or any public or private entity.
   PERSON IN CHARGE.  The individual present in a food service establishment
who is the supervisor of the food service establishment at the time.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD.  Any perishable food which consists in whole, or
in part of milk or milk products, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, shellfish or other
ingredients capable of supporting rapid and progressive growth of infectious or
toxigenic micro-organisms.
   RETAIL FOOD STORE.  Retail grocery, meat market, poultry market, fish
market, fresh fruit and vegetable market, confectionary, nut store, retail
bakery, or any other establishment, whether fixed or movable, where food,
intended for human consumption, off the premises, is prepared, handled,
transported, sold or offered for sale at retail.
   SAFE TEMPERATURES.  As applied to potentially hazardous food, temperatures
of 45°F or below, and 140°F or above. As applied to frozen perishable foods
safe temperatures shall be -0°F. or below, except for a variation of 15°F.
during transit, unloading or defrosting during a mechanical defrosting cycle.
Temperatures shall be determined by measurement of the actual product
temperature or the ambient air temperature in the storage device.
   SANITIZING.  Effective bactericidal treatment by a process that destroys
micro-organisms, including pathogens. Effective bactericidal treatment is
demonstrated by an average plate count per tableware utensil surface examined
of not more than 100 colonies, or not more than 12-1/2 colonies per square inch
of equipment and utensil surfaces examined other than tableware in accordance
with procedures detailed in Public Health Service Publication No. 1631
(Procedure for the Bacteriological Examination of Food Utensils and or Food
Equipment Surfaces).
   SEALED.  Free of cracks or other opening which permit entry or passage of
moisture.
   SINGLE SERVICE ARTICLES.  Cups, containers, lids or closures; plates,
knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, paddles, straws, place mats, napkins, doilies,
scrapping material: and all similar articles which are constructed wholly in
part from paper, paperboard, molded pulp, foil, wood, plastic, synthetic or
other readily destructible materials, the public as for one usage only, then to
be discarded.
   TABLEWARE.  All multiuse eating and drinking, utensils, including flatware
(knives, forks and spoons).
   TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any food-service establishment which
operates at a fixed location for a temporary period of time not to exceed two
weeks, in connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition or
similar transitory gathering.
   TEMPORARY RETAIL FOOD STORES.  Any retail food store which operates at a
fixed location for a temporary period of time not to exceed two weeks.
   UTENSILS.  Any tableware and kitchenware used in the storage, preparation,
conveying or serving of food.
   WHOLESOME.  In sound condition, clean, free from adulteration, and otherwise
suitable for use as human food.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.02  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In addition to those provisions set forth in the Village of Calumet Park
code of ordinances for food sanitation, this section hereby adopts, by
reference, the provisions set forth in the State of Illinois, Department of
Public Health, Rules and Regulations for Food Service Sanitation, and the
provisions set forth in the State of Illinois, Department of Public Health,
Rules and Regulations for Retail Food Store Sanitation, and any subsequent
amendments or revisions thereto, three certified copies of each shall be on
file in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.03  PERMITS; LICENSE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food service
establishment or retail food store with the Village of Calumet Park, State of
Illinois, who does not possess a valid permit issued to him or her by the
Village Clerk.
      (2)   Only a person who complies with the requirements of this chapter
shall be entitled to receive and retail such a permit.
      (3)   Permits shall not be transferrable from one person to another
person or place.
      (4)   A valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in every
food-service and retail food establishment.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   Permits for permanent food-service establishments and retail food
stores shall expire on April 30 next following the date of issuance.
      (2)   Permits for temporary food-service establishments and temporary
retail food stores shall be issued for a period of time not to exceed 14 days.
   (C)   Issuance of license.
      (1)   Any person desiring to operate a food service establishment or
retail food store or to renew an expired license shall make written application
for a permit on forms provided by the Health Authority.
      (2)   The application shall include: the applicant's full name and post
office address and whether the applicant is an individual, firm or corporation,
and a partnership, the names of partners, together with their addresses shall
be included; the location and type of the proposed food-service establishment
or retail food store; and the signature of the applicant or applicants.
      (3)   If the application is for a temporary food-service establishment or
temporary retail food store it shall also include the inclusive dates of the
proposed operation.
      (4)   Upon receipt of such an application, the Health Officer shall make
an inspection of the establishment to determine compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter.
      (5)   When inspection reveals that the applicable requirements of this
subchapter have been met, a license shall be issued to the applicant by the
Health Authority.
   (D)   Renewal of licenses.
      (1)   Whenever the inspection for renewal of a permit reveals serious or
repeated violations of this subchapter, the license will not be issued and the
Health Authority shall notify the applicant immediately thereof.
      (2)   The notice shall state the reasons for not renewing the permit. The
notice shall also state that an opportunity for a hearing shall be provided for
the applicant at a time and place designated by the Health Authority. The
hearing shall be scheduled not later than ten days from the date of the notice.
      (3)   The notice referred to in this paragraph shall be delivered to the
applicant in person by the Health Authority or may be sent registered mail,
return receipt requested.
      (4)   A license which has expired shall be removed from the establishment
by the Health Authority.
   (E)   Suspension of licenses.
      (1)   Licenses may be suspended temporarily by the Health Authority for
failure of the license holder to comply with the requirements of this
subchapter. Whenever a license holder or operator has failed to comply with any
notice issued under the provisions of this subchapter, the license holder or
operator shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service of the
notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity for a hearing will be
provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the Health Authority
by the license holder.
      (2)   Upon suspension of the license, the license shall be removed from
the establishment by the Health Authority and returned to the Health
Department. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subchapter, whenever
the Health Officer finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of a
food-service establishment or retail food store which, in his or her judgement,
constitute a substantial hazard to the public health, he or she may without
warning, notice or hearing, issue a written notice to the license holder or
operator citing such condition specifying the corrective action to be taken,
and specifying the time period within which such action shall be taken and if
deemed necessary, such order shall state that the permit is immediately
suspended, and all operations as a food-service establishment or retail food
store are to be immediately discontinued.
      (3)   Any person to whom such an order is issued shall comply
immediately, herewith, but upon written petition to the Health Authority shall
be afforded a hearing within 72 hours.
   (F)   Reinstatement of suspended license.
      (1)   Any person whose license has been suspended may at any time make
application for a reinspection for the purpose of reinstatement of the license.
      (2)   Within 48 hours following receipt of a written request, including a
statement signed by the applicant that in his or her opinion the conditions
causing suspension of the permit have been corrected, the Health Officer shall
make a reinspection.
      (3)   If the applicant is complying with the requirements of this
chapter, their license shall be reinstated.
   (G)   Revocation of licenses.
      (1)   For serious or repeated violations of any of the requirements of
this subchapter, or for interference with the Health Authority in the
performance of their duties, the license may be permanently revoked by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees after an opportunity for a hearing has been
provided by the Health Authority.
      (2)   Prior to such action, the Health Authority shall notify the license
holder, in writing, stating the reasons for which the license is subject to
revocation and advising that the license shall be permanently revoked at the
end of five days following service of the notice, unless a request for a
hearing is filed with the Health Authority, by the license holder, within that
five-day period.
      (3)   If no request for a hearing is filed within the five-day period,
the revocation of the license becomes final.
   (H)   Hearings (suspension or revocation). The hearings provided for in this
section shall be conducted by the Health Authority at a time and place
designated by him or her. Based upon the record of the hearing, the Health
Authority shall make a finding and shall sustain, modify or rescind any
official notice or order considered in the hearing.
   (I)   Application after revocation. Whenever a revocation of a license has
become final, the holder of the revoked license, may make written application
for a new license.
   (J)   Fees.
      (1)   The following fee for license may be required for food service
establishments and retail food stores.
      (2)   There shall be an annual charge of $10 at the time of the license
renewal inspection for each permanent license and a charge of $5 for each
temporary license issued to cover the cost of issuing the permits.
      (3)   This fee shall be collected by the Village Clerk. There will be no
charge made for such license to any schools, religious, voluntary or non-profit
making community organizations and institutions.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.04  INSPECTION OF FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS AND RETAIL FOOD STORES.
   (A)   General. At least once every 12 months, the Health Authority shall
inspect each food-service establishment and retail food store located in the
Village of Calumet Park, State of Illinois, and shall make as many additional
inspections and reinspections as are necessary for the enforcement of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Access to establishment.
      (1)   The Health Authority, after proper identification, shall be
permitted to enter at any reasonable time any food service establishment or
retail food store within the Village of Calumet Park, State of Illinois, for
the purpose of making inspections to determine compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   He or she shall be permitted to examine the records of the
establishment to obtain pertinent information pertaining to food and supplies
purchased, received or used, and persons employed.
   (C)   Report of inspection. Whenever an inspection of a food service
establishment or retail food store is made, the finding shall be recorded on
the inspection report forms set out in §
116.05above.
   (D)   Correction of violations. The completed inspection report form shall
specify a reasonable period of time for the correction of the violations found;
and correction of the violations shall be accomplished within the period
specified, in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   If an imminent health hazard exists, such as complete lack of
refrigeration or sewage backup into the establishment, the establishment shall
immediately cease food service operations. Operations shall not be resumed
until authorized by the Health Officer;
      (2)   All violations of four- or five-point weighted items, as indicated
in the Rules and Regulations Governing Food Service Sanitation shall be
corrected as soon as possible, but in any event, within ten days following
inspection. Within 15 days after inspection, the holder of the permit, license
shall submit a written report to the regulatory authority stating that the
four- or five-point weighted violations have been corrected. A follow-up
inspection shall be conducted to confirm correction;
      (3)   All one- or two-point weighted items shall be corrected as soon as
possible, but in any event, by the time of the next routine inspection;
      (4)   When the rating score of the establishment is less than 60, the
establishment shall initiate corrective action on all identified violations
within 48 hours. One or more reinspections will be conducted at reasonable time
intervals to assure correction;
      (5)   In the case of temporary food service establishments, all
violations shall be corrected within 24 hours. If violations are not corrected
within 24 hours, the establishment shall immediately cease food service
operations until authorized to resume by the regulatory authority;
      (6)   The inspection report shall state that failure to comply with any
time limits for corrections may result in cessation of food service operations.
An opportunity for hearing on the inspection findings or the time limitations
or both will be provided if a written request is filed with the regulatory
authority within ten days following cessation of operations. If a request for
hearing is received, a hearing shall be held within 20 days of receipt of the
request; and
      (7)   Whenever a food service establishment is required under these
provisions to cease operations, it shall not resume operations until it is
shown on reinspection that conditions responsible for the order to cease
operations no longer exist. Opportunity for reinspection shall be offered
within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.05  INSPECTION RECORDS.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Officer makes an inspection he or she shall record
his or her findings on an inspection report form provided for this purpose, and
shall furnish a copy of the inspection report form to the permit holder or
operator.
   (B)   The current inspection report shall be posed in a conspicuous place in
the establishment.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.06  ISSUANCE OF NOTICES.
   Whenever the Health Officer makes an inspection of an establishment and
discovers that any of the requirements of this subchapter have been violated,
he or she shall notify the permit holder or operator of the violations by means
of an inspection report form or other written notice. In the notification the
Health Officer shall:
   (A)   Set forth the specific violations found;
   (B)   Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for the correction
of the violations found;
   (C)   State that failure to comply with any notice issued in accordance with
the provisions of this ordinance may result in immediate suspension of the
permit or other prosecution; and
   (D)   State that an opportunity for appeal from any notice or inspection
findings will be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the
Health Authority within the period of time established in the notice of
correction.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.07  SERVICES OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Notices provided for under this section shall be deemed to have been
properly served when a copy of the original of the inspection report form or
other notice has been delivered personally to the permit holder or person in
charge, or the notice has been sent by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the permit holder.
   (B)   The original of the notice shall be filed with the records of the
Health Authority.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.08  EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Officer as often as may
be necessary to determine freedom from adulteration of misbranding.
   (B)   The Health Officer may, upon written notice to the owner or person in
charge, place a hold order on any food which he or she determines, or has
probable cause to believe to be unwholesome, or otherwise adulterated or
misbranded.
   (C)   Under a hold order food shall be permitted to be suitable stored.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or alter a hold order
notice or tag placed on food by the Health Officer and neither such food nor
the containers thereof, shall be relabeled, repacked, reprocessed, altered,
disposed of or destroyed without permission of the Health Officer, except on
order by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   After the owner or person in charge has had a hearing, as provided for
in the Rules and Regulations Governing Food Service Sanitation as amended, and
on the basis of evidence produced at such hearing, or on the basis of his or
her examination in the event a written request for a hearing is not received,
within ten days, the Health Officer may vacate the hold order or may by written
order, direct the owner of person in charge of the food which was placed under
the hold order to denature or destroy the food, or bring it into compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.09  FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS OUTSIDE JURISDICTION OF THE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Food from food service establishments outside the jurisdiction of the
Health Authority of the Village of Calumet Park, State of Illinois, may be sold
within the Village of Calumet Park, State of Illinois, if the food-service
establishments conform to the provisions of this subchapter, or to
substantially equivalent provisions.
   (B)   To determine the extent of compliance with the provisions, the Health
Officer may accept reports from responsible authorities in other jurisdictions
where the food-service establishments are located.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.10  PLAN REVIEW OF FUTURE CONSTRUCTION.
   When a food-service establishment or retail food store is, hereafter,
constructed or extensively remodeled, or when an existing structure is
converted for use as food-service establishment or retail food store, properly
prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling or
alteration, showing layout, arrangement and construction materials of work
areas, and the location, size and type of fixed equipment and facilities, shall
be submitted to the Health Officer for approval before the work is begun.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.11  PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION IS SUSPECTED.
   When the Health Officer has reasonable cause to suspect possibility of
disease transmission from any food-service establishment or retail food store
employee, the Health Officer shall secure a morbidity history of the suspected
employee, or make such other investigation as may be indicated, and take
following measures:
   (A)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all food-service
establishments and retail food stores;
   (B)   The immediate closing of the establishment concerned until, in the
opinion of the Health Officer, no further danger of disease outbreak exists;
   (C)   Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the
establishment where there would be no danger of transmitting disease; and
   (D)   Adequate medical and laboratory examination of the employee, and of
his or her body discharges.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
§ 116.12  CONFLICT OF ORDINANCE; EFFECT ON PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance, or
code of the Village of Calumet Park existing on the effective date of this
subchapter, the provision, which in judgment of the Health Officer, establishes
the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety
of the people shall prevail.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982)
CODES ADOPTED
§ 116.25  FOOD STORE SANITATION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Village of Calumet Park, County of Cook and
State of Illinois: Retail Food Store Sanitation Code (October, 1992, Illinois
Department of Public Health) in its entirety, along with the following
additional provisions.
   (A)   When the conduct or operation of any retail food store covered by this
subchapter, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall violate this code in such a
way as to constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present danger to the
public health, safety or general welfare, or where the owner or operator of
such retail food store shall have refused to allow an inspection of his or her
premises, the Mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of
business and the closing of the premises until the danger no longer exists.
   (B)   Within eight days after a summary order by the Mayor pursuant to
division (A) above, the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the right to operate a business subject to the
Mayor's summary order shall be permanently revoked or reinstated, pursuant to
division (A) above.
   (C)   Notice of the hearing pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the retail food store owner/operator at his or her
last known address at least three days prior to the date set for the hearing.
If the retail food store operator receiving such a notice shall request a
continuance of the date of the hearing, the retail food store which is the
subject of the hearing shall remain closed until the conclusion of the hearing
and the decision shall have been issued.
   (D)   The hearing shall be conducted and the decision issued in accordance
with the provisions of state law.
(Ord. 94-637, passed 10-13-1994)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.26  FOOD SERVICE SANITATION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Village of Calumet Park, County of Cook and
State of Illinois: Food Service Sanitation Code (October, 1992, Illinois
Department of Public Health) in its entirety, along with the following
additional provisions.
   (A)   When the conduct or operation of any retail food store covered by this
section, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall violate this code in such a way
as to constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present danger to the
public health, safety or general welfare, or where the owner or operator of the
retail food store shall have refused to allow an inspection of his or her
premises, the Mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of
business and the closing of the premises until the danger no longer exists.
   (B)   Within eight days after a summary order by the Mayor pursuant to
division (A) above, the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the right to operate a business subject to the
Mayor's summary order shall be permanently revoked or reinstated, pursuant to
division (A) above.
   (C)   Notice of the hearing pursuant to the preceding division shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the retail food store owner/operator at his or her
last-known address at least three days prior to the date set for the hearing.
If the retail food store operator receiving such a notice shall request a
continuance of the date of the hearing, the retail food store which is the
subject of the hearing shall remain closed until the conclusion of the hearing
and the decision shall have been issued.
   (D)   The hearing shall be conducted and the decision issued in accordance
with the provisions of state law.
(Ord. 94-638, passed 10-13-1994)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
116.01 through
116.12 or fails to comply with any of their requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate a provision of §
116.25 shall, upon conviction thereof, be liable for a fine pursuant to §
10.99. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate a provision of §
116.26 shall, upon conviction thereof, be liable for a fine pursuant to §
10.99. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 82-400, passed 11-11-1982; Ord. 94-637, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. 94-638,
passed 10-13-1994; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 117:  FLEA MARKETS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   Daily vendor fee
   
117.04   Food vendor license
   
117.05   Inspections
   
117.06   Flea market operator
   
117.07   Vendor; merchandise to be held or impounded
   
117.08   Receipt of goods from minors
   
117.09   Sanitation
   
117.10   Animals not permitted
   
117.11   Parking; snow removal; traffic
   
117.12   Persons and sales excepted
   
117.13   Revocation
   
117.14   Hours of operation
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLEA MARKET OPERATION.  Includes any facility where activities take place
commonly known as but not limited to swap shops, penny markets, rummage sales
and where tangible articles are bought, sold or exchanged, and are not
otherwise regulated by the Village of Calumet Park.
   FLEA MARKET OPERATOR.  Includes any person, firm or corporation who owns or
controls the premises where a flea market operation is conducted.
   FLEA MARKET VENDOR.  Includes any person, firm or corporation who engages in
or conducts the activity of buying, selling or exchanging, whether on a casual
or regular basis, any tangible articles, whether new, second-hand or used, in
any flea market operation.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person, firm or corporation shall conduct, engage in,
maintain, operate, carry on or manage any flea market operation, either by
himself or herself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, without
first having obtained a license therefor.
   (B)   Application for business license to conduct flea market operation. Any
person, firm or corporation desiring to conduct a flea market operation shall
file a written application with the Village Clerk on a form to be furnished by
the Village Clerk. The applicant shall furnish the following together with its
application for a business license:
      (1)   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation or otherwise;
      (2)   The name, style and designation under which the flea market
operation is to be conducted;
      (3)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the business
is to be conducted;
      (4)   The following personal information concerning the applicant, if an
individual; and concerning each stockholder holding more than 10% of the stock
of the corporation, each officer and each director, if the applicant is a
corporation; and concerning the partners, including limited partners, if the
applicant is a partnership; and concerning the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business:
         (a)   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone
numbers;
         (b)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present
address of the applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age;
         (d)   The business experience of the individual, including but not
limited to whether or not such person has ever had a business permit or license
denied, revoked or suspended and the reason therefore; and
         (e)   All criminal convictions other than traffic violations fully
disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted, and the offense for which
convicted and the circumstances thereof.
      (5)   Evidence of insurance of a character and amount and in such form as
may be determined by the Mayor and Board of Trustees to provide for the payment
of any claim for personal injuries, including death, property damage or other
suits arising out of or connected with the flea market operation;
      (6)   Such other information as shall be deemed necessary by the Chief of
Police to discover the truth of the matters hereinbefore required to be set
forth in the application;
      (7)   Authorization for the Village of Calumet Park, its agent and
employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of
the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the
applicant for the business license;
      (8)   The applicant shall furnish information as may be required by the
Police Department, Fire Department and Building Department of the village
relating to the location where the operation shall be conducted. The
information shall include the type of construction, arrangement of stalls and
aisles, location of electrical wiring, location of exits, location of fire
equipment, location of parking lot showing the number of usable spaces,
location of sanitary facilities for the use of persons on the premises, as well
as such other relevant information as the Police Department, Fire Department
and Building Department may require; and
      (9)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, the declaration being duly dated and signed in the Village of Calumet
Park.
   (C)   Application review; examination of applicant.
      (1)   Copies of business license applications shall be submitted by the
Village Clerk to the Police Department, Fire Department and Building
Department.
      (2)   These departments shall review applications for a business license
to conduct a flea market operation and shall submit specific findings and
recommendations to the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the village on the
question of whether issuance of a business license to the applicant to conduct
a flea market operation at the proposed location would be injurious to the
public health, safety, morals and welfare.
      (3)   The Fire Department, Police Department and Building Department may
suggest that the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the village impose certain
conditions and restrictions upon the grant of a business license to conduct a
flea market operation to safeguard the public health, safety, morals and
welfare.
      (4)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park may
examine any applicant for a business license to conduct a flea market
operation.
   (D)   Issuance of business license. The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
village shall not issue a business license to a flea market operator to conduct
a flea market operation unless the Mayor and Board of Trustees are satisfied
from the business license application, the review reports of the Police
Department, Fire Department and Building Department and from examination of the
flea market operator that the proposed flea market operation will be conducted
in such a manner that it will not injure the public health, safety, morals and
welfare.
   (E)   Payment of fees.
      (1)   Every person, firm or corporation conducting a flea market
operation in the Village of Calumet Park shall pay a fee of $50 for a period of
one license year which shall begin on May 1 of the year for which such license
is issued and shall terminate on April 30 of the next year.
      (2)   No license shall be issued at the yearly rate of license fees
except for the full license year; provided, however, that where the license is
issued on or after the first day of November, the license fee shall be one-half
of the yearly license fee for the unexpired term of the license year.
      (3)   The business license fee shall be paid to the Village Clerk upon
approval of the business license application.
      (4)   The required fee for each license issued shall be collected in full
at the time of the issuance and delivery thereof.
      (5)   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license fee,
or part thereof, by reason of the death of the licensee or by any reason or
non-use of the license or discontinuance of the operation of the establishment.
      (6)   In the event a flea market establishment moves its place of
operation from one location in the village to another location in the village,
the charge for a new license shall be for the established prevailing rate for a
new location, with due credit given for the charge for the original effective
license.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.03  DAILY VENDOR FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Every person, firm or corporation who wishes to operate as a
flea market vendor in a licensed flea market operation shall pay the flea
market operator $2 per day for each space occupied by such vendor.
      (2)   The flea market operator shall collect the $2 daily fee from each
and every flea market vendor for each space so occupied and shall pay such fees
due to the village not later than the tenth of the next succeeding calendar
month.
   (B)   The flea market operator shall be responsible for payment of all such
fees to the village whether or not collected from the flea market vendor.
   (C)   No flea market vendor shall sell or offer for sale any item in a flea
market operation without having first paid the daily fee.
   (D)   Upon payment of the daily fee by the flea market vendor to the flea
market operator, the flea market operator shall issue a vendor tag to the flea
market vendor bearing the date for which the daily fee has been paid. The
vendor tag shall be in the form issued by the Village Clerk, and the Village
Clerk shall supply such forms to any flea market operator upon request. The
flea market vendor shall prominently display the vendor tag at the vendor's
space.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.04  FOOD VENDOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer for sale in any
flea market operation any meat, cheese, fish, fowl, produce or other food
without having first obtained a food vendor license for the business activity.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to sell food in a flea market
operation shall file a written application with the Village Clerk on a form to
be furnished by the Village Clerk. The applicant shall furnish the following
information:
      (1)   The type of ownership of the applicant, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation or otherwise;
      (2)   The name under which business is to be conducted;
      (3)   The following personal information concerning the applicant, if an
individual; and concerning each stockholder holding more than 10% of the stock
of the corporation, each officer and each director, if the applicant is a
corporation; and concerning the partners, including limited partners, if the
applicant is a partnership; and concerning the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business:
         (a)   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone
numbers; and
         (b)   The applicant's Illinois retail sales tax number.
      (4)   Other information as is required by ordinance for a food vendor's
license.
   (C)   The sale of meat, cheese, fish, fowl, produce and other food shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   All meats, cheeses, fowl or fish must be properly refrigerated on
the premises in accordance with good sanitary conditions as prescribed by the
Illinois Public Health Retail Food Sanitation Rules and Regulations, U.S.
Department of Health, Education and Welfare regulations, and State of Illinois
Department of Public Health regulations.
      (2)   All meats, cheeses, fowl or fish shall be prepared, stored,
transported and packaged in compliance with regulations outlined in Illinois
Public Health Retail Food Sanitation Rules and Regulations, U.S. Department of
Health, Education and Welfare regulations, and State of Illinois Department of
Public Health regulations.
      (3)   Each refrigerated compartment must maintain a temperature as
prescribed by the aforesaid regulations relating to the individual food
product. Refrigerated compartment must be electrically operated and must have a
thermometer affixed for the convenient reading of the prescribed temperature.
      (4)   The sale of meats, cheeses, fowl or fish by the slice is
prohibited.
      (5)   No diseased, contaminated or unwholesome meats, poultry or produce
shall be brought into or offered for sale at the flea market operation.
   (D)   The fee for the food vendor license required under this section shall
be $25 per license year or fraction thereof. The license year shall commence on
May 1 of the year of issue and terminate on April 30 of the next succeeding
year.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.05  INSPECTIONS.
   Officers of the Police Department, Fire Department, Building Department and
Health Department may inspect the flea market operation and any or all items
offered for sale or exchange from time to time during its hours of operation to
determine compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.06  FLEA MARKET OPERATOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every flea market operator to see that all
vendors using the flea market operation are advised of all provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The flea market operator may fully discharge its responsibility under
this section by serving a copy of this chapter on each flea market vendor.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.07  VENDOR; MERCHANDISE TO BE HELD OR IMPOUNDED.
   (A)   Articles which the Police Department have reasonable grounds to
believe were stolen may be impounded or left with the vendor under a hold order
at the discretion of any member of the Calumet Park Police Department.
   (B)   An article may be impounded or held under a hold order by the Calumet
Park Police Department for a period of 30 days pending investigation as to
ownership of the article.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any flea market vendor to dispose of any
property contrary to any hold order issued by a member of the Police
Department.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.08  RECEIPT OF GOODS FROM MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating as a flea market vendor, or
for any employee or agent thereof, to receive any articles by purchase or
otherwise from any minor with the intent to sell or exchange the articles at a
flea market operation.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09  SANITATION.
   (A)   The flea market operation shall be kept in a sanitary condition and no
person shall deposit or leave any matter, remnants, refuse or debris upon the
premises where the activity is being conducted.
   (B)   The flea market operator and flea market vendors shall be jointly
liable for the cleanliness of the flea market operation.
   (C)   The flea market operator shall make adequate and sufficient provisions
for sanitary facilities on the premises where the activity is being conducted.
   (D)   The sanitary facilities must be approved by the Health Department of
the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10  ANIMALS NOT PERMITTED.
   No animals except "seeing eye" dogs are permitted upon the premises where
the activity is being conducted.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11  PARKING; SNOW REMOVAL; TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No flea market operation may be conducted without a parking facility
located within 100 yards of the flea market operation. The parking facility
shall be paved and maintained in a safe and sanitary condition and shall
contain at least 100 usable spaces for cars.
   (B)   If the flea market operation continues to operate between December 1
and March 1, adequate provision shall be made for the removal of snow and ice
from the surface of the parking facility and from all sidewalks adjacent to the
parking facility, leading from the parking facility to the flea market
operation and adjacent to the flea market operation.
   (C)   The flea market operator shall develop and submit to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees of the village a plan for the control of traffic generated by
the flea market operation adequate and sufficient to facilitate the movement of
motor vehicle traffic and for the protection to the flea market operation and
the parking facility used in conjunction therewith.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.12  PERSONS AND SALES EXCEPTED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Religious, benevolent, charitable and civic organizations operating as
non-profit flea market vendors shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter, provided all articles presented for sale or exchange have been
donated; and
   (D)   Garage sale, which sale is hereby defined to mean the sale of any new
or used personal property which sale is conducted on or about the premises of a
private residence in a residential area as defined by the Zoning Ordinance, by
the owner or occupant or with the permission of the owner or occupant, and
which sale is open to the public.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.13  REVOCATION.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Calumet Park shall have
the authority to revoke or suspend a business license issued hereunder when it
finds after due notice and hearing that:
   (A)   The flea market operation is being conducted in violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance of the Village of Calumet Park or of the laws of
the State of Illinois; or
   (B)   The flea market operation is operating so as to constitute a nuisance
to the community.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.14  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No flea market operation shall be in operation on Monday, Thursday or Friday
nor before the hour of 6:00 a.m. nor after the hour of 6:00 p.m. on any other
day.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 84-435, passed 10-2-1984; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 118:  GARAGE SALES; PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Property permitted to be sold
   
118.03   Permit required
   
118.04   Written statement required
   
118.05   Permit fee
   
118.06   Permit conditions
   
118.07   Hours of operation
   
118.08   Exceptions
   
118.09   Pre-permit investigation
   
118.10   Display of sale property
   
118.11   Display of permit
   
118.12   Advertising signs
   
118.13   Public nuisance
   
118.14   Inspection; arrest authority of Inspector
   
118.15   Parking
   
118.16   Revocation and refusal of permit
   
118.17   Persons exempted from chapter
   
118.18   Separate violations
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE.  Includes all general sales, open to the public, conducted from
or on a residential premise in any residential zone, as defined by the Zoning
Ordinance, for the purpose of disposing of personal property including, but not
limited to, all sales entitled, "garage", "lawn", "attic", "porch", "basement",
"room", "backyard", "patio", "flea market", "rummage" or "liquidation" sale.
This definition shall not include a situation where no more than five specific
items are held out for sale and all advertisement of the sale specifically
names those items to be sold.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.
      (1)   Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by any individual
or members of his or her family or residing in his or her residence and
acquired in the normal course of living or maintaining a residence.
      (2)   It does not include new merchandise or any merchandise which was
purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.02  PROPERTY PERMITTED TO BE SOLD.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to sell or offer for sale, under
authority granted by this chapter, property other than personal property.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)  Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No garage sale shall be conducted unless and until the individuals desiring
to conduct the sale shall obtain a permit therefor from the Village Clerk.
Occupants of more than one residence may join in obtaining a permit for a
garage sale to be conducted at the residence of one of them.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)  Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04  WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   Prior to issuance of any garage sale permit, the individuals conducting the
sale shall file a written statement with the Village Clerk, at least five days
in advance of the proposed sale, (mailed applications must be postmarked at
least seven days in advance of the sale), setting forth the following
information:
   (A)   Full name and address of applicant or applicants;
   (B)   The location at which the proposed garage sale is to be held;
   (C)   The date, or dates upon which the sale shall be held;
   (D)   The date, or dates of any other garage sales within the current
calendar year; and
   (E)   An affirmative statement that the property to be sold was owned by the
applicant or applicants as his or their personal property and was neither
acquired nor consigned for the purposes of resale.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.05  PERMIT FEE.
   There shall be an administrative processing fee of $5 for the issuance of
the permit.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.06  PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The permit shall set forth and restrict the time and location of the
garage sale.
   (B)   No more than three such permits may be issued to one residence and/or
family household during any calendar year.
   (C)   If occupants of more than one residence join in requesting a permit,
then the permit shall be considered as having been issued for each and all of
the residences.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.07  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The garage sales shall be limited in time to no more than the daylight hours
of three consecutive days or two consecutive weekends (Saturday and Sunday).
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.08  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   If sale not held because of inclement weather.
      (1)   If a garage sale is not held on the dates for which the permit is
issued or is terminated during the first day of the sale because of inclement
weather conditions, and an affidavit by the permit holder to this effect is
submitted, the Village Clerk may issue another permit to the applicant for a
garage sale to be conducted at the same location within 30 days from the date
when the first sale was to be held.
      (2)   No additional permit fee is required.
   (B)   Fourth sale permitted. A fourth garage sale shall be permitted in a
calendar year if satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the
real property is first presented to the Village Clerk or his or her duly
authorized representative.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.09  PRE-PERMIT INVESTIGATION.
   Before issuing a permit, the Village Clerk may conduct an investigation as
may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.10  DISPLAY OF SALE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the
residence, in a garage, carport, and/or in a rear yard, but only in such areas.
   (B)   No personal property offered for sale at a garage sale shall be
displayed in the front or side yard areas of any such premise or in any public
right-of-way.
   (C)   However, a vehicle offered for sale may be displayed on a permanently
constructed driveway within the front or side yards.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.11  DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Any permit in possession of the holder or holders of a garage sale shall be
posted on the premises in a conspicuous place so as to be seen by the public
and the Village Inspector or Village Police.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.12  ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   Only the following specified signs may be displayed in relation to a pending
garage sale: (two signs permitted): two signs of not more than four square feet
shall be permitted to be displayed on the property of the residence where the
garage sale is being conducted. Signs on public property shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.13  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The individual to whom the permit is issued and the owner or tenant of
the premises on which the sale or activity is conducted shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum on the
premises during all hours of the sale or activity.
   (B)   No such individual shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct on the
premises nor permit vehicles to impede the passage of traffic on any roads or
streets in the area of the premises.
   (C)   All such individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any member of
the police or fire departments of the Village of Calumet Park in order to
maintain the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.14  INSPECTION; ARREST AUTHORITY OF INSPECTOR.
   A police officer or any other official designated by any village ordinance
to make inspections under the licensing or regulating ordinance or to enforce
the same, shall have the right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a
garage sale for the purpose of enforcement or inspection and may close the
premises from such a sale or arrest any individual who violates the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.15  PARKING.
   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable
law s and ordinances. Further, the Police Department may enforce such temporary
controls to alleviate any special hazards and/or congestion created by any
garage sale.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.16  REVOCATION AND REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   False information. Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked
or any application for issuance of a permit may be refused by the Village Clerk
if the application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading statement.
   (B)   Conviction of violation. If any individual is convicted of any offense
under this chapter, the Village Clerk is instructed to cancel any existing
garage sale permit held by the individual convicted and not to issue the
individual another garage sale permit for a period of two years from the time
of conviction.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.17  PERSONS EXEMPTED FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business wherein the sale would be
permitted by the zoning regulations of the Village of Calumet Park or under the
protection of the non-conforming use section thereof or any other sale
conducted by a manufacturer, dealer or vendor and which sale would be conducted
from properly zoned premises and not otherwise prohibited in other ordinances;
or
   (D)   Any bona fide charitable, eleemosynary, education, cultural or
governmental institution or organization when the proceeds from the sale are
used directly for the institution or organization's charitable purposes and the
goods or articles are not sold on a consignment basis.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.18  SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Every article sold and every day a sale is conducted in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977)
§ 118.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating the terms of this chapter shall be
fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense.
(Ord. 77-271, passed 10-13-1977; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 119:  RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE REGULATIONS
Section
License Regulations
   
119.01   Residential rental license
   
119.02   Security and safety inspection
   
119.03   Periodic security and safety inspection
   
119.04   Required reports
   
119.05   Exceptions
   
119.06   Crime-free housing seminar
   
119.07   Crime-Free Housing Coordinator
   
119.08   Crime-free lease addendum
   
119.09   Nuisance
   
119.10   Suspension or revocation of license; hearing; appeal
   
119.11   Violation of the "Crime-Free Lease Addendum" prohibited
Registration of Rental Property
   
119.25   Purpose and intent
   
119.26   Definitions
   
119.27   Applicability
   
119.28   Establishment of a registry
   
119.29   Registration of rental property
   
119.30   Maintenance requirements
   
119.31   Inspections
   
119.32   Provisions supplemental
   
119.33   Additional authority
   
119.34   Opposing, obstructing enforcement officer
   
119.35   Immunity of enforcement officer
   
119.36   Amendments
 
   
119.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Crime-Free Lease Addendum
LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 119.01  RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, and the interpretation
and application thereof, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein, unless the context in which
they are used shall indicate otherwise. When not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the present tense include the future, words in the singular
number include the plural number and words in the plural number include the
singular number. Words or phrases not defined shall be given their common and
ordinary meaning unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMMON AREA. Any area in a rented or leased building that is not within
the dwelling unit and is or may be used by all persons occupying the building.
      DESIGNATED AGENT. Any person or business entity hired or appointed to
oversee the property that is being rented for residential purposes. This term
shall also include any person that the owner has designated to accept notices
and processes.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any single or multi-family dwellings with multiple units,
rooming house, town home or condominium.
      LANDLORD. A person, trustee, corporation, business entity, condominium
owner, townhouse owner, homeowners association or other title holder engaged in
renting, leasing or operating a dwelling unit.
      TENANT. Any person who resides in a dwelling unit, regardless of whether
or not a written lease has been executed between the tenant and the landlord.
      VACANT. Any of the following: having no content within, empty, void,
without an incumbent or occupant, unfilled.
   (B)   Residential rental license required. No landlord shall rent, lease or
operate a dwelling unit unless a valid residential rental license has been
issued by the village.
   (C)   Residential rental license; application and renewal.
      (1)   Application. No residential rental license under this section shall
be issued except upon application filed with the Village Clerk, on forms
provided by the village. Application for a residential rental license shall be
made in the name of the landlord of the dwelling unit. The application shall
set forth, but not be limited to the following information:
         (a)   Name, home address, and business address of the landlord, a home
phone number, work phone number, cellular phone number and facsimile number of
the landlord. Post office boxes will not be accepted;
         (b)   If the applicant designates an agent, the application shall also
set forth the name, address and telephone number of the designated agent and
the authority of the designated agent to rent, manage, make expenditures and to
accept notices and process. Post office boxes will not be accepted;
         (c)   The address of the dwelling unit and number of units in the
dwelling unit; and
         (d)   Such other information as the village may require from time to
time.
      (2)   Renewal. Application for renewal shall be made in the same manner
as for a new residential rental license. No residential rental license shall be
renewed unless application has been made within 30 days prior to the expiration
date of a currently valid residential rental license.
   (D)   Crime Free Housing Committee (CFHC).  There shall be a Crime free
Housing Committee consisting of the following members that shall be
responsible, among other tasks, for issuing residential rental licenses,
conducting Crime Free Housing Seminars, and carrying out residential rental
license hearings:
      (1)   Fire Department head.
      (2)   Police Department head.
      (3)   Building Department head.
      (4)   Village Trustee.
      (5)   Village Clerk.
   (E)   Transferability.
      (1)   No residential rental license shall be transferable.
      (2)   Every person holding a residential rental license shall give
written notice to the Village Clerk within 24 hours after having conveyed or
otherwise transferred or disposed of the legal control of any licensed dwelling
unit. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of such dwelling unit. Each new owner of a dwelling
unit must obtain a new residential rental license.
   (F)   Residential rental licensing requirements. The CFHC shall not issue a
residential rental license unless the following requirements are met:
      (1)   After inspection by the Building Commissioner or code enforcement
official, the dwelling unit meets all applicable ordinances of the Village of
Calumet Park pertaining to health, safety and fire prevention and applicable
rules and regulations adopted thereto, and all laws of the State of Illinois
regarding a dwelling unit.
      (2)   The landlord or designated agent, attends and completes the Crime-
Free Housing Seminar sponsored by the village.
      (3)   The landlord shall provide a current list of tenants and dwelling
units that they occupy. This list shall be updated by the license holder or
applicant upon occupancy of any new tenant.
      (4)   In the event a landlord files a residential rental license
application, satisfies licensing requirements and a Crime-Free Housing Seminar
is not available, a conditional license may be issued. Said license must be
approved by the CFHC.
   (G)   Residential rental license term. A residential rental license shall be
issued by the CFHC in accordance with the provisions of this section for a
period of one calendar year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked,
and may be renewed annually. All residential rental licenses shall begin on May
1 and expire on April 30 of the next after issuance, unless previously revoked.
   (H)   Residential rental license fee.
      (1)   The annual fee for a residential rental license shall he paid at
the time of the application. The annual fee is as follows:
         (a)   One unit: $100 per year.
         (b)   Two or more units: $200 per year.
      (2)   If a change in the ownership of a dwelling unit occurs during a
licensing period, the residential rental license fee for the new owner shall be
determined on a prorated basis.
   (I)   Residential rental license display. Each residential rental license
shall be displayed in the foyer or other conspicuous place within the common
area of the dwelling unit.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.02  SECURITY AND SAFETY INSPECTION.
   (A)   No residential rental license shall be issued or renewed unless the
dwelling unit along with its common areas has undergone a security and safety
inspection and are found, alter a security and safety inspection, to meet all
applicable laws and regulations of the village. Where there is a change in
ownership of a dwelling unit, before a new residential rental license is
issued, the dwelling unit shall be subject to a security and safety inspection.
Any security and safety inspection shall be in addition to any other required
inspection pursuant to applicable village ordinances. The landlord or
designated agent will be provided with a security and safely inspection report
describing any condition that fails to meet security and safely guidelines and
constitutes a violation of any applicable laws or regulations of the village
and state, and shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to correct such
conditions. The fee for a security and safety inspection shall be $25 for every
new license or new lease agreement prior to a new tenant moving in.
   (B)   In the event that more than two follow up security and safely
inspections are required to determine compliance, the applicant shall pay an
additional service charge of $50 per unit inspected for each additional
security and safety inspection. Payment of the service charge must be made in
full prior to issuance of the residential rental license. Failure to correct
any violations shall result in the suspension or revocation of an existing
residential rental license or, in the case of a new residential rental license
application, the denial of a residential rental license application.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.03  PERIODIC SECURITY AND SAFETY INSPECTION.
   Every dwelling unit and its common area are subject to periodic security and
safely inspections by the village, at reasonable times and in a reasonable
manner, to ensure continuing compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations of the village or state. Whenever it appears, by a security and
safely inspection, that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of
the provisions of this section or of any applicable laws and regulations of the
village or state, the village shall serve the landlord or designated agent with
written notice of such violation, stating what action is required to correct
the violation and the time period allowed for correction. Such notice shall
state that unless the violations cited are corrected within the time allowed,
the residential rental license may be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.04  REQUIRED REPORTS.
   Every landlord or designated agent shall report to the Village Clerk any
change in the designated agent or any change in ownership of a dwelling unit
within seven days.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   The residential rental licensing requirements shall not apply to group homes
governed by the Specialized Living Centers Act, ILCS Ch. 405, Act 25, §§ 1 et
seq., dealing with the developmentally disabled, or other similar use governed
by state or federal laws, rules, or regulations.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.06  CRIME-FREE HOUSING SEMINAR.
   (A)   All persons applying for a residential rental license and all persons
administering, managing or controlling the operation of any dwelling unit must
attend a Crime-Free Housing Seminar, administered by the CFHC, prior to the
issuance of the residential rental license. The seminar may be attended after
the application has been submitted. The residential rental license will be
issued after successful completion. Upon approval from the CFHC, seminars
attended in other towns that participate in the Crime-Free Housing Seminar will
also be accepted. Seminars will be held quarterly and information regarding
dates and times shall be available at Village Hall.
   (B)   In the event a landlord files a residential rental license
application, satisfies licensing requirements and a Crime-Free Housing Seminar
is not available, a conditional license may be issued. A conditional license
will be valid for three months or until the next available seminar date,
whichever arrives first, and upon successful completion of the seminar by the
landlord or designated agent, a residential rental license shall be issued for
the balance of the year ending on April 30.
   (C)   In the event a designated agent attends a Crime-Free Housing Seminar
in compliance with this section and such designated agent is no longer employed
or designated by the landlord for the dwelling unit, the landlord or a new
designated agent shall successfully complete the next available Crime-Free
Housing Seminar.
   (D)   A residential rental license shall not be renewed if attendance at the
Crime-Free Rental Housing Seminar is required and not completed within three
months of notice. Notice shall be delivered or mailed to the landlord or
designated agent at the address designated on the most recent residential
rental license application.
   (E)   At any time after the date of issuance of a residential rental
license, a landlord or designated agent shall be required to attend and
successfully complete the Crime-Free Housing Seminar, upon the occurrence of
any of the following events:
      (1)   If a dwelling unit, subject to the residential rental license, is
in danger of becoming a nuisance or disorderly house; and
      (2)   If criminal activity is occurring or has occurred at the dwelling
unit or on the property where the dwelling unit is located and the landlord is
failing or has failed to initiate eviction proceedings or take other
appropriate action.
   (F)   At any time after the date of issuance of a residential rental
license, a landlord or designated agent may be required to attend a hearing in
front of the CFHC for potential revocation of said rental license if:
      (1)   If a dwelling unit, subject to the residential rental license,
continues to be a nuisance or disorderly house; or
      (2)   If criminal activity continues to occur at the dwelling unit or on
the property where the dwelling unit is located and the landlord is failing or
has failed to initiate eviction proceedings or take other appropriate action.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.07  CRIME-FREE HOUSING COORDINATOR.
   A Crime-Free Housing Coordinator shall be designated by the CFHC. The Crime
Free Housing Coordinator shall provide the Village Clerk with a list of
landlords and designated agent, who have attended the Crime-Free Housing
Seminar, along with dates of attendance and verification that the landlord or
designated agent has otherwise complied with this section to be eligible for
issuance or renewal of a residential rental license.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.08  CRIME-FREE LEASE ADDENDUM.
   Every lease or other agreement for rental or lease of any residential
property, including extensions, shall contain a "Crime-Free Lease Addendum."
The "Crime-Free Lease Addendum" shall be in substantially the form set out in
Appendix A to this chapter.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.09  NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared a nuisance and a violation of this Code against the
health, peace and comfort or the village for any landlord or designated agent
to allow or permit the following to occur on their property;
   (A)   Rental of a dwelling unit to a tenant who allows any of the following
offenses to occur relating to the tenant, member or the tenant household, guest
or other party under control of the tenant to occur: murder, kidnapping,
aggravated kidnapping, prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, pandering,
child pornography, harmful materials, criminal housing management, possession
of explosives, unlawful use of weapons, sale of firearms, gambling, keeping a
gambling place, concealing a fugitive, violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, violation of the Cannabis Control Act or commission of any two
or more of any other crimes under the State of Illinois or under the federal
government not specifically listed above.
   (B)   Rental of a dwelling unit to a tenant who allows any of the following
offenses to occur relating to the tenant, member of the tenant's household,
guest or other party under control of the tenant to occur: commission of three
or more village ordinance violations in a six month period or an unreasonably
high number of calls for police service including, but not limited to, calls
that may fall within the descriptions listed above that when compared to other
properties in the Village of Calumet Park of similar type, or which otherwise
reasonably indicate that the activity at this property is out of character for
the area and is impacting the quality of life in those areas.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.10  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING; APPEAL.
   The CFHC may suspend or revoke any residential rental license, on not less
than five days notice to the licensee and an opportunity for a hearing,
whenever the CFHC finds that a licensee has failed or refused to correct any
violation of any law or regulation applicable to the property, after reasonable
notice and opportunity to take corrective action. Any person whose residential
rental license has been suspended or revoked by the CFHC shall be entitled to
an appeal to the Mayor. Said appeal must be filed with the Village Clerk within
seven days of the notice of suspension or revocation. If the Mayor denies said
appeal, an appeal may then be made to the Board of Trustees. The Board of
Trustees' decision shall be final and binding.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
§ 119.11  VIOLATION OF THE CRIME-FREE LEASE ADDENDUM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit any tenant to occupy any
dwelling unit in violation of any provision of the "Crime-Free Lease Addendum"
required by this section.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
REGISTRATION OF RENTAL PROPERTY
§ 119.25  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Mayor and Board of Trustees to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the village and to ensure owners and
occupants share responsibility to prevent and avoid nuisances in the village.
The purpose of this subchapter is to identify rental property in the village,
to ensure that such properties afford tenants a safe and decent place to dwell,
and to require rental property with substandard conditions to meet and maintain
minimum building and housing code standards, exterior maintenance standards,
and to reduce criminal activity. The Mayor and Board of Trustees has determined
that requiring that all rental properties be registered with the village and
inspected serves these legitimate governmental interests.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.26  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer, building official, zoning
inspector, code enforcement officer, fire inspector, building inspector, or
other person authorized by the village to enforce the applicable code(s).
   LANDLORD. One or more persons, jointly or severally, in whom is vested all
or part of the legal title to the premises or all or part of the beneficial
ownership and a right to the present use and enjoyment of the premises,
including a mortgage holder in possession of a rental unit. Also see OWNER.
   OWNER. Every person, entity, landlord, or mortgagee, who alone or severally
with others:
      (1)   Has legal or equitable title to any rental dwelling, dwelling unit,
mobile dwelling unit, building, structure, parcel of land, vacant or otherwise,
including but not limited to, a mobile home park; or
      (2)   Has legal care, charge or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit,
mobile dwelling unit, building, structure or parcel of land, vacant or
otherwise, including a mobile home park, in any capacity, including but not
limited to, agent, executor, executrix, administrator, administratix, trustee
or guardian of the estate of the holder of legal title; or
      (3)   Is a mortgagee in possession of any such property, or is a
mortgagee with actual control of access to the property by any means including,
but not limited to, changing locks or putting on a lock box; or
      (4)   Is an agent, trustee, or other person appointed by the courts and
vested with possession or control of any such property.
      (5)   The property manager shall not be considered the owner.
   PROPERTY MANAGER.  Any party designated by the owner as responsible for
inspecting, maintaining and securing the property as required in this
subchapter.
   RENTAL PROPERTY shall mean any structure or portion of a structure within
the village which is occupied by someone other than the owner of the real
estate for residential or commercial purposes, including but not limited to the
following: mobile homes, mobile home spaces, town homes, dormitories, and
condominium unit(s), and for which the owner receives any value or
consideration, including but not limited to money, or the exchange of goods or
services, regardless of the relationship between lessor and lessee.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.27  APPLICABILITY.
   These sections shall be considered cumulative and not superseding or subject
to any other law or provision for same, but rather be an additional remedy
available to the village above and beyond any other state or village provisions
for same.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.28  ESTABLISHMENT OF A REGISTRY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of §
119.27, the village, or its designee, shall establish a registry cataloging
each rental property within the village, containing the information required by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.29  REGISTRATION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Every owner of rental property shall, prior to permitting occupancy
thereof by any person (or, within 60 days of the enactment of this subchapter)
register the property with the Code Enforcement Department, or its designee, on
forms or other manner as directed. A separate registration is required for each
rental property. Registration shall be required annually becoming due on the
anniversary date of the initial obligation to register.
   (B)   Registration pursuant to this section shall contain the name(s),
direct mailing address, a direct contact name, telephone number, and e-mail
address for the owner, and, if the owner does not reside within 50 miles of the
rental property, the name and 24-hour contact phone number for the property
manager. The registration shall also identify the name(s), direct mailing
address, a direct contact name, telephone number, and e-mail address for the
all persons authorized by the owner to occupy the rental property.
   (C)   (1)   At the time of initial registration, each registrant shall pay a
non-refundable annual registration fee of $50 for each registration required by
this section. Subsequent annual registrations as required by this subchapter
are due within ten days of the expiration of the previous registration. Said
fees shall be used to offset the costs of:
         (a)   Registration and registration enforcement;
         (b)   Code enforcement and mitigation related to rental properties;
and
         (c)   For any related purposes as may be adopted in the policy set
forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   Said fees shall be deposited to a special account in the Village's
Department dedicated to the cost of implementation and enforcement of this
subchapter and fulfilling the purpose and intent of this subchapter.
   (D)   Any person or other legal entity that has registered a property under
this section must report any change of information contained in the
registration within ten days of the change.
   (E)   If the rental property is sold, the new owner is subject to all the
terms of this subchapter. If the new owner does not immediately occupy the
property, the new owner shall register the rental property or update the
existing registration within ten days of the sale. Any and all previous unpaid
fees, fines, and penalties at the time initial registration and/or renewal
registrations were required and are subject to enforcement per this article.
The previous owner will not be released from the responsibility of paying all
previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that owner's
involvement with the rental property. The provisions of this section are
cumulative with and in addition to other available remedies. Moreover, the
village is authorized and empowered to collect on the previous owner's non-
payment of previous fees, fines, and penalties in any lawful manner.
   (F)   If the rental property is not registered, or either the registration
fee or the renewal fee is not paid within 30 days of when the registration or
renewal is required pursuant to this section, a late fee equivalent to 10% of
the registration fee shall be charged for every 30-day period, or portion
thereof, the property is not registered and shall be due and payable with the
registration. This section shall apply to the initial registration and
registrations required by subsequent owners of rental property. Registrations
delinquent greater than 30 days are also subject to additional fines as
described herein.
   (G)   Failure of the owner of record to properly register or to modify the
registration to reflect a change of circumstances as required by this
subchapter is a violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the village.
   (H)   If any property is in violation of this subchapter the village may
take the necessary action to ensure compliance with and place a lien on the
property for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost
incurred to the property into compliance.
   (I)   Registration of a rental property does not alleviate the owner from
obtaining all required licenses, permits and inspections required by the
applicable code.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.30  MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be kept free of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspaper circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by
federal, state or local law, discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material,
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar markings
by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches the color
of the exterior structure.
   (C)   Front, side, and rear yards, including landscaping, shall be
maintained in accordance with the applicable code(s) at the time registration
is required.
   (D)   Yard maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, grass, ground
covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod. Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or landscape shall not
include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar material.
   (E)   Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering,
irrigation, cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape and
removal of all trimmings.
   (F)   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the regulations set forth in the
applicable code(s).
   (G)   Failure of the owner to properly maintain the property may result in a
violation of the applicable code(s) and issuance of a citation or notice of
violation in accordance with the applicable code of the village. Pursuant to a
finding and determination by the Village Sheriff, Magistrate or a court of
competent jurisdiction, the village may take the necessary action to ensure
compliance with this section.
   (H)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be maintained in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the village.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.31  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   If a rental property is not in compliance with applicable code(s), the
owner, or if the owner does not reside within 50 miles of the rental property,
the property manager, shall perform the work necessary to bring the property
into compliance with the applicable code(s), and the owner or property manager
must perform regular inspections to verify compliance with the requirements of
this subchapter, and any other applicable laws.
   (B)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be secured in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the village.
   (C)   Failure of the owner of record to properly inspect and secure a
property subject to this subchapter and applicable code(s) is a violation and
shall be subject to enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to
the village. The village may take the necessary action to ensure compliance
with this section, and recover costs and expenses in support thereof.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.32  PROVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAL.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit the village from
enforcing its codes by any other means, including, but not limited to,
injunction,
abatement, or as otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.33  ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   If the enforcement officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this subchapter is posing a serious threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare, the code enforcement officer may
temporarily secure the property at the expense of the owner, and may bring the
violations before the code enforcement Mayor and Board of Trustees or special
magistrate as soon as possible to address the conditions of the property.
Nothing herein shall limit the village from abating any nuisance or unsafe
condition by any other legal means available to it.
   (B)   The Sheriff, code enforcement Mayor and Board of Trustees or special
magistrate shall have the authority to require the owner affected by this
section, to implement additional measures including, but not limited to,
securing any and all doors, windows or other openings, employment of an on-site
security guard or other measures as may be reasonably required to help prevent
further decline of the property.
   (C)   If there is a finding that the condition of the property is posing a
serious threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, then the Sheriff,
code enforcement Mayor and Board of Trustees or special magistrate may direct
the village to abate the violations and charge the owner with the cost of the
abatement.
   (D)   If the owner does not reimburse the village for the cost of
temporarily securing the property, or of any abatement directed by the Sheriff,
code enforcement officer, code enforcement Mayor and Board of Trustees or
special magistrate, within 30 days of the village sending the owner the invoice
then the village may lien the property with such cost, along with an
administrative fee as determined in the village's fee ordinance to recover the
administrative personnel services. In addition to filing a lien the village may
pursue financial penalties against the owner.
   (E)   The village may contract with an entity to implement this chapter,
and, if so, any reference to the enforcement officer herein shall include the
entity the village contract with for that purpose.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.34  OPPOSING, OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Whoever opposes, obstructs, or resists any enforcement officer or any person
authorized by the enforcement office in the discharge of duties as provided in
this subchapter shall be punishable as provided in the applicable code(s) or a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.35  IMMUNITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Any enforcement officer or any person authorized by the village to enforce
the sections here within shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal,
for reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.36  AMENDMENTS.
   Registration and penalty fees outlined in this subchapter may be modified by
administrative order, passed and adopted by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 119.99  PENALTY.
   (A)    Unless otherwise specified in this section, any violation of §§
119.01 through
119.11 may result in revocation of the residential rental license and a
possible fine pursuant to §
10.99. Each day that a violation exists shall be a separate offense. Each
violation in each dwelling unit in a multi-unit structure which is in violation
of those sections shall be a separate and distinct violation.
      (2)   Proceedings to enforce violations of §§
119.01 through
119.11 may be initiated and conducted in accordance with and pursuant to the
provisions of Ordinance 01-764 or by any other means provided by law.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided for, a violation of §§
119.25 through
119.36 is declared unlawful and will be punished pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016; Ord. 18-1207, passed 9-13-2018; Ord. 20-1236,
passed 5-28-2020)
APPENDIX A: CRIME-FREE LEASE ADDENDUM
   In consideration for the execution on renewal of a lease of the dwelling
unit identified in the lease. Manager or owner and Tenant agree as follows:
   1.   The Tenant, any member of the Tenant’s household, any guest or any
other person associated with the Tenant and under the Tenant’s control
regardless of whether the individual engaging in such activity is a member of
the household, on or near the leased premises:
      a)   Shall not engage in or facilitate criminal activity, including drug-
related criminal activity, on or near the leased premises. “Drug related
criminal activity” means the illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use, or
possession of any illegal or controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802;
      b)   Shall not engage in any act intended to facilitate criminal
activity; and
      c)   Shall not permit the Dwelling Unit to be used for or to facilitate
any criminal activity.
      d)   Shall not engage in any act intended to facilitate any violation of
local municipal ordinances or codes on any other violation as defined by local,
state, or federal law and/or obstruction or resistance of law enforcement
effort against criminal activity on or near the rental until, common areas, or
appurtenances.
      e)   Shall not permit on or near the rental unit, common areas, or
appurtenances to be used for or to facilitate any violations of local municipal
ordinances or codes or any other violations of local, state, or federal law.
   2.   ANY ACTIVITY PROHIBITED BY THIS AGREEMENT SHALL CONSTITUTE A
SUBSTANTIAL VIOLATION OF THE LEASE, MATERIAL NONCOMPLIANCE WITH THE LEASE, AND
GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION OF TENANCY AND EVICTION.
   3.   Violation of the above provisions shall be a material and irreparable
violation of the lease and good cause for termination of tenancy. A violation
of any of the provisions of this added addendum shall be deemed a serious
violation and a material and irreparable non-compliance. It is understood that
a single violation shall be good cause for immediate termination of the lease.
There is no “good cause” requirement fo the State of Illinois for lease
terminations. Unless otherwise provided by law, proof of violation shall not
require criminal conviction but shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   4.   In case of conflict between the provisions of this addendum and any
other provisions of the lease, the provisions fo the addendum shall govern.
                                                                              
                                         
Resident Signature                     Date
                                                                              
                                         
Resident Signature                     Date
                                                                              
                                         
Property Owner/Manager’s Signature            Date
 
                                                                             
Name of Property
(Ord. 16-1139, passed 1-14-2016)
CHAPTER 120:  CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Provider fee imposed
   
120.03   Applicable principles
   
120.04   No impact on other taxes
   
120.05   Audits of service provider
   
120.06   Late fees and payments
§ 120.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. §522(6).
   COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges.
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
         (d)   Services charges related to the provisions of cable service or
video service, including but not limited to activation, installation, and
repair charges.
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including but not limited to service order and service
termination charges.
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges,
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments.
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection (i).
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications,
the portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or application shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-
801(b).
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi).
         (b)   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or Internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser's subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) with respect to the service.
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a municipality, state, federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes.
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the venue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 21-401.
   SERVICE. The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 21-801 by the holder to the village for the service areas within its
territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including Internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 322 (d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public Internet.
(Ord. 10-1008, passed 2-11-2010)
§ 120.02  PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder's gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the village. The holder shall notify the village at least
ten days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
   (D)   Holder's liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401(b)
(6) to the village.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)
with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the
amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under this section.
(Ord. 10-1008, passed 2-11-2010)
§ 120.03  APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 10-1008, passed 2-11-2010)
§ 120.04  NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be required to be aid by or through the holder
with respect to cable service or video service. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
village's simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it
applies to any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued
authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to
payment of the village's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 10-1008, passed 2-11-2010)
§ 120.05  AUDITS OF SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers to submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall
comply with the same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or
video service providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and
records and to recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the
requirements of the village. If all local franchises between the village and
cable operators terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the
village pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act (ILCS
Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.). No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the municipality's submission of an invoice for the
sum.
(Ord. 10-1008, passed 2-11-2010)
§ 120.06  LATE FEES AND PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments that are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayer's Bill
of Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.).
(Ord. 10-1008, passed 2-11-2010)
 
CHAPTER 121:  DEALERS IN SECOND HAND GOODS
Section
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   Licensing required
   
121.03   Application; investigation of applicant; qualifications
   
121.04   Business location; zoning; inspection; code compliance
   
121.05   Issuance of license
   
121.06   Annual fee
   
121.07   Duty to report stolen or lost articles
   
121.08   Record requirements
   
121.09   Identification required
   
121.10   Inspection of records
   
121.11   Daily report
   
121.12   Transactions with prohibited parties
   
121.13   Sale of property
   
121.14   Prohibited items
   
121.15   View from street
   
121.16   Revocation or suspension; hearing
 
   
121.99   Penalty
§ 121.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRECIOUS METALS AND STONES. Any articles combining precious metals,
including but not limited to silver, gold and platinum, such as, but not
limited to, commemorative coins or other items of memorabilia, United States or
foreign currency, or any articles containing any genuine diamond, ruby,
emerald, sapphire or pearl of any value and any other genuine stone or gem with
a value of more than $100.
   SECOND HAND GOODS.  Including but not limited to any of the following
described goods, wares and merchandise which was previously owned or used by
any person other than the manufacturer, wholesaler, or retailer:
      (1)   Antiques and collectibles.
      (2)   Artwork, including but not limited to paintings and sculptures.
      (3)   Audio-visual equipment, including but not limited to any stereo,
speaker, radio, video recorder, video camera, television set, tape or disc
player.
      (4)   Bicycles.
      (5)   Cameras and other photographic instruments and equipment.
      (6)   China.
      (7)   Computers, printers, software, and computer supplies.
      (8)   Clothing.
      (9)   Crystal.
      (10)   Electronic toys and games, and related equipment.
      (11)   Electronic equipment other than electronic toys and games.
      (12)   Fur coats and other fur clothing.
      (13)   Microwave ovens and other kitchen appliances.
      (14)   Mopeds, motor-scooters or similar devices.
      (15)   Office equipment.
      (16)   Pianos, organs, guitars, and all other musical instruments.
      (17)   Precious metals and stones, as defined herein.
      (18)   Silverware and flatware.
      (19)   Small electrical appliances.
      (20)   Sports equipment.
      (21)   Telephones, including, but not limited to pager and cellular
phones and other satellite signal devices.
      (22)   Tools.
      (23)   Trading cards and memorabilia.
      (24)   Valuable metals, as defined herein.
      (25)   Videotapes, digital video discs, compact discs, records,
audiotapes, digital audio discs, or similar audio or audio-visual recording
media.
   SECOND HAND GOODS DEALER. Any individual, corporation, business, partnership
or other entity who (1) engages in the business of purchasing, selling,
receiving, trading, consignment selling or otherwise transferring for value any
second hand goods, as defined herein, or (2) purchases any second hand goods,
as defined herein, for purposes of recycling or salvaging such items. A SECOND
HAND GOODS DEALER shall not include (1) pawn brokers licensed under Village of
Calumet Park Ordinance No._, (2) sales or exchanges of used articles and
materials conducted or controlled by
charitable religious or community organizations, including, but limited to,
schools, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and youth athletic groups, which accept
donated items to resell for fundraising activities, and (3) residents of the
village conducting garage sales held not more than two weekends every year
provided such residents are not engaged therein as a business. A second hand
goods dealer licensed hereunder is sometimes referred to as "licensee" herein.
   VALUABLE METALS. Aluminum, copper, lead, titanium, stainless steel, copper
alloy or brass, formed as a bar, cable, rod, tubing, wire, wire scrap, clamp,
connector, bushing or bearing or other appurtenances utilized or that can be
utilized by persons, firms, corporations or municipal corporations engaged in
either the generation, transmission or distribution of electric energy, in
telephone, telegraph or other communications, or by railroads, or any copper,
copper alloy or brass, or aluminum materials utilized for the purpose of
plumbing, storm doors and windows, siding, or gutters of building structures or
automotive parts.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.02  LICENSING REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct, engage in, maintain, operate
or carry on any business within the village dealing in second hand goods, wares
and merchandise, as defined herein, either by himself or itself, or through an
agent, employee or partner without first having obtained a license issued by
the village, as provided herein for each separate place, premises or location
where such business is to be conducted.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.03  APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   An application for a second hand goods dealer license shall be made on
a form provided by the Village Clerk, who shall provide a copy of application
to the Chief of Police, or his designee, to investigate each licensee
applicant. Each applicant shall pay a non-refundable fee of $250 with each
application submitted. The Chief of Police shall report in writing whether or
not the applicant has complied with the laws of the State of Illinois and the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the business, and whether the
applicant is a person of good character and repute. No license shall be issued
to any person, partnership, corporation or other entity, if any owner, manager,
partner, officer, director, employee or shareholder owning more than 5% of the
shares of stock in the corporation has been convicted of any felony offense or
convicted of the offense(s) of possession of stolen goods, burglary, robbery,
or who has been convicted of any criminal offense involving dishonesty or moral
turpitude.
   (B)   Every applicant for a second hand goods dealer license, as well as
every owner, partner, manager, officer, director, employee, and in the case, of
a corporate applicant, every shareholder owning more than 5% of the shares of
stock in the corporation shall undergo a criminal background investigation,
which investigation may include fingerprinting, prior to the issuance of a
second hand goods dealer license.
   (C)   Existing businesses located in the village on the date this chapter
becomes effective shall have 30 days to apply for a license hereunder after
receiving a written notice from the Village Clerk of the requirement to obtain
a license.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.04  BUSINESS LOCATION; ZONING; INSPECTION; CODE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Every applicant for a second hand goods dealer license shall state in
the application the address of the building and premises on which he or it is
conducting or proposing to conduct a business dealing in second hand goods.
   (B)   Prior to issuing any license required hereunder, the building and
premises used or proposed to be used for such business shall be inspected by
the appropriate village official or officials for compliance with all village
codes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including the requirements of this
chapter, as well as the laws of the State of Illinois and all other applicable
governmental rules and regulations. Also, prior to the reissuance of any
license required by this chapter, such building and premises shall be
reinspected if directed by the Mayor.
   (C)   Such building and premises shall comply with all village zoning,
building, fire and health codes, ordinances, rules and regulations, as well as
all other applicable village codes, ordinances, rules and regulations and shall
be maintained in good repair, free of litter and debris and kept in a safe
condition for employees, customers and other persons present therein or
thereon.
   (D)   Any business licensed under this chapter shall comply with all laws of
the State of Illinois and all other applicable governmental rules and
regulations and shall not be conducted, operated, maintained or carried on so
as to constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.05  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon compliance with all the requirements of this chapter, a second
hand goods dealer license shall be issued to the applicant for the business
location stated in the application (the "licensed premises").
   (B)   Each license shall be valid from the date of issuance until the
following April 30 and shall be subject to reissuance for the period from May 1
to April 30 of each year thereafter.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.06  ANNUAL FEE.
   The annual license fee for a second hand goods dealer license shall be $500.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.07  DUTY TO REPORT STOLEN OR LOST ARTICLES.
   Each licensee or employee or agent shall report to the Chief of Police any
article sought to be sold to the licensee or placed on consignment with the
licensee, if the licensee or his employee or its agent reasonably believes that
the article was stolen or that the article was lost and found by the person
attempting to sell it or place it on consignment.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.08  RECORD REQUIREMENTS.
   All licensees doing business in the village shall keep a standard record
book that has been approved by the Chief of Police. At the time of each and
every article being purchased or received on consignment, an accurate account
and description of such article including the brand name, if any; the amount of
money paid therefor; the time and date of the transaction; and the name and
residence address of the person selling or placing such article on consignment,
shall be entered into the record book. Any article purchased or received on
consignment shall be clearly digitally photographed in color so as to be able
to clearly identify such article, including any serial numbers or other
identifying marks. All photographs taken shall be maintained and preserved as
herein provided. All such entries shall be printed, typed or written in ink in
the record book at the time of the transaction in the English language. Record
book entries shall also include the serial number or other identification
number of the article received. This requirement does not apply to any articles
purchased from dealers possessing a federal employer identification number who
have provided a receipt to the licensee. No entry made in the record book shall
be erased, mutilated, altered or in any way changed.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.09  IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, agent or employee of a licensee
to fail to request and require identification to be shown by each person
selling any article to the licensee or placing such article on consignment with
the licensee. One form of identification shall be a valid driver's license or
identification card issued by a governmental entity which contains a photograph
of the person identified, as well as the person's address. If the pictured
identification is not government issued, then two forms of identification must
be shown, and at least one of the two forms must contain a photograph, and at
least one form of identification must include the person's residence address.
The licensee, agent, or employee of the licensee shall photocopy all forms of
identification presented and retain such photocopies as records under §
121.10. In addition to a valid driver's license or government issued
identification card, other acceptable forms of pictured identification shall
include, but not be limited to, an employee or student identification card,
pictured credit card, or a pictured civic, union or professional association
membership card. If the person selling such article to the licensee or placing
such article on consignment with the licensee does not present identification
issued by a governmental entity, the licensee shall digitally photograph such
person in color print and record such person's name, residence address, date of
birth, gender, height and weight on the reverse side of the photograph.
   (B)   In addition to a record book the licensee shall maintain such records
required by this section in a computer form which has been approved in writing
by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   The licensee shall also have installed, and operating at all times
during business hours, a video surveillance camera positioned so as to record
all transactions, as well as the facial features of those persons selling any
article to the licensee or placing such article on consignment with the
licensee.
   (D)   All licensees shall subscribe to and participate in "leadsonline.com"
or any similar electronic database or data collection service. Any article
purchased or received on consignment shall be entered into the leadsonline.com
database within 12 hours of receipt of the article.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.10  INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The record book, computer generated records, video surveillance records,
digital photographs taken, as well as every article or other thing of value
purchased or received on consignment shall at all times be open to inspection
by the Chief of Police or any sworn law enforcement officer during the
licensee's business hours. The record book, any computer generated records and
all photographs taken shall be maintained for a period of three years after the
date on which the record was prepared. Video surveillance records shall be
maintained for a period of one year after the date on which the record was
prepared.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.11  DAILY REPORT.
   Except as may be otherwise provided herein, every licensee shall prepare and
deliver to the Chief of Police or his designee, on a daily basis before 12:00
p.m. (noon), a legible exact copy of the record book and computer generated
record, including copies of the digital photographs, as required herein. Such
record shall list all articles and other things of value, purchased or received
on consignment during the preceding 24 hour period, including the exact time
when such article was purchased or received on consignment, and the description
of the person or persons by whom the article was left on consignment or from
whom the article was purchased.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.12  TRANSACTIONS WITH PROHIBITED PARTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or his or its agent or
employee, to purchase any article or receive on consignment any article from a
person under the age of 18 years, or the ownership on which is claimed by such
minor, or which may be in the possession or control of any minor without the
written consent of such minor's parent or legal guardian. The consent must be
signed by such minor's parent or legal guardian in the presence of the licensee
or his employee or agent who must include the consent in the daily report
required under §
121.11.
   (B)   It shall be further unlawful for any licensee to purchase any article
or receive any article on consignment from any person appearing to be
intoxicated or under the influence of any drug or controlled substance or from
any person known to have been convicted of theft, burglary, deceptive
practices, robbery or armed robbery. It shall further be the duty of every
licensee, or agent or employee thereof, to return any article purchased or
received on consignment to the lawful owner of such article without the payment
of the money paid therefor by the licensee, or any other cost or charge of any
kind, in cases where such article has been stolen from or lost by its lawful
owner.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.13  SALE OF PROPERTY.
   No article purchased or received on consignment by any licensee shall be
sold by the licensee or removed from the place of business of such licensee for
a period of five days after delivery to the Chief of Police of those records
required herein.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.14  PROHIBITED ITEMS.
   No licensee, or agent or employee thereof, shall purchase or receive on
consignment any firearm, stun gun or taser or any article, the possession of
which is prohibited pursuant to Section 24-1(a)(1) of the Illinois Criminal
Code, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1).
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.15  VIEW FROM STREET.
   No person shall install, place or erect any blind, screen, curtain,
partition, article or other thing in the windows or upon the doors of any
licensed premises which prevents or restricts a clear and full view into the
interior of the licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk. The
interior of all licensed premises shall be illuminated by natural or artificial
white lights during all hours the licensed premises is open for business so
that all parts of the interior of the licensed premises are clearly visible
from the street, road or sidewalk.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011) 
Penalty, see § 121.99
§ 121.16  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; HEARING.
   (A)   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended for
not more than 30 days by the Mayor and Board of Trustees by reason of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, following a hearing.
   (B)   When a hearing is set by the Mayor and Board of Trustees in a
revocation or suspension proceeding, the licensee shall receive not less than
20 days written notice, which notice shall contain the charges made, as well as
the time and place when the hearing will be held.
   (C)   At a hearing conducted pursuant to this section, the licensee shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to present witnesses, to testify
and cross-examine any other witnesses. Proceedings shall be conducted under
oath.
   (D)   The Mayor shall preside at the hearing and the Mayor and Board of
Trustees shall make the final determination.
   (E)   If any decision adverse to the licensee is made by the Mayor and Board
of Trustees after a hearing as provided above, the Mayor shall provide the
licensee with the written reason or reasons for such decision, as well as a
notice of the licensee's right to seek administrative review of the decision.
   (F)   The provisions of the Administrative Review Act of Illinois (ILCS Ch.
735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.) shall apply and govern all proceedings for the
judicial review of final determinations of the Mayor and Board of Trustees
hereunder.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011)
§ 121.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary,
any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined pursuant
to §
10.99 for each offense. Each day on which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of the provisions of this chapter by an employee or agent
of the licensee shall be imputed to the licensee and shall be considered the
act of the licensee for which the license issued may be suspended or revoked as
provided by this section.
(Ord. 11-1029, passed 2-10-2011; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 122: ADULT REGULATED USES
Section
   
122.01   Purpose
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   Business license required
   
122.04   Adult cabaret and adult theater - prohibited conduct
   
122.05   Peep booths
   
122.06   Exterior display
   
122.07   Sale or consumption of alcohol
   
122.08   Nudity
   
122.09   Minors
   
122.10   Hours of operation
   
122.11   Violations
 
   
122.99   Penalty
§122.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to reduce and prevent the adverse
secondary effects of adult regulated uses. These regulations are not meant to
regulate the content of activities performed at adult regulated uses. The
village enacted these regulations pursuant to its substantial interest in
preventing crime, protecting retail trade, maintaining property values, and
generally protecting and preserving the quality of the village's neighborhoods,
commercial districts, and urban life. Furthermore, it is not the purpose of
these regulations to deny anyone a reasonable opportunity to open and operate
an adult regulated use within the village. The purpose of these regulations is
to ameliorate the adverse secondary effects of adult regulated uses.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions contained in Section 19.02 of
the Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Calumet Park apply and are adopted
herein by reference.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.03  BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult regulated use
without first obtaining a general business license. Unless otherwise provided
for herein,
Chapter 110, Licensing Provisions, of the Village of Calumet Park Municipal
Code, shall govern the application, issuance, renewal, suspension or revocation
of a business license.
   (B)   If the village denies an application for a business license or a
license renewal to operate an adult regulated use or revokes or suspends a
business license to operate an adult regulated the use, the applicant or other
aggrieved party may file a written appeal with the Board of Trustees within 14
days of the adverse administrative decision. The Board of Trustees shall
schedule a hearing date within seven days of the filing of the appeal. The
hearing date shall be held within 30 days of the date the appeal was filed.
Once the hearing is concluded, the Board of Trustees shall make a ruling and
mail the applicant the Board's written decision within 14 days of the date of
the conclusion of the hearing. If the denial, non-renewal, revocation or
suspension is affirmed by the Board of Trustees, the decision may be reviewed
in the Circuit Court of Cook County, or any court of competent jurisdiction,
through certiorari or any other available remedy.
   (C)   The denial, non-renewal, revocation or suspension of a business
license shall not be based on any intent to deny access by adults to adult
regulated uses.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.04  ADULT CABARET AND ADULT THEATER - PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No adult regulated use shall allow any person, employee, entertainer
or patron to have any physical contact with any entertainer while the
entertainer is dancing or performing in a state of semi-nudity within such
establishment or on its property.
   (B)   All dancing or performing by an employee or entertainer at an adult
use shall occur on a stage or table that is elevated at least 18 inches above
the immediate floor level and shall not be less than five feet from any area
occupied by any patron.
   (C)   No patron shall directly pay for any service or dance, or give any
gratuity/tips to any dancer or performer at an adult regulated use, and no
dancer shall solicit from any patron any gratuity or tip. Any tips or
gratuities for dancers or performers of any adult regulated use must be placed
in a designated box within the facility not located on the dancing or
performance stage.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§122.05  PEEP BOOTHS.
   If an adult regulated use has one or more peep booths, as defined in Section
19.02 of the Village Zoning Code, then the operator must comply with the
following requirements:
   (A)   The operator shall submit, as part of the business license
application, a diagram specifying the location of one or more manager's
stations, the location of all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any
areas of the premises at which patrons will not be permitted. The manager's
station(s) may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area, with no dimension
greater than eight feet, and at least one employee must be on duty at the
station at all times that any patron is present on the premises.
   (B)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view between the manager's station and any area of the
premises to which a patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. The view
required in this section must be by direct line of site from a manager's
station.
   (C)   All peep booths shall:
      (1) Be visible from a well-illuminated continuous main aisle;
      (2)   Not be obstructed by any curtain, door or enclosure;
      (3)   Have all side and rear walls without holes or openings;
      (4)   Not be occupied by more than one person at the same time; and
      (5)   Be illuminated by an incandescent light no less than 25 watts.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.06  EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   All new adult regulated uses shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be one square foot of sign
area per foot of lot frontage on a street;
   (B)   Merchandise or pictures displaying specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, or instruments, devices, or paraphernalia designed
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or
sadomasochistic use or abuse, shall not be displayed in such a manner that such
merchandise, pictures, or signs are viewable from the exterior of the adult
regulated use business premises.
   (C)   Window areas shall not be covered or made opaque in any way. No sign
shall be placed in any window.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.07  SALE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL.
   The sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of an
adult regulated use is prohibited.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.08  NUDITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including employees, to appear nude or
in a state of nudity in any adult regulated use. It shall also be unlawful to
allow any person, including an employee, to appear nude or in a state of nudity
in any adult regulated use.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.09  MINORS.
   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age on the premises of an adult
regulated use is prohibited.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.10  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult regulated use shall operate between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.11  VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this chapter may constitute just cause for the suspension,
revocation or non-renewal of a business license. This section does not limit
the grounds for suspension, revocation or non-renewal of a business license,
nor does it limit the Village of Calumet Park from pursuing all available
remedies to the fullest extent provided by law.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 122.99  PENALTY.
   The penalty clause contained in §
10.99 of the Village of Calumet Park Municipal Code is adopted herein by
reference. Nothing herein shall prevent the Village of Calumet Park from taking
such other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation or non-compliance. Such other lawful actions
shall include, but are not limited to, an action for injunctive relief. All
remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be cumulative, and
the Village of Calumet Park is authorized to pursue all remedies to the fullest
extent provided by law.
(Ord. 17-1181, passed 7-13-2017)
CHAPTER 123: ADULT-USE CANNABIS
Section
   
123.01   Tax imposed
   
123.02   Tax collection
   
123.03   Records
   
123.04   Cannabis license
   
123.05   Effective date
§ 123.01  TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-23 of the Illinois Municipal Code upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling cannabis at retail in the village at a rate of 3% of
the gross receipts from the sales made in the course of that business.
   (B)   This tax does not apply to cannabis purchased under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
   (C)   This tax is in addition to all other taxes and fees imposed by the
Village of Calumet Park and State of Illinois.
(Ord. 19-1223, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 123.02  TAX COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this chapter and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident of the tax shall be collected and enforced by the
Illinois Department of Revenue.
   (B)   Persons subject to any tax imposed under this chapter may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
(Ord. 19-1223, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 123.03  RECORDS.
   Every person who is subject to this tax shall keep and maintain accurate and
complete documents, books, and records of each transaction or activity subject
to this section, from start to complete, including all original source
documents. All such books and records shall be kept by the owner and shall, at
all reasonable times during normal business hours, be open to inspection,
audit, or copying by the Mayor or his/her designee.
(Ord. 19-1223, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 123.04  CANNABIS LICENSE.
   If any holder of a village adult-use cannabis business license fails to
remain current in the payment of the tax imposed by this section, the adult-use
cannabis business license may be suspended or revoked by the local cannabis
commissioner or his or her designee, or the Mayor if the position of cannabis
commissioner is not established, until said tax is made current. No adult-use
cannabis may be sold from said premises until the tax has been paid.
(Ord. 19-1223, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 123.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage, approval,
and publication as provided by law, provided, however, that the tax provided
for herein shall take effect for all sales on or after January 1, 2020. Copies
of Ordinance 19- 1223 shall be certified and sent to the Illinois Department of
Revenue prior to September 30, 2019.
(Ord. 19-1223, passed 10-10-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
131.   MINORS; CURFEW
         
132.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
         
133.   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
         
134.   GRAFFITI; VANDALISM
         
135.   FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Retail theft as an offense
   
130.02   Impoundment of motor vehicles used in connection with the solicitation
of drugs or the unlawful use of weapons
   
130.03   Public urination
   
130.04   Damage to library grounds
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  RETAIL THEFT AS AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of retail theft when he or she knowingly
takes possession of, carries away, transfers or exerts unauthorized control
over any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile, establishment with the intention of depriving the merchant
permanently of the possession, use or benefit of the merchandise without paying
the full retail value.
   (B)   Retail theft shall also include the alteration, transfer or removal of
any price tag or similar marking in an attempt to purchase the merchandise at
less than full retail value.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT shall
mean any place where merchandise is displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
to the general public.
(Ord. 02-776, passed 1-10-2002)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES USED IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOLICITATION OF DRUGS OR THE UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Deadly weapons; unlawful use of deadly weapons. Unless exempted
pursuant to division (B) below, a person commits the offense of unlawful use of
weapons when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
black-jack, sling-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles, throwing star, or
any knife, commonly referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that
opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other
device in the handle of the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that
propels a knifelike blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic
material or compressed gas;
      (2)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character. A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in this
section means: any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as, batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of
wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of
disrupting the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him
incapable of normal functioning; or any device which is powered by electrical
charging units, such as batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or
clothing worn by a human, can send out current capable of disrupting the
person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her incapable of
normal functioning;
      (3)   Carries on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
      (4)   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his or
her person except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode or fixed
place of business any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm;
      (5)   Carries or possesses any firearm, stun gun or taser or other deadly
weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any
public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or
any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where
a showing, demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded
firearms is conducted;
      (6)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person, upon any public
street, alley or other public lands within the corporate limits of a city,
village or incorporated town, except when an invitee thereon or therein, for
the purpose of the display of such weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or
except when on his or her land or in his or her abode or fixed place of
business, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm; or
      (7)   Sells, manufactures or purchases any explosive bullet. For purposes
of this section EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal
case having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at
the rear end thereof, with the propellant contained in such tube between the
projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Exceptions. Division (A) above shall not apply to or affect any of
following:
      (1)   Peace officers or any person summoned by any such officers to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while he or she is actually
engaged in assisting the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty or commuting
between their homes and places of employment;
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad to perform police functions,
or employees of a detective agency, watchperson-guard or patrolperson agency,
licensed by the State of Illinois, while actually engaged in the performance of
the duties of their employment or commuting between their homes and places of
employment;
      (5)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Crime Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry weapons, while on duty in the
course of any investigation for the Commission;
      (6)   Manufacture or transportation of weapons which are not immediately
accessible to any person; sale of weapons to persons authorized under law to
possess them;
      (7)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives, or private alarm contractors, or employed by an agency certified by
the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation who have documentation on
their person if their duties include the carrying of a weapon under the
provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm and Private Security Act of
1983 (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 447, §§ 5-3 et seq.) while actually engaged in the
performance of the duties of their employment;
      (8)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to the commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force of at least five persons registered with the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation; provided that the security
guard has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised
by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation, consisting of not less
than 40 hours of training that includes the theory of law enforcement,
liability for acts, and the handling of weapons;
      (9)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons while on duty in
the course of any investigation for the Commission;
      (10)   Persons employed by a financial institution for the protection of
other employees and property related to such financial institution, while
actually engaged in the performance of their duties, commuting between their
homes and places of employment, or traveling between sites or properties owned
or operated by such financial institution, provided that any person so employed
has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 40
hours of training which includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts,
and the handling weapons;
      (11)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car, while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties;
      (12)   Investigators of the Office of the State's Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State's
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to the State's
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutors' Act (ILCS Ch. 725, Act 210, §§ 1 et seq).
      (13)   Special investigators appointed by a Sate's Attorney under Section
3-9005 of the counties Code (ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005);
      (14)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, while such members are using their firearms on such target ranges;
      (15)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Governor;
      (16)   Licensed hunters or fishermen while engaged in hunting or fishing;
      (17)   Transportation of weapons broken down in a nonfunctioning state;
or
      (18)   Such other exceptions as approved by the Illinois General
Assembly.
   (C)   Unlawful firearm in motor vehicle; impoundment.
      (1)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle used in connection with a
violation of Article 24 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 (ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq.) or division (A) above, or that contains a firearm or
ammunition for which a Firearm Owner's Identification Card is required under
the Illinois Owners Identification Card Act (ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 et
seq.) is not presented, shall be liable to the village for an administrative
penalty not to exceed $500, plus any towing and storage fees as hereinafter
provided in addition to the fine imposed under division (A) above. Any such
vehicle shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section.
This division shall not apply:
         (a)   If the vehicle used in the violation was stolen at that tine and
the theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24 hours
after the theft was discovered or reasonable should have been discovered; or
         (b)   If the vehicle is operating as a common carrier and the
violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle.
      (2)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is
towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying himself or
herself as the owner of the vehicle or any person who is found to be in control
of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, of the fact of the seizure
and of the vehicle owner's right to request a vehicle impoundment hearing to be
conducted under this section.
      (3)   Whenever the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to this
section makes a request of the Police Department in person and in writing for a
vehicle impoundment hearing after the seizure, a Hearing Officer shall conduct
the vehicle impoundment hearing within 24 hours after the seizure, excluding
Sundays and legal holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hears evidence shall be admissible.
If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines that there is probable
cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment under
division (C)(1) above, the Hearing Officer shall order the continued
impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section unless the owner of the
vehicle posts a cash bond in the amount of $500 plus any applicable towing and
storage fees.
      (4)   Unless a hearing has been held pursuant to division (C)(3) above,
within ten days after a vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this
section, the village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt requested,
the owner of record of the date, time and location of a hearing that will be
conducted pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be scheduled and held,
unless continued by order of the Hearing Officer, no later than 30 days after
the vehicle was seized. The hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer
appointed by the Village Mayor. All interested persona shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. If, after the hearing, the
Hearing Officer determines by a preponderance of evidence none of the
exceptions described in clauses division (C)(1)(a) or (b) applies, the Hearing
Officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly
liable to the village for an administrative penalty in the amount not to exceed
$500. If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall enter a default order in favor of the village requiring the
payment to the village of an administrative penalty in an amount not to exceed
$500. If the Hearing Officer finds that no such violation occurred, the Hearing
Officer shall order the immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond.
      (5)   If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this section,
such penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. If a cash
bond has been posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied to the
penalty. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a penalty is imposed the
village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment
against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this
section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until:
         (a)   The penalty, plus any applicable towing and storage fees, is
paid to the village, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be given to
the person who is legally entitled to possess the vehicle; or
         (b)   The vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a
judgment or enforce a lien as provided by law.
            1.   If the administrative penalty and applicable fees are not paid
within 30 days after an administrative penalty is imposed under division (C)(4)
above against an owner of record who defaults by failing to appear at the
hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the
manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all other
cases, if the administrative penalty and applicable fees are not paid within 30
days after the expiration of time at which administrative review of the Hearing
Officer's determination may be sought, or within 30 days after an action
seeking administrative review has been resolved in favor of the village,
whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed
vehicles under § 4-208 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 4-208).
            2.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner,
lienholder or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
vehicle impounded under this section until the civil penalty and fees
applicable under this section have been paid. However, whenever a person with a
lien of record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or
she agrees in writing to refund to the village the amount of the net proceeds
of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lienholders of
record, up to $500, plus applicable fees.
      (6)   For purposes of this section, the OWNER OF RECORD of a vehicle is
the record title holder.
   (D)   Soliciting of drugs.
      (1)   Attempt to solicit drugs. It is unlawful for any person to solicit
or to attempt to obtain cannabis as defined in the Illinois Cannabis Control
Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.), or a controlled substance as defined
by the Illinois Controlled Substance Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 1 et seq.),
with an intent to possess by request, contract, agreement, command or
understanding.
      (2)   Attempt to solicit from vehicle; impoundment. The owner of record
of any motor vehicle which is used in connection with a violation of division
(D)(1) above, or that contains cannabis as defined by the Illinois Cannabis
Act, or a controlled substance as defined by the Illinois Controlled Substance
Act, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment and liable to the village for
an administrative penalty not to exceed $500, plus any towing and storage fees
as hereinafter provided.
         (a)   This division shall not apply:
            1.   If the vehicle used in the violation was stolen at that time
and the theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24
hours after the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered;
or
            2.   If the vehicle is operating as a common carrier and the
violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle.
         (b)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is
towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as the
owner of the vehicle or any parson who is found to be in control of the vehicle
at the time of the alleged violation, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle owner's right to request a vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted
under this section.
         (c)   Whenever the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to
this section makes a request of the police department in person and in writing
for a vehicle impoundment hearing after the seizure, a Hearing Officer shall
conduct the vehicle impoundment hearing within 24 hours after the seizure,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the vehicle impoundment hearing. The
formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence
shall be admissible. If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines that
there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to seizure and
impoundment under division (D)(2), the Hearing Officer shall order the
continued impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section unless the
owner of the vehicle posts with the department of revenue a cash bond in the
amount not to exceed $500, plus any applicable towing and storage fees.
         (d)   Unless a hearing is held pursuant to division (D)(2)(c) above,
within ten days after a vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this
section, the village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt requested,
the owner of record of the date, time and location of a hearing that will be
conducted pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be scheduled and held,
unless continued by order of the Hearing Officer, no later than 30 days after
the vehicle was seized. The hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer
appointed by the Village Mayor. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. If, after the hearing, the
Hearing Officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was
used in connection with a violation of division (D)(1) above, and that none of
the exceptions described in division (D)(2)(a) or (b) applies, the Hearing
Officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly
liable to the village for an administrative penalty in the amount not to exceed
$500. If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall enter a default order in favor of the village requiring the
payment to the village of an administrative penalty in an amount not to exceed
$500. If the Hearing Officer finds that no such violation occurred, the Hearing
Officer shall order the immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond.
         (e)   If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this
section, that penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. If
a cash bond has been posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied
to the penalty. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a penalty is imposed,
the village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment
against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this
section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until: the penalty, plus any
applicable towing and storage fees, is paid to the village, in which case
possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled
to possess the vehicle; or the vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to
satisfy a judgment or enforce a lien as provided by law. If the administrative
penalty and applicable fees are not paid within 30 days after an administrative
penalty is imposed under division (D)(2)(d) against the owner of record who
defaults by failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed
unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles.
         (f)   In all other cases, if the administrative penalty and applicable
fees are not paid within 30 days after the expiration of time at which
administrative review of the Hearing Officer's determination may be sought, or
within 30 days after an action seeking administrative review has been resolved
in favor of the village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed
unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles under § 4-208 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-208).
         (g)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner,
lienholder or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
vehicle impounded under this section until the civil penalty and fees
applicable under this section have been paid. However, whenever a person with a
lien of record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or
she agrees in writing to refund to the village the amount of the net proceeds
of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lienholders of
record, not to exceed $500, plus the applicable fees.
      (E)   For purposes of this section, the OWNER OF RECORD of a vehicle is
the record title holder.
(Ord. 95-659, passed 11-21-1995)
§ 130.03  PUBLIC URINATION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC WAY.  Any sidewalk, roadway, alley or other public thoroughfare
open to the use of public, as a matter of right, for purposes of travel,
excepting bridle paths.
   (B)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate upon any
public way in the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 02-806, passed 12-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  DAMAGE TO LIBRARY GROUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit
injury upon or otherwise damage the library building or grounds or other
property pertaining to the Library in the Village of Calumet Park, County of
Cook and State of Illinois.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to injure,
damage, deface or destroy any book or books belonging to the library.
(Ord. 64-5-1, passed 5-22-1964) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person found guilty of violating §
130.01 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
   (C)   Any violation of §
130.02 shall be punished by a fine pursuant to §
10.99 for any one offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.03 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each and every offense.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any provision of §
130.04 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 64-5-1, passed 5-22-1964; Ord. 95-659, passed 11-21-1995; Ord. 02-776,
passed 1-10-2002; Ord. 02-806, passed 12-12-2002; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-
2020)
CHAPTER 131:  MINORS; CURFEW
Section
Improper Supervision
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Offense
Curfew for Juveniles
   
131.15   General provisions
   
131.16   [Reserved]
   
131.17   Parent; guardian
   
131.18   Defenses
   
131.19   Violations
 
   
131.99   Penalty
IMPROPER SUPERVISION
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KNOWINGLY.  Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief, which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
   RECKLESSLY.  Acting in a manner or under circumstances such as to evince
disregard of or indifference to consequences involving danger to the property,
life or safety of others.
   UNSUPERVISED.  A lack of visual or oral oversight coupled with the lack of
sufficient proximity to obtain immediate control over the item or the minor.
   WILFUL.  Proceeding from a conscious and voluntary intentional motion of the
will.
(Ord. 93-610, passed 9-23-1993)
§ 131.02  OFFENSE.
   (A)   Any parent, legal guardian or other person charged with the
supervision of a minor commits improper supervision of a child when he or she
knowingly permits a child in his or her custody or control, under the age of 18
years:
      (1)   To associate with known thieves, burglars, felons, narcotics
addicts or other persons of ill repute; or to visit a place of prostitution; or
to commit a lewd act; or to commit an act tending to break the peace; or to
commit any other act which violates a municipal ordinance;
      (2)   To avoid his or her obligation to pay any fine, make any
restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon the minor, for violation of
any ordinance of the Village of Calumet Park; or
      (3)   To come into unsupervised possession of any of the following items:
         (a)   Bowie, switchblade, ballistic knives, or other edged weapons as
defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1 et seq.;
         (b)   Metallic knuckles;
         (c)   Martial arts weaponry;
         (d)   Arrows designed for firing from a bow or crossbow device;
         (e)   Stun gun or laser;
         (f)   Any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or intended
for use in silencing the report of a firearm;
         (g)   Machine gun as defined by ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1 et seq.;
         (h)   Any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container
containing an explosive substance of over one-quarter ounce for like purposes,
such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs, molotov cocktails, pipe-bombs
or artillery projectiles;
         (i)   Firearms, or the ammunition therefor, as defined by ILCS Ch.
430, Act 65, § 1.1;
         (j)   Fireworks, as defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes, ILCS Ch.
425, Act 30, § 3; or
         (k)   Any pneumatic gun, pneumatic pistol, spring gun, spring pistol,
pellet gun, pellet pistol, B-B gun or B-B pistol which either expels a single
globular or other geometric shaped projectile, not exceeding .18 inch in
diameter, constructed of plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials; any
paint ball gun or paint ball pistol which expels a breakable paint ball
containing marking colors; with a force that may be reasonably expected to
cause bodily harm.
   (B)   A minor shall include any person who has not yet reached 18 years of
age.
(Ord. 93-610, passed 9-23-1993)
CURFEW FOR JUVENILES
§ 131.15  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   It shall be and is unlawful for any minor or juvenile of the age of 16 years
or less to be on any street, sidewalk or public place in the Village of Calumet
Park after the hour of 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and 11:00 p.m. on any Friday or
Saturday and until 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Ord. 94-636, passed 9-8-1994; Ord 08-954, passed 4-24-2008)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16  [RESERVED.]
§ 131.17  PARENT; GUARDIAN.
   It shall be and is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having
the custody or status of parent or guardian, to allow or permit any juvenile or
minor of the age of 16 years or under to be upon the streets, sidewalks or
other public places in the Village of Calumet Park after the hours as set forth
in §
131.15 above, unless the minor or juvenile is accompanied by the parent or
guardian, or by some responsible person specifically authorized by the parent
or person having the status of guardian, to have the temporary care and custody
of the juvenile for a particular occasion.
(Ord. 94-636, passed 9-8-1994)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.18  DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to a violation under this subchapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   accompanied by the child's parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother, or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child's parent, guardian, or custodian.
      (3)   participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than 17 years of age to perform;
         (b)   a school recreational activity;
         (c)   a religious event;
         (d)   an emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   an activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois,
or both;
         (f)   an activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adult.
   A citation for violation of this subchapter may be issued by a Police
Officer only if he or she reasonably believes that a violation has occurred and
none of the defenses enumerated in this section apply.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate
provisions of subsection (a) of this section.  It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that a person has violated this section if someone under 17 years
of age of whom such person has custody or control is present upon any public
assembly, building, business, street or highway, or other public place or
public way in violation of subsection (a) of this section, and none of the
defenses enumerated in subsection (b) hereof apply.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of subsection (B) of this section
shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month period; $75 for a
second violation in any 12-month period; and $200 for a third or subsequent
violation in any 12-month period.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.19  VIOLATIONS.
   Any juvenile violators violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be
admonished by the proper police authorities of the village, or at the
discretion of the police authorities a petition designating a minor in need of
supervision may be filed in the Cook County Juvenile Court in the case of
repeated violations.
(Ord. 94-636, passed 9-8-1994)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating §§
131.01 or
131.02 may be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating §
131.02(A)(2) shall, in addition to or instead of the fine provided for in
division (B)(1) above, be required to pay any fine, restitution or reparation
imposed by a court on the minor or minors entrusted to his or her care.
      (3)   It shall be an affirmative defense to §§
131.01 and
131.02 if a minor in possession of a firearm holds a valid hunting license or a
FOID card pursuant to ILCS Ch. 520, Act 5, § 3.1 and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§
83-2 et seq., neither the minor nor the person being charged is otherwise in
violation of any law in relation to the sale or possession of weapons,
including, but not limited to, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1(1), ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 5, § 24-3(a) and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.3, and the minor is engaged in
hunting, supervised target shooting, or the otherwise legal transportation of a
firearm for those purposes.
   (C)   Any parent, guardian or other person having the custody or status of
parent or guardian found guilty of violating §§
131.15 through
131.19 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 93-610, passed 9-23-1993; Ord. 94-636, passed 9-8-1994; Ord. 20-1236,
passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 132:  SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
132.01   Preambles
   
132.02   Interpretation
   
132.03   Definitions
   
132.04   Prohibition of smoking in public places
   
132.05   Reasonable distance
   
132.06   Where smoking is not regulated
   
132.07   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
132.08   Posting of signs
   
132.09   Non-retaliation
   
132.10   Enforcement
   
132.11   Public education
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  PREAMBLES.
   The preambles set forth in the original ordinance are hereby incorporated
into this chapter by reference.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 132.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Nothing in this chapter supersedes any existing elimination of smoking that
is already covered by Fire Code restrictions.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 132.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCADE.  A place of amusement, which contains four or more automatic
amusement devices and is not licensed to serve alcoholic liquor.
   BAR/TAVERN.  An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by guests and patrons on the premises and does not
have an on-site kitchen to prepare food. Food service is limited to providing
snack items or commercially prepared or wrapped foods that require no
preparation. No children under the age of 21 shall be allowed in the
establishment without an adult.
   BUSINESS.  Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
limited liability company or other business entity formed for profit-making
purposes, including without limitation retail establishment where goods or
services are sold as well as professional corporations and other entities where
legal, medical, dental, engineering, architectural or other professional
services are delivered.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER.  Any person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including without limitation a municipal corporation, trust, or non-profit
entity that employs the services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA.  All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed or
semi-enclosed with: solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways),  which
extend from the floor to the ceiling; or solid walls with half wall partitions
and no windows (exclusive of doorways) without limitation to lobbies and
corridors.
   HEALTH-CARE FACILITY.  Any office or institutions providing medical care or
treatment of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including without limitation
hospitals, clinics, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories and
offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists
and all specialists within these professions. The definition shall include all
waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and wards within
health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.  Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer that employees frequent during the course of employment
including, without limitation, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways and vehicles. A
private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as a
childcare, adult day care, health care facility or home-based business of any
kind open to the public.
   PRIVATE FUNCTION.  A gathering of persons for the purpose of deliberation,
education, instruction, entertainment, amusement or dining where membership or
specific invitation is a prerequisite to entry and where the event is not
intended to be open to the public.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including without limitation banks, educational
facilities, government buildings, health care facilities, laundromats, museums,
public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants, bars/taverns,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters and
waiting rooms. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a
childcare, adult daycare, health care facility or home-based business of any
kind open to the public.
   RESTAURANT.  An eating establishment, including, without limitation, coffee
shops, cafeterias, nightclubs, lounges, cabarets, sandwich shops and private
and public school cafeterias that gives or offers for sale food to the public,
guests or employees, as well as kitchens and catering facilities, in which food
is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere.
   RESTAURANT BAR AREA.  An establishment that is primarily devoted to the
serving of alcoholic liquor, but that also serves food provided the bar
receipts exceed 51% of the volume. Children are not allowed in a RESTAURANT BAR
AREA unless accompanied by an adult.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE.  Any retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental and where no one under 18 is permitted.
   SECONDHAND SMOKE or INVOLUNTARY SMOKING.  A mixture of the smoke given off
by the burning ends of a cigarette, pipe, cigar, bidis and kreteks (sidestream
smoke) and the smoke emitted at the mouthpiece and exhaled from the lungs of
smokers (mainstream smoke).
   SERVICE LINE.  Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving services of any kind, whether or not the service involves the
exchange of money.
   SHOPPING MALL.  Any enclosed walkway or hall area that serves to connect
retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING.  Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying a lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, weed, hookah or other light tobacco product in any manner or
in any form.
   SPORTS ARENA OR RECREATIONAL AREA, ENCLOSED OR SEMI-ENCLOSED.  Any sports
pavilion, stadium, gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller
and ice rink, bowling alley and other similar places where members of the
general public assemble either to engage in physical exercise, or participate
in athletic competition or recreational activity to witness sports, cultural,
recreational or other events.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 132.04  PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places and places of
employment within the Village of Calumet Park, including without limitation the
following places:
   (A)   Arcades;
   (B)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries and museums;
   (C)   Bingo facilities;
   (D)   Bowling alleys;
   (E)   Convention facilities;
   (F)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance;
   (G)   Health care facilities and adult day care facilities;
   (H)   Day care centers, nursery schools, elementary schools, high schools,
community colleges, technical training establishments, speciality schools,
colleges and universities;
   (I)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums and enclosed common areas in trailer parks;
   (J)   Polling places;
   (K)   Public transportation under the authority of government agencies,
including without limitation buses, trains, taxicabs, limousines and ticket
boarding and waiting areas of public transit stations;
   (L)   Restaurants;
   (M)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and other enclosed
common use areas;
   (N)   Public elevators and all retail stores where merchandise is displayed
and offered for sale;
   (O)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including,
without limitation, school buildings, under the control of an agency, board
commission, committee or council or a political subdivision of the state, to
the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the county;
   (P)   Service lines;
   (Q)   Shopping malls;
   (R)   Sports arenas or recreational areas, including, without limitation,
enclosed places in outdoor areas;
   (S)   Grocery stores;
   (T)   Public meetings;
   (U)   Gymnasiums;
   (V)   Gaming facilities;
   (W)   Public and private school buildings; and
   (X)   Village government vehicles.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05  REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within 15 feet of any entrance to an enclosed area in
which smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06  WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, provided
smoking is not limited in such areas under the Illinois Clean Indoor Air Act:
   (A)   Private clubs and lodges;
   (B)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care facility, health care facility or a home-based business of any kind
open to the public;
   (C)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms. However, hotels and motels must designate at least
one full floor as non-smoking;
   (D)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain, as the case may be, in
a room where smoking is permitted;
   (E)   Business that exceeds 50,000 square feet may have a ventilated room
designated for smokers only;
   (F)   Bars/taverns; and
   (G)   Restaurant/bars.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 132.07  DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner,
operator, manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility or
outdoor area may declare that entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as
a non-smoking place.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign conforming to
the requirements of this chapter is posted.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (B)   The operator, manager or other person having control of an area where
smoking is prohibited by this chapter shall remove all ashtrays and other
smoking paraphernalia intended for use where smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   Smoking not regulated. Smoking allowed. No one allowed under the age
of 21 unless accompanied by an adult.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09  NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any right afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced to the Calumet Park
Fire, Police or Building Department.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
file a complaint with the Village Clerk or representative of Calumet Park.
   (C)   The Village of Calumet Park shall, while at establishment is
undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   Any owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment covered
under this chapter, shall inform persons violating the provisions set forth
herein.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
chapter, the village or its designee or the appropriate Public Health
Department or any person aggrieved by the failure of an owner, operator,
manager or other person in control of a public place or a place of employment
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, may apply for injunctive relief
to enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 132.11  PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The Village of Calumet Park's designee shall engage in a continuing program
to explain and clarify the purposes and requirements of this chapter to
citizens affected by, and to guide owners, operators and managers in their
compliance with it, within their jurisdictions, local health departments
certified by the Illinois Department of Public Health are authorized to provide
the same continuing programs.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine pursuant to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine pursuant to §
10.99 for the first violation;
      (2)   A fine pursuant to §
10.99 for the second violation within one year of the first violation; and
      (3)   A fine not more than $2,500 for each additional violation within
one year and a 60-day suspension or revocation of any permit or license issued
to the person for the premises on which the violation occurred.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 07-927, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 133:  DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Cannabis; controlled substances
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.  All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
contain on such equipment, products and materials an indication or suggestion
that such items be used or are intended for use, or which contain in the
marketing thereof an indication or suggestion that such items be used or are
intended for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing; analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body,
cannabis as defined in the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, Chapter 56 1/2, §
701, Illinois Revised Statutes (1979), or a controlled substance as defined in
the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 56 1/2, § 1100, Illinois Revised
Statutes (1979). DRUG PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, or intended for use, in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance;
      (2)   Isomerization devices used, or intended for use, in increasing the
potency of an species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment used, or intended for use, in identifying or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis or a controlled
substance;
      (4)   Scales and balances when the scales and balances have inscribed on
them an indication or suggestion that they be used, or are intended for use, in
weighing or measuring cannabis or a controlled substance, or scales and
balances which contain in the marketing thereof an indication or suggestion of
the use;
      (5)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrocloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use, in cutting cannabis or
a controlled substance;
      (6)   Separation gins and sifters used, or intended for use, in removing
twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining cannabis;
      (7)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices when the
items have inscribed on them an indication or suggestion that they be used or
intended for use, in compounding cannabis or a controlled substance or when the
items contain in the marketing thereof an indiction or suggestion of the use;
      (8)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers when the items
have inscribed on them an indication or suggestion that they be used, or are
intended for use, in packaging small quantities of cannabis or a controlled
substance, or when the items contain in the marketing thereof an indication or
suggestion of the use;
      (9)   Containers or other objects when the items have inscribed on them
an indication or suggestion that they be used, or are intended for use, in
storing or concealing cannabis or a controlled substance, or when the items
contain in the marketing thereof an indication or suggestion of the use;
      (10)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, or intended
for use, in parenterally injecting controlled substances into the human body;
      (11)   Objects used, or intended for use, when such items have inscribed
on them an indication or suggestion that they be used, or are intended for use,
in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis, hashish, hashish oil
or cocaine into the human body, or when such items contain in the marketing
thereof an indication or suggestion of such use, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipe;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs; and
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (12)   A court, in determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia,
shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to cannabis or
controlled substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to cannabis or a controlled
substance;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this chapter; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of this ordinance shall not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use as drug paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National and local advertising concerning the use or intended
use of the object; and information contained in sales catalogues of which
supplier has knowledge concerning use of the object;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (l)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (m)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
         (n)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, partnership or association or any
other entity.
(Ord. 82-387, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 133.02  CANNABIS; CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent
to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or deliver or possess
with intent to sell or deliver, any drug paraphernalia, knowing or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body cannabis or a
controlled substance.
(Ord. 82-387, passed 4-22-1982)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person 18 years of age or over who violates §
133.02(B) by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person under 18 years of age
who is at least three years his or her junior, shall, upon conviction, be fined
pursuant to §
10.99.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the lawful authority granted to:
      (1)   Persons who are authorized by the Illinois Cannabis Control Act to
deal with cannabis;
      (2)   Persons registered under federal law to conduct research with
cannabis;
      (3)   Persons authorized by the Illinois Controlled Substance Act to deal
with controlled substances;
      (4)   Authority granted by the Medical Practice Act, the Illinois Nursing
Act, or the Pharmacy Practice Act; and/or
      (5)   Authorized law enforcement personnel while in the course of their
duties.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided for in division (A) above, any person
violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 82-387, passed 4-22-1982; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 134:  GRAFFITI; VANDALISM
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibited acts
   
134.03   Accessibility to graffiti implements
   
134.04   Duty to remove graffiti
   
134.05   Parental responsibility
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER.  Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD-TIPPED MARKER.  Any fell tip indelible marker or similar implement
with a flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width, is greater
than one-fourth of an inch, containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is
not water soluble.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT.  Any tool, device or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or human-made surface.
   GRAFFITI.  Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property, or despite
advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the village.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT.  An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or human-
made surface.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN.  Includes a person appointed guardian or given custody of a
minor by a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act.
   MINOR.  A person who has not attained the age of 18.
   PARENT.  The lawful mother or father of a minor.
(Ord. 04-862, passed 11-23-2004)
§ 134.02  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
possess any graffiti implement while on any school property grounds,
facilities, buildings or structure or in areas immediately adjacent to those
specific locations upon public property or upon private property without the
prior written consent of the owner or occupant of the private property.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the possession of
broad-tipped markers by a minor attending or traveling to or from a school at
which the minor is enrolled if the minor is participating in a class at the
school that formally requires the possession of broad-tipped markers.
   (C)   The burden of proof in any prosecution for violation of this section
shall be upon the minor student to establish the need to possess a broad-tipped
marker.
(Ord. 04-862, passed 11-23-2004)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03  ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS.
   (A)   Furnishings to minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
other than a parent or legal guardian to sell, exchange, give, loan or
otherwise furnish or cause or permit to be exchanged, given, loaned or
otherwise furnished any aerosol paint container, broad-tipped marker or paint
stick to any person under the age of 18 years without the written consent of
the parents or guardian of the person.
   (B)   Display and storage.
      (1)   Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling aerosol paint containers, paint sticks or
broad-tipped markers shall store the containers, sticks or markers in an area
continuously observable through direct visual observation or surveillance
equipment by employees of the retail establishment during the regular course of
business.
      (2)   In the event that a commercial retail establishment is unable to
store the aerosol paint containers, paint sticks or broad-tipped markers in an
area as provided above, the establishment shall store the containers, sticks
and markers in an area not accessible to the public in the regular course of
business without employee assistance.
   (C)   Signage required. Every person who operates a retail commercial
establishment selling graffiti implements shall place a sign in clear public
view at or near the display of the products stating:
      "Graffiti is against the law. Any person using defaces, real or personal
property with paint or any other liquid or device is guilty of a crime
punishable by a fine not less than $100"
(Ord. 04-862, passed 11-23-2004)
§ 134.04  DUTY TO REMOVE GRAFFITI.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupier of real
estate, to remove graffiti on premises owned or occupied by the person within
ten days of receipt of notice from the Village of Calumet Park that the
graffiti exists and should be removed or covered.
   (B)   In the event that the graffiti is not removed within the requisite
time and subsequent to notice by the Village of Calumet Park, the Department of
Public Works of Calumet Park shall cause the graffiti to be covered or removed,
or the structure torn down. The expense of the removal or coverage shall be
recovered from the owner or occupier of the real estate. These charges
constitute a lien against the subject real estate. In addition to the above,
the Village of Calumet Park may also recover reasonable attorney's fees, court
costs and witness fees incurred in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupier of real estate
to apply the same or similar color paint or stain in any attempt to cover
graffiti.
(Ord. 04-862, passed 11-23-2004)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05  PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor who resides with the parent or
legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the acts of the juvenile which
cause injury or damage to a person or property.
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian shall be liable for the fine,
restitution, reparation or attorneys fees and costs imposed by a court upon a
minor for a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-862, passed 11-23-2004)
§ 134.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense. Every day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   In the event that any merchant, or other person holding a retail
business license, in the Village of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois, is
convicted of two or more such offenses, the merchant or business may suffer the
forfeiture of his or her business license and may be permanently enjoined from
doing business in the Village of Calumet Park, Illinois.
(Ord. 04-862, passed 11-23-2004; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 135:  ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN
Section
Blair Holt Assault Weapons Ban
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Assault weapons and large capacity magazines; sale prohibited;
exceptions
   
135.03   Destruction of weapons confiscated
Safe Storage of Firearms and/or Accessories
   
135.15   Recovery of firearms and/or accessories for safe storage
   
135.16   Requirements for release of firearms to lawful owner
   
135.17   Safe storage fees
   
135.18   Disposition of firearms and/or accessories
BLAIR HOLT ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN
§ 135.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSAULT WEAPON.
      (1)   A semiautomatic rifle that has the capacity to accept a large
capacity magazine detachable or otherwise and one or more of the following:
         (a)   Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
         (b)   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can
be held by the non-trigger hand;
         (c)   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
         (d)   A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or completely
encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with the non-
trigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses the
barrel; or
         (e)   A muzzle brake or muzzle compensator.
      (2)   A semiautomatic pistol or any semi-automatic rifle that has a fixed
magazine, that has the capacity to accept more than ten rounds of ammunition;
      (3)   A semiautomatic pistol that has the capacity to accept a detachable
magazine and has one or more of the following:
         (a)   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can
be held by the non-trigger hand;
         (b)   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
         (c)   A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or completely
encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with the non-
trigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses the
barrel;
         (d)   A muzzle brake or muzzle compensator; or
         (e)   The capacity to accept a detachable magazine at some location
outside of the pistol grip.
      (4)   A semiautomatic shotgun that has one or more of the following:
         (a)   Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
         (b)   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can
be held by the non-trigger hand;
         (c)   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
         (d)   A fixed magazine capacity in excess of five rounds; or
         (e)   An ability to accept a detachable magazine.
      (5)   Any shotgun with a revolving cylinder.
      (6)   Conversion kit, part or combination of parts, from which an assault
weapon can be assembled if those parts are in the possession or under the
control of the same person;
      (7)   Shall include, but not be limited to, the assault weapons models
identified as follows:
         (a)   The following rifles or copies or duplicates thereof:
            1.   AK, AKM, AKS, AK-47, AK-74, ARM, MAK90, Misr, NHM 90, NHM 91,
SA 85, SA 93, VEPR;
            2.   AR-10;
            3.   AR-15, Bushmaster XM15, Armalite M15, or Olympic Arms PCR;
            4.   AR70;
            5.   Calico Liberty;
            6.   Dragunov SVD Sniper Rifle or Dragunov SVU;
            7.   Fabrique National FN/FAL, FN/LAR, or FNC;
            8.   Hi-Point Carbine;
            9.   HK-91, HK-93, HK-94, or HK-PSG-1;
            10.   Kel-Tec Sub Rifle;
            11.   Saiga;
            12.   SAR-8, SAR-4800;
            13.   SKS with detachable magazine;
            14.   SLG95;
            15.   SLR 95 or 96;
            16.   SteyrAUG;
            17.   Sturm, Ruger Mini-14;
            18.   Tavor;
            19.   Thompson 1927, Thompson Ml, or Thompson 1927 Commando; or
            20.   Uzi, Galil and Uzi Sporter, Galil Sporter, or Galil Sniper
Rifle (Galatz).
         (b)   The following pistols or copies or duplicates thereof:
            1.   Calico M-l 10;
            2.   MAC-10, MAC-U, or MPA3;
            3.   Olympic Arms OA;
            4.   TEC-9, TEC-DC9, TEC-22 Scorpion, or AB-10; or
            5.   Uzi.
         (c)   The following shotguns or copies or duplicates thereof:
            1.    Armscor30BG;
            2.   SPAS 12 or LAW 12;
            3.   Striker 12; or
            4.    Streetsweeper.
   ASSAULT WEAPON does not include any firearm that has been made permanently
inoperable, or satisfies the definition of "antique firearm," stated in this
section, or weapons designed for Olympic target shooting events.
   DETACHABLE MAGAZINE. Any ammunition feeding device, the function of which is
to deliver one or more ammunition cartridges into the firing chamber, which can
be removed from the firearm without the use of any tool, including a bullet or
ammunition cartridge.
   LARGE CAPACITY MAGAZINE. Any ammunition feeding device with the capacity to
accept more than ten rounds, but shall not be construed to include the
following:
      (1)   A feeding device that has been permanently altered so that it
cannot accommodate more than ten rounds.
      (2)   A 22 caliber tube ammunition feeding device.
      (3)   A tubular magazine that is contained in a lever-action firearm.
   MUZZLE BRAKE. A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that utilizes
escaping gas to reduce recoil.
   MUZZLE COMPENSATOR. A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that
utilizes escaping gas to control muzzle movement.
(Ord. 13-1080, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 135.02  ASSAULT WEAPONS AND LARGE CAPACITY MAGAZINES; SALE PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, sell, offer or display for sale, give,
lend, transfer ownership of, acquire or possess any assault weapon or large
capacity magazine. This subsection shall not apply to:
      (1)   The sale or transfer to, or possession by any officer, agent, or
employee of Cook County or any other municipality or state or of the United
States, members of the armed forces of the United States; or the organized
militia of this or any other state; or peace officers to the extent that any
such person named in this subsection is otherwise authorized to acquire or
possess an assault weapon and/or large capacity magazine and does so while
acting within the scope of his or her duties;
      (2)   Transportation of assault weapons or large capacity magazine if
such weapons are broken down and in a nonfunctioning state and are not
immediately accessible to any person.
   (B)   Any assault weapon or large capacity magazine possessed, sold or
transferred in violation of division (A) of this section is hereby declared to
be contraband and shall be seized and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of §
135.03.
   (C)   Any person found in violation of this section shall be sentenced to
not more than six months imprisonment or fined not less than $500 and not more
than $1,000, or both.
   (D)   Any person who, prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this section, was legally in possession of an assault weapon or large
capacity magazine prohibited by this section shall have 90 days from the
effective date of the ordinance to do any of the following without being
subject to prosecution hereunder:
      (1)   To remove the assault weapon or large capacity magazine from within
the limits of the County of Cook;
      (2)   To modify the assault weapon or large capacity magazine either to
render it permanently inoperable or to permanently make it a device no longer
defined as an assault weapon or large capacity magazine; or
      (3)   To surrender the assault weapon or large capacity magazine to the
Sheriff or his or her designee for disposal as provided below.
(Ord. 13-1080, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 135.03  DESTRUCTION OF WEAPONS CONFISCATED.
   (A)   Whenever any firearm or large capacity magazine is surrendered or
confiscated pursuant to the terms of this chapter, the Sheriff shall ascertain
whether such firearm is needed as evidence in any matter.
   (B)   If such firearm or large capacity magazine is not required for
evidence it shall be destroyed at the direction of the Sheriff. A record of the
date and method of destruction an inventory or the firearm or large capacity
magazine so destroyed shall be maintained.
(Ord. 13-1080, passed 6-27-2013)
SAFE STORAGE OF FIREARMS AND/OR ACCESSORIES
§ 135.15 RECOVERY OF FIREARMS AND/OR ACCESSORIES FOR SAFE STORAGE.
   (A)   The Village of Calumet Park Police Department shall recover firearms
and/or accessories that are a result of Court ordered safe-keeping, voluntary
turn-in by the owner of the firearm, non-criminal in nature towed vehicle,
repossessions and impoundments and other such instances as determined to be
necessary and proper to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
of the Village of Calumet Park.
   (B)   The Calumet Park Police Department shall safely store the recovered
firearms and/or accessories until the lawful owner of the firearm(s) and/or
accessories claims such firearm(s) and/or accessories. The firearm(s) and/or
accessories will be stored in a manner that prevents access by unauthorized
persons.
(Ord. 20-1229, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 135.16  REQUIREMENTS FOR RELEASE OF FIREARMS TO LAWFUL OWNER.
   If the lawful owner of the firearm claims the weapon the following
requirements must be adhered to before releasing the firearm:
   (A)   Proof of ownership of the firearm. The owner must present one of the
following:
      (1)   Bill of sale, or
      (2)   An Illinois Firearm transfer form with the corresponding
identification number of such transfer detailing the firearm transfer or any
equivalent form issued by another state, or
      (3)   A valid court order releasing the firearm and/or accessories, or
      (4)   In instances of owner's death, family transfers, or any other
ownership issues where ownership is not being contested, the firearm and/or
accessories can be released pursuant to the Calumet Park Police Department
Departmental policies and procedures.
   (B)   Valid firearms owners identification card.
      (1)   Illinois resident owners MUST present their Illinois Firearm Owners
Identification card ("FOID") or a valid Illinois Conceal Carry license pursuant
to the Firearm Owners Identification Card Act ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, § 1 et seq.
and the Illinois Firearm Concealed Carry Act, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 66, § 1 et seq.
      (2)   Non-resident owners MUST present proof of non-residency and a FOID
card or a valid conceal carry license equivalent issued by another state.
      (3)   Owners who claim exempt status must submit proof of the exempt
status pursuant to the provisions of the Firearm Owners Identification Card
Act.
   (C)    Once the owner has met the above requirements, the weapon must be
lawfully secured by the owner. The owner shall provide the Police Department
with the intended method of transportation of the firearm before the firearm is
released to him/her.
      (1)   If the method is not in accordance with the Unlawful Use of Weapons
Act ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1 et seq., and the Illinois Firearm Concealed
Carry Act, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 66, § l et seq, the firearm shall not be released.
      (2)   If such owner has a valid conceal carry permit, the owner shall not
be permitted to possess such weapon on their person within the village hall or
police facility pursuant to ILCS Ch. 430, Act 66, § 65(a)(5). Such weapon must
be disabled so that it is in a non-functioning state during that time.
      (3)   The Police Department may provide the owner with a container for
transport for a fee.
(Ord. 20-1229, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 135.17  SAFE STORAGE FEES.
   The Calumet Park Police Department shall charge the owner of the firearm
$100 for each weapon and $10 per 50 rounds of ammunition over 100 rounds as
safe storage fees. These fees are specifically designated for use by the
Calumet Park Police Department and shall be deposited into the Calumet Park
Police Department Evidence Fund. Court ordered mandates for safe keeping of
firearms and ammunition are specifically excluded from this section.
(Ord. 20-1229, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 135.18  DISPOSITION OF FIREARMS AND/OR ACCESSORIES.
   The Calumet Park Police Department will dispose of the firearm and/or
accessories where the lawful owner of the firearm and/or accessories held in
police custody fails to claim them after six months from the date the weapons
and/or accessories were initially placed into storage. The disposal shall be
pursuant to the Calumet Park Police Department Departmental policies and
procedures.
(Ord. 20-1229, passed 1-9-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   SIGNS AND THE LIKE
         
151.   FLOOD PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
         
152.   CODES ADOPTED
         
153.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
         
154.   LANDLORD AND TENANT; DISPUTES
         
155.   DWELLING PROVISIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS
         
156.   SPILLER PAYS ORDINANCE
         
157.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
158.   ZONING
         
159.   FIRE INSPECTIONS OF RENTAL UNITS
CHAPTER 150:  SIGNS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Permit requirements
   
150.04   Sign contractor's license
   
150.05   Indemnifications
   
150.06   Annual license
   
150.07   Inspection and maintenance
   
150.08   Unsafe or unlawful signs
   
150.09   Abandoned signs
   
150.10   Obstruction to exits
   
150.11   Obstruction to ventilation
   
150.12   Clearance from high voltage power lines
   
150.13   Sign construction
   
150.14   Exemptions
   
150.15   Residential District sign regulations
   
150.16   Commercial District sign regulations
   
150.17   Industrial District sign regulations
   
150.18   Height of signs
   
150.19   Non-conforming signs
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Calumet Park Sign Code" and may be so
cited.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN.  A sign which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any
person, advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product or activity
conducted or product available on the premises where such sign is displayed.
   GROUND SIGN.  A sign erected on a free-standing frame, mast or pole and not
attached to any building.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A sign which is limited to the name, address and
number of a building, institution or person and to the activity carried on in
the building or institution, or the occupation of the person.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN.  Any sign which emanates light either by means of exposed
tubing or lamps on its surface, or by means of illumination transmitted through
the sign faces, or which reflects light from a source intentionally directed on
it.
   NON-ACCESSORY SIGN or OFF-SITE SIGN.  A sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service or entertainment not related to the premises at
which the sign is located, or to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment which is conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than on the
premises of which the sign is located.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.  Any sign, consisting of any letter, figure,
character, mark, point, plane, marquee sign, design, poster, pictorial,
picture, stroke, stripe, line, trademarks, reading  matter or illuminating
device, constructed, attached, erected, fastened or manufactured in any manner
whatsoever so that the sign shall be used for the attraction of the public to
any place, subject, person, public performance, article, machine or merchandise
whatsoever and displayed in any manner whatsoever out of doors for recognized
advertising purposes.
   PROJECTING SIGN.  An outdoor advertising sign which is affixed to any
building wall or structure and extends beyond the building wall, structure,
building line or property line more than 15 inches.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 14-1097, passed 2-27-2014)
§ 150.03  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No sign shall be erected, altered or relocated without a permit
issued by the Building Department except as otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   Where electrical permits are required, they shall be obtained at
the same time as the sign permit.
      (3)   Application for a permit shall be made upon forms provided by the
Building Department and shall include the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   Location of the building, structure or parcel of property to
which, or upon which, the sign is to be attached or erected;
         (c)   Position of sign in relation to nearby buildings, structures,
street grade, easements and overhead utilities;
         (d)   Two copies of plans and specifications showing method of
construction, location and support, sealed by a registered architect or
structural engineer;
         (e)   Sketch showing sign faces, exposed surfaces and proposed message
thereof accurately represented in scale as to size, proportion and color;
         (f)   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting the
sign;
         (g)   Written consent of the owners of the building, structure or land
on or to which the sign is to be erected; and
         (h)   Such other information as the Building Inspector shall require
to show full compliance with this and all other laws and ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector, who shall be the
enforcing officer, upon the filing of an application for a permit, to examine
the plans and specifications, the premises upon which it is proposed to erect
the sign or other advertising structure, and other date; and if it shall appear
that the proposed structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this
chapter, and all other ordinances of the village, he or she shall then issue
the permit. If the work authorized under the permit has not been completed
within six months after date of issuance, the permit shall become null and
void.
   (C)   Every applicant, before being granted a permit hereunder, shall pay
the following permit fee for each sign to the Village Clerk:
 
Costs of Construction        Permit Fee
$0 - $499                    $50
$500 - $4,999                $100
Any project exceeding $5,000 3% of the cost of said project
 
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 14-1097, passed 2-27-2014)
§ 150.04  SIGN CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE.
   No person shall perform any work or service for any person or for any
government entity for compensation, in or in connection with the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, improvement,
maintenance, conversion or manufacture of any sign in the village, or any work
or service in connection with causing any such work to be done unless the
person shall have obtained a sign contractor's license from the Village Clerk
and paid the license fee provided for the village, or shall be represented by a
duly licensed agent or subcontractor.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.05  INDEMNIFICATIONS.
   As a condition to the issuance of a license as required in §
150.04 above herein, all persons engaged in the business of installing or
maintaining signs which involves, in whole or part, the erection, alteration,
relocation, maintenance of a sign or other sign work in or over or immediately
adjacent to a public right-of-way or public property so that a portion of the
public right-of-way or public property is used or encroached on by the sign
installer, shall agree to hold harmless and indemnify the village, its
officers, agents and employees, from any and all claims of negligence resulting
from the erection, alteration, relocation or maintenance of the signs.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.06  ANNUAL LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to any other permit or license required hereunder, there
is hereby imposed an annual license for all outdoor advertising signs.
   (B)   This license shall be issued for the period commencing May 1 and
ending April 30 of each year.
   (C)   The fees for the license shall be as follows:
 
Wall Sign; Fence Sign $30
Projecting Sign       $50
Ground Sign           $75
Miscellaneous
   Portable Signs  $60
   Ad Benches      $25
 
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 14-1097, passed 2-27-2014)
§ 150.07  INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every sign in the village, including those signs for which no permits
or permit fees are required, shall be maintained in good structural condition
at all times.
   (B)   All signs, including those exempted, shall be kept neatly painted to
prevent rust, rot or deterioration.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall inspect all signs to determine whether or
not they meet the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.08  UNSAFE OR UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   (A)   If the Building Inspector shall find that any sign is unsafe, insecure
or a menace to the public, or has been constructed, erected or maintained in
violation of the provisions of this section, he or she shall give written
notice to the permittee thereof.
   (B)   If the permittee fails to remove or alter the structure so as to
comply with the standards herein set forth within ten days after the notice,
then the Mayor and Board of Trustees, on the recommendation of the Building
Inspector, may declare the sign to be a public nuisance and direct the removal
of the sign as required by law.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.09  ABANDONED SIGNS.
   Any sign which no longer identifies a bona fide business conducted, or a
product sold, on the premises where the sign is located, shall be taken down
and removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the
building, structure or property upon which the sign may be found within ten
days after written notification from the Building Department; and upon failure
to comply with such notice within the time specified in the order, then the
Mayor and the Board of Trustees, on the recommendation of the Building
Inspector, may declare the sign to be a public nuisance and direct the removal
of the sign as required by law.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.10  OBSTRUCTION TO EXITS.
   No sign shall be erected, constructed or maintained so as to obstruct any
fire escape, required exit, window or door opening used as a means of egress.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.11  OBSTRUCTION TO VENTILATION.
   No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner which will interfere
with any opening required for ventilation, except that such signs may be
erected in front of and may cover transom windows when not in violation of the
provision of the Building or Fire Prevention Codes.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.12  CLEARANCE FROM HIGH VOLTAGE POWER LINES.
   Signs shall be located in such a way that they maintain horizontal and
vertical clearance of all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with
National Electrical Code specifications, depending on voltages concerned.
However, in no case shall a sign be installed closer than 24 inches
horizontally or vertically from any conductor or public utility guy wire.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.13  SIGN CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Free-standing signs; materials.
      (1)   All free-standing sign structures or poles shall be self-supporting
structures erected on and permanently attached to concrete foundations.
      (2)   The structures or poles shall be fabricated only from painted steel
or such other materials as may be approved by the building code of the village.
   (B)   Electric signs.
      (1)   All electric signs shall be approved and labeled as conforming to
the standards of the United States Bureau of Standards, the Underwriters'
Laboratories, Inc., the Canadian Standards Association (CSA) or other similar
institutions of recognized standing.
      (2)   The full number of illuminating elements thereof shall be kept in
satisfactory working condition or immediately replaced or repaired. Signs that
are only partially illuminated shall meet all electrical requirements for that
portion directly illuminated.
      (3)   All electric signs shall have a disconnecting switch located in
accordance with the provisions of the electrical code.
   (C)   Glass.
      (1)   When glass is used for sign letters or transparent panels, it shall
be at least double strength thickness for sign areas up to and including 300
square inches.
      (2)   When glass is used for sign letters or transparent panels for sign
areas in excess of 300 square inches at least one-quarter inch wire glass shall
be used and the maximum span between supports shall be four feet.
   (D)   Strength of parapet wall. A parapet wall must be designed for and have
sufficient strength to support any sign which is attached thereto.
   (E)   Supports and braces.
      (1)   Metal supports or braces shall be adequate for wind loadings.
      (2)   Wire or cable supports shall have a safety factor of four.
      (3)   All metal, wire cable supports and braces, and all bolts used to
attach sign to bracket or brackets and signs to the supporting building or
structure shall be of galvanized or of an equivalent material.
      (4)   There shall be no visible angle irons, or unsightly supports. All
such sign supports shall be an integral part of the sign design.
      (5)   There shall be a pole cover on all free-standing signs unless the
pole is an integral part of the sign.
   (F)   Wind loads.
      (1)   All signs, except those attached flat against the wall of a
building shall be constructed to withstand wind loads as follows:
         (a)   For solid signs, 30 pounds per square foot on one face of the
sign; and
         (b)   For skeleton signs, 36 pounds per square foot of the total face
area of the letters and other sign surfaces, or ten pounds per square foot of
the gross area of the sign as determined by the overall dimensions of the sign,
whichever is greater.
      (2)   The wind loadings quoted above are normal averages and must be
adjusted for areas subject to unusually high velocity winds, for signs of
extraordinary height or for certain wind tunneling effects created by large
buildings.
   (G)   Projecting signs.
      (1)   Signs shall in no case project from a building or structure to any
point within two feet of a line drawn perpendicularly upward from the curb
line. No projecting sign shall at the lowest point be less than nine feet above
the sidewalk or the ground level. All projecting signs for which a permit is
required shall be constructed entirely of fire-resistive materials approved by
the Building Inspector for this purpose.
      (2)   Projecting signs shall be securely attached to a building or
structure by metal bolts, anchors, supports, chains, wire ropes or steel rods.
No staples or nails shall be used to secure any projecting sign to any building
or structure.
      (3)   The dead load of projecting signs, not parallel to the building or
structure, and the load due to wind pressure shall be supported by structural
shapes, chains, wire ropes or steel guy rods. These supports shall be erected
and maintained preferable at an angle of 45 degrees or more with the face of
the sign in an approximately horizontal plane to resist wind pressure. The
lateral supports shall be spaced not more than eight feet apart and shall be
secured to a bolt or expansion screw capable of developing the strength of the
supporting chain, wire rope or steel guy rod. The expansive device and details
of the anchorage shall be subject to the approval of the Building Inspector.
Turn adjustment shall be placed in all chains, wire ropes or steel guy rods
supporting or bracing projecting signs.
      (4)   Chains, wire ropes or steel guy rods used to support the dead or
wind load of projecting signs maybe fastened to solid masonry walls with
expansion bolts or other devices approved by the Building Inspector, but no
support shall be attached to an unbraced parapet wall. Where the supports must
be fastened to walls made of wood, the supporting device must be fastened
securely in a manner approved by the Building Inspector.
      (5)   All metal supports and braces for projecting signs shall be
galvanized or of corrosive-resistant material or painted at least once
annually.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 14-1097, passed 2-27-2014)
§ 150.14  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of signs are exempted from all the provisions of this
chapter, except for construction safety regulations.
   (A)   "For Sale", "For Rent" and "Sold" signs, not exceeding four square
feet in area, which advertise the sale or rental of real estate. These signs
may remain in place during the time the property is for sale or rent, and for a
period of not to exceed one week after the consummation of the sale or rental
of the property.
   (B)   Professional name places not exceeding two square feet in area.
   (C)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions, when
the same are located on the premises of the institutions and are not over 15
square feet in area.
   (D)   Occupational signs denoting only the name and profession of an
occupant in a commercial building or public institutional building and not
exceeding two square feet in area.
   (E)   Memorial sign or tablet, name of building and date of erection, when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
noncombustible materials.
   (F)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, or railroad crossing,
danger or such temporary emergency or non-advertising signs as may be approved
by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   (G)   Address signs not over one square foot in area.
   (H)   Signs identifying the architects, engineers, contractors and other
individuals or firms involved with the construction, but not including the
advertisement of any product, and announcing the character of the building
enterprise, or the purpose for which the building is intended, up to a maximum
area of 16 square feet for each firm. The signs shall be confined to the site
of the construction, and shall be removed within 14 days after the beginning of
the intended use of the project.
   (I)   Political campaign signs, announcing the candidates seeking public
political office and other data pertinent thereto, not exceeding 32 square feet
in area for each premise. These signs shall be confined within private property
with the permission of the property owner and removed within seven days after
the election day.
   (J)   Street banners advertising a public entertainment or event, if
specially approved by the Village Board, and then only for locations designated
by the Village Board, during the 14 days before and three days after the event.
   (K)   Show windows signs in a window display of merchandise, when
incorporated with such a display. They need not be related in content with the
display.
   (L)   Pennants or streamers specially approved by the Village Board after
showing that the pennants or streamers are an integral part of a campaign or
program for the promotion of a specific product or event, and then only for the
location and period of time designated by the Village Board.
   (M)   Temporary signs not to exceed 100 square feet for each face. Signs
shall be non-illuminated. Each permit shall specify the location of the sign.
Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than six months and may be
renewed at the discretion of the Building Department.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.15  RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   In all residential districts, accessory signs are permitted subject to the
following regulations.
   (A)   For residential buildings other than multiple dwellings, one
nonilluminated nameplate, with an area not exceeding one square foot and
indicating only the name or address of the occupant or a permitted occupation,
is allowed for each dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   (B)   For multiple dwellings, including apartment hotels, and for permitted
non-residential buildings or other structures, one identification sign with an
area not exceeding eight square feet and indicating only the name or address of
the building or the management thereof is permitted. The height of letters on
any side of awnings or canopies shall not exceed one foot.
   (C)   For community facility uses, a bulletin board with an area not
exceeding 16 square feet is permitted.
   (D)   Temporary "for sale" or "for rent" signs, with an area not exceeding
four square feet on any individual zoning lot, or with an area not exceeding 20
square feet for any group of zoning lots in single ownership, are permitted. If
located on vacant land, the signs shall not be within 15 feet of the street
line nor within six feet of any other lot line.
   (E)   One sign with an area not exceeding two square feet and a height no
greater than seven feet above ground, designating each entrance or exit of an
off-street parking area is permitted.
   (F)   No sign shall extend more than 20 feet above the level of the ground.
   (G)   Exclusive of signs for parking areas as permitted by division (E)
above, not more than one sign is permitted for each use building or dwelling
unit. However, on a corner lot, two signs, one facing each street, shall be
permitted for each use, building or dwelling unit.
   (H)   Advertising signs are not permitted in any residential district.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.16  COMMERCIAL DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   In Commercial Zoning Districts accessory signs only are permitted, subject
to the following regulations.
   (A)   In an C-1 District, flashing signs are not permitted, but illuminated
nonflashing signs with areas not exceeding 50 square feet are permitted.
   (B)   In other Commercial Districts, illuminated or flashing signs are
permitted.
   (C)   Two signs for each occupancy, one free standing and one projecting or
wall or facia sign, are permitted in the C-2 Zoning Districts.
   (D)   One ground sign is permitted for each premises having frontage on a
public right-of-way.
   (E)   Where a parcel has in excess of 300 feet of frontage, one additional
free-standing sign may be erected for each additional 300 feet of street
frontage in excess of the first 300 feet of street frontage abutting the
developed portion of the parcel.
   (F)   Where a premises fronts one more than one public right-of-way or
street, excluding alleys and service ways, the regulations of this section
shall apply to each frontage.
   (G)   No non-accessory or off-site advertising signs of any kind are
permitted in any Commercial Zoning District.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.17  INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   Off-site or non-accessory advertising signs may be erected on ground, wall
or roof locations in Industrial zones only, subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   Off-premise signs on the same street facing the same traffic flow
shall not be placed closer together than 300 feet.
   (B)   Off-site signs can be double-faced and each side shall be considered
as facing traffic flowing in the opposite direction.
   (C)   At the intersection of two streets, double- or single-faced signs at
right angles to and, therefore, facing traffic on one intersecting street may
be situated closer than 300 feet to a similarly positioned sign across the
street at right angles to and, therefore, facing traffic on the other
intersecting street.
   (D)   Structures for off-premise signs shall be vertical (cantilever)
construction and where the back is visible it shall be suitable painted or
otherwise covered to present a neat and clean appearance.
   (E)   The area around off-premise sign structures shall be kept clean and
all scrub brush or tall grass shall be cleared away to a distance of at least
five feet to the rear and sides of structure as well as to the front property
line, and if on a corner site to both property lines.
   (F)   No part of any off-premise sign structure shall be closer to any
street line than the front line of the nearest building within 100 feet.
   (G)   When an off-premise sign is erected between two buildings that are
within 100 feet of the structure, no part of the structure shall be erected
closer to any street line than a line drawn from the nearest front corner of
the two buildings.
   (H)   Off-premise signs shall not exceed 1,200 square feet in area for each
face.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18  HEIGHT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   In the respective Commercial and Industrial Districts as indicated, no
permitted ground sign shall extend above grade at a height greater than that
shown in the following table.
 
District   Maximum Height (In Feet)
C-1        20
C-2        35
Industrial 75
 
   (B)   No sign attached to a building shall extend above grade at a height
greater than the applicable maximum building height prescribed in the Zoning
Ordinance of the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.19  NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter and not
conforming to its provisions shall be regarded as nonconforming signs which may
be continued for a period of time not exceeding the remaining, or
undepreciated, useful life of the sign, based on the formula used in the
depreciation schedule in the income tax returns of the owner of the sign, or
any other reasonable formula which will provide an adequate period for the
depreciation of the sign, not exceeding ten years beyond the effective date of
these regulations.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs which are structurally altered, relocated, or
replaced shall comply immediately with all provisions of this section.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day a violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 87-477, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 20-1236, passed  5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   How to use this chapter
   
151.04   Duties of the Village Engineer
   
151.05   Base flood elevation
   
151.06   Occupation and use of flood fringe areas
   
151.07   Occupation and use of designated floodways
   
151.08   Occupation and use of SFHA areas where floodways are not identified
   
151.09   Permitting requirements applicable to all floodplain areas
   
151.10   Other development requirements
   
151.11   Variances
   
151.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Effective date
   
151.14   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
Village of Calumet Park by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2 11-
30-8, and 11-31-2. The purpose of this chapter is to maintain this village's
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following specific
purposes:
      (1)   To meet the requirements of  ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, § 18(g) Rivers,
Lakes and Streams Act;
      (2)   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or creating unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      (3)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (4)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (5)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations; and
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the Village of Calumet Park by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program;
      (7)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. pts. 59 to 79, as amended.
      (8)   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources; and
      (9)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts,
improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian
habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and
enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A non-habitable structure which is on the same parcel
of property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   ACT.  An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams
of the State of Illinois, ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.
   APPLICANT.  Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
   APPROPRIATE USE.  Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed
are as specified in §
151.07(C).
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year frequency flood
event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location is as defined in
§
151.05 below.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT.  That portion of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings, and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more
than 180 days per year.
   CHANNEL.  Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or man-made drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION.  Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks, CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, rip-rapping {'{'}or other armoring), widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation
from the bottom or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include the clearing of
dead or dying vegetation, debris, or trash from the channel. Channelization is
a severe form of CHANNEL MODIFICATION involving a significant change in the
channel cross-section and typically involving relocation of the existing
channel (e.g. straightening).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE.  An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off-site floodwater elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE.  Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this part, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as-built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR).  A letter which indicates that
FEMA will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map, once the as-built plans are submitted and approved.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE.  A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). Examples
of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection is recommended include: sewage
treatment plants, water treatment plants, and pumping stations.
   DAM.  All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. DAMS may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts or impoundment structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY.  The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that
portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse,  generally
depicted on the FEMA FIRM map, which is needed to store and convey the existing
100-year frequency flood discharge with no more than a one-tenth-foot increase
in stage due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a 10%
increase in velocities.
      (1)   The floodways are designated for on the countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map of Cook prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2000. When two floodway
maps exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway limit shall prevail.
      (2)   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of Calumet Park
that may be annexed into the Village of Calumet Park are designated for Little
Calumet River on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by FEMA and
dated August 19, 2000.
      (3)   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the
designated floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map
and located on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where
interpretation is needed to determine the exact location of the designated
floodway boundary, IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building
or any addition to a building.
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than 180 days. If the travel trailer or recreational vehicle is
on site for more than 180 days, it must be fully licensed and ready for highway
use.
         (c)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges, or similar projects.
         (d)   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
         (e)   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
         (f)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or
culverts; channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving,
or other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of
materials; deposit of solid or liquid waste.
         (g)   Any other activity of man that might change the direction,
height, or velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal.
         (h)   Substantial improvement of an existing building.
      (2)   Development does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities such as re-roofing or re-surfacing of roads when there
is no increase in elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATES.  A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
the elevation to which a building has been elevated.
   EROSION.  The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or
wave action.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.  Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) including state, federal or local units of
government.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or
SUBDIVISION for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 C.F.R.
pts. 59 to 79, as amended.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY.  A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE.  That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway. See commentary on DESIGNATED FLOODWAY.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM).  A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE).  The elevation of the base flood or 100-
year frequency floods plus one foot of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN.  That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached Special Flood Hazard Areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA).
      (1)   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
Village of Calumet Park that are subject to inundation by the base flood or
100-year frequency flood. The SFHAs of the Village of Calumet Park are
generally identified as such on panel numbers) (643, 644, 645) of the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the Village of Calumet Park prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 19, 2000.
      (2)   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of Calumet Park or that
may be annexed into the Village of Calumet Park are generally identified as
such on panel numbers(s) (643, 644, 645) of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate
Map prepared for Cook County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency) and
dated August 19, 2008.
   FLOODPROOFING.  Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOODWAY.  See DESIGNATED FLOODWAY.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminary determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminary determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminary
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency;
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   HYDROLOGIC and HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS.  Engineering analysis which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
   IDNR/OWR.  Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  Official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure is not in a 100-year floodplain; amends the FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, floodplains or floodways as shown on an effective
FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without
a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than 180 consecutive days. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION.  MITIGATION includes those measures necessary to minimize the
negative effects which floodplain development activities might have on the
public health, safety and welfare. Examples of MITIGATION include: excavation
of compensatory storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel
restoration. MITIGATION may also include those activities taken to reduce a
structure's susceptibility to flooding.
   NATURAL.  When used in reference to channels means those channels formed by
the existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross-section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regarding and revegetation.
   NAVD 88.  National American Vertical Datum of 1988. NAVD 88 supersedes the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  New construction means structures for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or
SUBDIVISION for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1,1990.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM).  The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
   PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS.  All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the State of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
   PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT.  A flood control project which will be
operated and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing
buildings and structures, including a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the
existing and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition
shall preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or
in part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGIONAL PERMITS.  REGIONAL PERMITS are offered for pre-approved projects
which are considered minor projects that are permissible per IDNR/OWR Part 3708
rules for Northeastern Illinois regulatory floodways. A complete listing of the
terms and conditions for specific project types can be obtained from the IDNR/
OWR website.
   REGISTERED or LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  An engineer registered in the
State of Illinois, under the Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act.
(ILCS Ch. 225, Act 325, §§ 1 et seq.)
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR.  A land surveyor registered in the State of
Illinois, under the Illinois Land Surveyors Act. (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 330, §§ 1
et seq.)
   REPAIR, REMODELING or MAINTENANCE.  Development activities which do not
result in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes
to the dimensions of a structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY.  A RETENTION FACILITY stores storm water
runoff without a gravity release. A DETENTION FACILITY provides for storage of
storm water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
   RIVERINE SFHA.  Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch, on-stream lake system or any other identified
channel. This term does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes,
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   RUNOFF.  The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   SEDIMENTATION.  The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other
materials either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  See FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
   STATEWIDE PERMITS.  Statewide permits are offered for pre-approved projects
that are considered minor projects which are permissible per the IDNR/OWR Part
3700 rules. A complete listing of the statewide permits and permit requirements
can be obtained from the IDNR/OWR website.
   STRUCTURE.  See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage "subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter" equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes repetitive
loss buildings. (See REPETITIVE LOSS.)
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure taking place "subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter" in which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started.
      (1)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
         (b)   Any alteration of an historic structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places,
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure.
   TRANSITION SECTION.  Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows
from a narrow cross-section to a wide cross-section or vice versa.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.03  HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the
duties listed in §
151.04.
   (B)   To fulfill those duties, the Village Engineer should first use the
criteria listed in §
151.05, base flood elevations, to determine whether the development site is
located within a floodplain.
   (C)   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a
floodplain, the must determine whether the development site is within a flood
fringe, a designated floodway, or within a SFHA or floodplain for which no
floodway has been identified.
      (1)   If the site is within a flood fringe, the Village Engineer shall
require that the minimum requirements of §
151.06 be met.
      (2)   If the site is within a floodway, the Village Engineer shall
require that the minimum requirements of §
151.07 be met.
      (3)   If the site is located within a SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the Village Engineer shall
require that the minimum requirements of §
151.08 be met.
   (D)   In addition, the general requirements of §
151.09 shall be met for all developments meeting the requirements of §§
151.06,
151.07, and
151.08.
   (E)   The Village Engineer shall assure that all subdivision proposals shall
meet the requirements of §
151.10.
   (F)   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the Village Engineer
shall review the requirements of §
151.11 to make sure they are met. In addition, the Village Engineer shall
complete all notification requirements.
   (G)   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the Village Engineer may take any and all actions as outlined in
§
151.99.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.04  DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   (A)   Determining the floodplain designation.
      (1)   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
      (2)   If they are in a SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
      (3)   Check whether the development is potentially within an extended
SFHA (with a drainage area less than one square mile), indicating that the
development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance, or
inundation which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections
of this chapter.
   (B)   Professional engineer review.
      (1)   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a licensed professional engineer
under the employment or contract of the Village of Calumet Park for review to
ensure that the development meets §§
151.07 or
151.08.
      (2)   In the case of an appropriate use, the P.E. shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of §
151.07.
   (C)   Dam safety requirements.
      (1)   Dams are classified as to their size and their hazard/damage
potential in the event of failure.
      (2)   The construction or major modification of all Class I (high hazard)
and Class II (moderate hazard) dams require an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit.
      (3)   Some Class III (low hazard) dams require an IDNR/OWR dam safety
permit, depending on the drainage area to the dam, the height of the dam and
the impounding capacity behind the dam. Most off-channel detention basins that
have an embankment are non-jurisdictional Class III dam. It is not required
that IDNR/OWR sign off on all non-jurisdictional Class III dams.
      (4)   A consulting engineer with dam safety knowledge can estimate a
hazard classification and determine if an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit is
required.
      (5)   A permit application submittal must be made to IDNR/OWR for the
construction or major modification of jurisdictional dams.
      (6)   Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
   (D)   Other permit requirements.  Ensure any and all required federal, state
and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit
   (E)   Plan Review and permit issuance.
      (1)   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the Village of Calumet Park meet the requirements of this
chapter, and;
      (2)   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection review.
      (1)   Inspect all development projects before, during and after
construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   Schedule on an annual basis an inspection of the floodplain and
document the results of the inspection.
   (G)   Damage determinations.  Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures which must comply with §
151.09(D)(3).
   (H)   Elevation and floodproofing certificates.  Maintain permit files
including:
      (1)   An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or non-residential building subject
to §
151.09; and/or,
      (2)   The elevation to which a non-residential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to §
151.09
   (I)   Records for public inspection.  Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation. Conditional
Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Amendment and
"as-built" elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   (J)   State permits.  Ensure that construction authorization has been
granted by IDNR/OWR, far all development projects subject to §§
151.07 and
151.08, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to the Village of
Calumet Park. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
Village of Calumet Park and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      (1)   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      (2)   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in §
151.02 and all other state, federal or local unit of government projects,
including projects of the Village of Calumet Park and County, except for those
projects meeting the requirements of §
151.07(C)(1);
      (3)   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per §
151.07(C)(3)(e);
      (4)   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to §
151.07(C)(3)(d);
      (5)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in §
151.07(C)(3) (§§
151.07(C)(3)(a), (C)(3)(b), (C)(3)(h));
      (6)   Permit issuance of structures within, under, or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      (7)   Any changes in the mapped flood way or published flood profiles.
   (K)   Cooperation with other agencies.
      (1)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this chapter;
      (2)   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map within six months whenever a modification of the floodplain may
change the base flood elevation or result in a change to the floodplain map;
      (3)   Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance
Program; and
      (4)   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   (L)   Promulgate regulations.  Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any chapter changes.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.05  BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is based on the Flood Insurance
Study for the Village of Calumet Park.
      (1)   If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available from federal, state or other
sources.
      (2)   When a party disagrees with the best available data, they shall
submit a detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with better
data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for review and consideration prior to
any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Little Calumet River shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in
the Flood Insurance Study of the Cook County prepared by FEMA dated August 19,
2008 and such amendments to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to
time.
   (C)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Village of Calumet Park or that may be annexed into the
Village of Calumet Park shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles
in the Flood Insurance Study of Cook County prepared by FEMA and dated August
19, 2008, and such amendments or revisions to such study and maps as may be
prepared from time to time.
   (D)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an "AH Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Cook County.
   (E)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an "A Zone" on the countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map of Cook County shall be according to the best existing data available
from federal, stare or other sources. Should no other data exist, an
engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine base flood
elevations.
      (1)   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists,
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall
be determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, HEC-RAS, or a dynamic
model such as HIP.
      (2)   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-HMS, HEC-I, TR-20, or MP, or by techniques
presented in various publications prepared by the United States Geological
Survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
      (3)   For a non-riverine SFHA, the Base Flood Elevation shall be the
historic flood of record plus three feet, unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study.
      (4)   For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than one
square mile) which has been identified by the Village Engineer pursuant to §
151.04(A)(3) above, the base flood elevation shall be determined by the
applicant utilizing a method as approved in this division (E) of this section.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.06  OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS.
   (A)   General.  Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be
permitted if protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood by proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other
applicable provisions of this chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely
affects the capacity of drainage facilities or systems. Developments located
within the flood fringe shall meet the requirements of this section, along with
the requirements of §
151.09.
   (B)   Development permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Building Commissioner.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations, using the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings.
         (b)   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of §
151.09.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the Building
Commissioner shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood elevation.
         (a)   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the base flood elevation of the current Flood Insurance Rate Map and which
has not been filled after the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map
without a permit as required by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any development
located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically
connected, but shown on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map is subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The Building Commissioner shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
      (4)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas shall
be submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
      (5)   The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals
or waivers that may be required for this type of activity. The Building
Commissioner shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained.
   (C)   Preventing increased damages.  No development in the flood fringe
shall create a threat to public health and safety.
      (1)   Procedure to remove site from the floodplain. If fill is being used
to elevate the site above the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation,
the applicant shall submit sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision
(LOMR) from FEMA for the purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
      (2)   Compensatory storage.
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (b)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-
half times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         (c)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         (d)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation.
         (e)   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
   (D)   Construction of the lowest floor below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
      (1)   A person who has obtained a Letter of Map Revision Based on fill
that removes a site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of
fill to elevate the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the Village
of Calumet Park to construct the lowest floor of a residential building below
the BFE in the flood fringe. The Building Commissioner shall not issue such a
permit unless the applicant has complied with all the criteria set forth in the
following subsection.
      (2)   Compensatory storage shall be provided per division (C)(2) above.
      (3)   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e.,
window wells, access ways) shall be at or above the Flood Protection Elevation
(FPE).
      (4)   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above
the FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the Building Commissioner may waive the ten-foot minimum setback if an
Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to
protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic pressures has been met. The
certifications shall be in the form of a detailed soils and structural design
analysis, which shall be submitted to the Village Engineer, for review. The
Village Engineer may require such additional documentation as necessary to
prove that the proposed shorter setback distance will keep the structure
reasonably safe. In no case shall the setback distance be less than four feet.
      (5)   The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of 20 feet from the structure, shall be above the BFE. However, if
site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained, the Building
Commissioner may waive the 20-foot minimum setback distance if an Illinois
licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to protect
the building from damages due to hydrostatic pressures have been met. A
detailed soils analysis and structural design proving that a shorter setback
distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from flooding, shall be
submitted to the Village of Calumet Park for review. In no case shall the
setback distance be less than four feet
      (6)   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets
all requirements of this subsection and is at least five feet thick under the
basement floor slab. Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to require
the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of a LOMR-F, if such
fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification and degree
permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according to ASTM
standard D-2487, Classification of Soils for Engineering Purposes.
      (7)   The fill material must be homogeneous and isotropic; that is, the
soil must be all of one material, and the engineering priorities must be in the
same direction.
      (8)   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois licensed professional engineer, as warranted by the
site conditions.
      (9)   The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than
five below the BFE.
      (10)   There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab,
and minimum of one-quarter-horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply
shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four times
the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away from the
building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the floor
under me effect of the seepage pressure.
      (11)   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
      (12)   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
      (13)   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set
forth in the preceding paragraphs of this division, the Village Engineer may
allow the construction of a basement below the BFE only if the applicant
demonstrates that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines and
requirements set forth in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe
from flooding. In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is
reasonably safe from flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed
engineering analysis of the proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered
basement study shall be completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by an
Illinois licensed professional engineer.
      (14)   In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site, in
no case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed 18 inches, as measured from the previously existing natural grade. The
rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation, if
necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to drain
the compensatory storage area will not be permitted.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.07  OCCUPATION AND USE OF DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Application of section.  This section applies to proposed development,
redevelopment, site modification or building modification within a designated
floodway. The designated floodway for Little Calumet River shall be as
delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rale Map of Cook County and
referenced in §
151.02. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which meet the
criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the minimum
necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project The development shall also
meet the requirements of §
151.09.
   (B)   Development permit.  No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the Building Commissioner and IDNR/
OWR.
      (1)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Building Commissioner. The application shall include the
following information:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
         (c)   Name of stream or body of water affected;
         (d)   Description of proposed activity;
         (e)   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
         (f)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
         (g)   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
         (h)   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
         (i)   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         (j)   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
         (k)   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him or her as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
         (l)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include
as a minimum:
            1.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
            2.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the North American Vertical Datum of 1988,
adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements,
location of any channels and any existing or future access roads, distance
between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), designated flood
way limit, floodplain limit, specifications and dimensions of any proposed
channel modifications, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow,
and a graphic or numerical scale;
            3.   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, ten-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
            4.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
            5.   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
         (m)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development
         (n)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of division (C)
below.
         (o)   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a Letter of Map Revision has been approved by FEMA.
         (p)   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a licensed
professional engineer, licensed architect or licensed land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of §
151.09 below.
         (q)    If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
            1.   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
            2.   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations
or methods (see division (C)(3)(i) of this section) to accomplish the purpose
of the proposed work;
            3.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in division (C)(3)(i) of this section would
have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected;
and
            4.   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project,
considering cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the
body of water affected.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits and
approvals that may be required for this type of activity.
         (a)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue the development permit
unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer, under the employ or contract
of the Village of Calumet Park shall review and approve applications reviewed
under this section.
   (C)   Preventing increased damages and a list of appropriate uses.
      (1)   The only development in a floodway which will be allowed are
appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and
which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood
heights or velocity or be a threat to public health and safety and welfare or
impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or
channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter. Only those appropriate uses listed in 17 Ill. Adm.
Code Part 3708 will be allowed. The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
         (a)   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife.
         (b)   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
         (c)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
         (d)   Underground and overhead utilities;
         (e)   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail
systems, including any related fencing (at least 50% open when viewed from any
one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including
open air pavilions and toilet facilities (four stall maximum) that will not
block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage.
         (f)   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other non-habitable
accessory structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway
storage;
         (g)   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
         (h)   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
            1.   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event
will not exceed one foot; or
            2.   The applicant of a short-term recreational use facility
parking lot formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events
and accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all
overbank flooding events.
         (i)   Designated floodway regarding, without fill, to create a
positive non-erosive slop toward a watercourse.
         (j)   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of water tight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet away from the exterior wall of the existing structure,
and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the structure.
         (k)   The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged
building, provided that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the
building was damaged to 50% or more of the market value before the damage
occurred, the building will be protected from flooding to the flood protection
elevation.
         (l)   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase
the enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios, and second story additions. If the
building is improved to 50% or more of the market value before the modification
occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will be protected from
flooding to the flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of
any new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation
or channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise non-appropriate uses in
the floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
      (3)   Within the designated floodway, the construction of an appropriate
use, will be considered permissible provided that the proposed project meets
the following engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing
with supporting plans, calculations and data by a licensed professional
engineer and provided that any structure meets the protection requirements of §
151.09:
         (a)   Preservation of flood conveyance, so as not to increase flood
stages upstream.  For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on-stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
            1.   Designated floodway conveyance, "K" = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where
"n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the cross-
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Ven Te
Chow, Open Channel Hydraulics, (McGraw-Hill, New York 1959)).
            2.   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing
and proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a non-vegetative
land cover.
            3.   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations
of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency;
               a.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot horizontal for every four feet of the flooded stream's length.
               b.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot horizontal for every one foot of the flooded stream's length.
               c.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one-foot vertical transition for every ten feet of
stream length shall be used.
               d.   Transition sections shall be provided between cross-
sections with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated
floodway delineation on adjacent properties.
               e.   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be
located perpendicular to flood flows.
         (b)   Preservation of floodway storage so as not to increase
downstream flooding.
            1.   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
            2.   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
at least one and one-half times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
            3.   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
            4.   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing ten-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the
watercourse.
            5.   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location
of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate
through a determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that
the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
            6.   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a
result of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to
reduce flooding at existing structure.
         (c)   Preservation of floodway velocities so as not to increase stream
erosion or flood heights.
            1.   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on-
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events
up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
            2.   In the case of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures
built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood
flows, velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
         (d)   Construction of new bridges or culvert crossings and roadway
approaches.
            1.   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than one-tenth of a foot when compared to the
existing conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
frequency event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within
the channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements.
            2.   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood
stages greater than one-tenth feet, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to
obtain a permit for a dam or waiver.
               a.    The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for tire flood study specified in §
151.05. Bridges and culverts must be analyzed using any commonly accepted FEMA
approved hydraulic models.
               b.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per division
(C)(3)(b) of this section.
               c.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per division (C)(3)(c)
of this section.
               d.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is
used for recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be
received.
               e.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the
bridge showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by division
(C) of this section .
               f.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall
be designed per division (C)(3)(h) below.
         (e)   Reconstruction or modification of existing bridges, culverts,
and approach roads.
            1.   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one-tenth of a foot
increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies
up to and including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a
source of flood damage.
            2.   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
            3.   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing
is a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3708 (Floodway Construction in
Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence
before a permit is issued.
         (f)   On-stream structures built for the purpose of backing up water.
            1.   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than zero-tenths
of a foot when compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to
and including the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements.
            2.   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be
obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
            3.   All dams and impoundment structures as defined in §
151.02 shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3702
(Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the proposed activity involves a
modification of the channel or floodway to accommodate an impoundment, it shall
be demonstrated that:
               a.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest
by providing flood control, public recreation, or regional storm water
detention;
               b.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of
indigenous fish species, which require access to upstream areas as part of
their life cycle, such as for spawning;
               c.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded
water quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual
bank slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation
basin.
               d.   A non-point source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
               e.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of §
151.07
         (g)   Flood proofing of existing habitable, residential and commercial
structures.
            1.   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of
the existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet from the outside of the building.
            2.   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be
required for floodproofing activities.
         (h)   Excavation in the floodway.
            1.   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and
culvert openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing
bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other
appropriate uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
            2.   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering
calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
               a.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot horizontal for every four feet of the flooded stream's length; and
               b.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot horizontal for every one foot of the flooded stream's length; and
               c.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot vertical transition for every ten feet of
stream length shall be used; and
               d.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream
and downstream of the transition sections.
         (i)   Channel modification.  If the proposed activity involves a
channel modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
            1.   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, flood proofing of existing structures, removal of structures
from the floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the
establishment of a stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification
is acceptable if the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water
quality and fish and wildlife habitat;
            2.   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
            3.   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
               a.   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross-
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
               b.   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at
both the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they
will prevent erosion.
               c.   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
               d.   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to that
which is essential for construction of the channel.
               e.   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than 3:1 horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable. Native
vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or rip-rap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as
concrete, gabions, or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
               f.   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall
be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
               g.   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such
features shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and
flow characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established,
where appropriate.
               h.   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end
of the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
               i.   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and
all items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
               j.   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
               k.   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of flood water storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification; and
            4.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of §
151.07.
         (j)   Seeding and stabilization plan.  For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
         (k)   Soil erosion and sedimentation measures.  For all activities in
the floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
            1.   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the
maximum vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the
time soil is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural
vegetation be destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than 15 days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
            2.   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied
to denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within 15 days after final grade is reached on any portion of the
site, and within 15 days to denuded areas which may not be at final grade but
will remain undisturbed for longer than 60 days.
            3.   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion
ditches, and sediment traps and basins.
            4.   A vegetated buffer strip of at least 25 feet in width shall be
preserved and/or re-established, where possible, along existing channels (See
division (C)(3)(p) below). Construction vehicle use of channels shall be
minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed, where necessary, to
minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along channels shall be
restabilized immediately.
            5.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
designed and implemented consistent with Procedures and Standards for Urban
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois (1988) also known as the
"Green Book" and The Illinois Urban Manual (NRCS, 1995).
         (l)   Public flood control projects.  For public flood control
projects, the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if
the applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right-of-way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         (m)   Genera] criteria for analysis of flood elevations.
            1.   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in §
151.05, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the study data
appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR shall be contacted
for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data to use.
            2.   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of
the proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
               a.   The requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency
flood elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
               b.   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water
elevations.
            3.   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built removed, constructed or modified within the next five
years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
         (n)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision.
            1.   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the
applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
            2.   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as-built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging,
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
            3.   In the case of non-government projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
            4.   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
            5.   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
         (o)   Professional engineer's supervision.  All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a licensed professional
engineer.
         (p)   Construction within 25 feet of the channel. For all activities
in the floodway involving construction within 25 feet of the channel, the
following criteria shall be met:
            1.   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least 25 feet of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
            2.   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         (q)   After receipt of conditional approval of the designated floodway
change and issuance of a permit and a Conditional Letter of Map Revision. After
receipt of conditional approval of the designated floodway change and issuance
of a permit and a Conditional Letter of Map Revision, construction as necessary
to change the floodway designation may proceed but no buildings or structures
or other construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area
until the designated floodway map is changed and a final Letter of Map Revision
is received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and
concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the "as-built" plans.
   (D)   Development activities in delegated communities requiring state
review.   For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and
concurrence and/or permit prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or
county delegated state permitting authority in the floodway.
      (1)   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed
bridge pursuant to division (C)(3)(d) above.
      (2)   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to division (C)(3)(e) above.
      (3)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
storage pursuant to divisions (C)(3)(a), (C)(3)(b) and (C)(3)(h).
      (4)   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in §
151.02) and all other federal, state, or local units of government projects,
including projects of the municipality or county.
      (5)   An engineer's determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
      (6)   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
      (7)   Projects in public bodies of water.
   (E)   Other permits.
      (1)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et
seq.
      (2)   No correspondence from IDNR/OWR shall be required if the project
meets the requirements of regional permit 3.
      (3)   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has delegated
this responsibility to the Village of Calumet.
   (F)   Permits for dams.
      (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a
dam as defined in §
151.02 per 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3702 (Rules for Construction of Dams) shall
obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of construction of a dam.
      (2)   If the Building Commissioner finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR/OWR permit, the Building Commissioner shall immediately notify the IDNR/
OWR Bartlett office.
      (3)   If Building Commissioner the finds a dam which is believed to be in
unsafe condition, the Building Commissioner shall immediately notify the owner
of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency (IEMA).
   (G)   Activities that do not require a licensed professional engineer's
review.  The following activities may be permitted without a licensed
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements:  regional
permit 3 which authorizes, for example, underground and overhead utilities,
storm and sanitary sewer outfalls, sidewalks, patios, athletic fields,
playground equipment and streambank protection activities.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.08  OCCUPATION AND USE OF SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED.
   (A)   Generally.  In SFHA or floodplains, (including AE, AH, AO and
unnumbered A Zones) where no floodways have been identified and no base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevations have been established by FEMA, and
draining more than a square mile, no development shall be permitted unless the
cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the
flow and passage of the flood waters nor significantly increase the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
   (B)   Development permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in a SFHA or floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Building Commissioner.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a
licensed engineer, architect or surveyor, the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.09 below.
         (b)   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
            1.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose,
and intended use;
            2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
            3.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            4.    Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which
include as a minimum:
               a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of
the waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site,
graphic or numerical scale, and north arrow;
               b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the North American Vertical Datum of 1988,
adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water), floodplain
limit, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow, and a graphical
or numerical scale;
               c.   Cross-section views of the project perpendicular to the
flow of floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed
conditions including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view,
existing and proposed elevations, normal water elevation, ten-year frequency
flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical
scales (horizontal and vertical); and
               d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
         (c)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of division (C) below.
         (d)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
      (3)   Based on the best available existing data according to federal,
state or other sources, the Village Engineer shall compare the elevation of the
site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (a)   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer's engineer shall calculate the elevation according to §
151.05(E).
         (b)   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current Flood Insurance Rate Map
Identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   The Building Commissioner shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
         (d)   The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity. The
Building Commissioner shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
   (C)   Preventing increased damages.
      (1)   Damaging increase in flood heights, etc.  No development in the
SFHA where a floodway has not been determined shall create a damaging or
potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public
health, safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic
Junctions of the floodway or channel, or impair existing water quality or
aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate
mitigation methods as called for in this chapter.
      (2)   Riverine SFHAs; standards.  Within all riverine SFHAs where the
floodway has not been determined, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Engineering requirements to be met.  The developer shall have a
licensed professional engineer state in writing and show through supporting
plans, calculations, and data that the project meets the engineering
requirements of §
151.07(C)(3)(a) to (C)(3)(i) for the entire floodplain as calculated under the
provisions of §
151.05(E).
            1.   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR and FEMA for acceptance as a designated floodway.
            2.   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR and FEMA, the
developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of §
151.07 for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be defined according to
the definition in §
151.02.
         (b)   IDNR/OWR permit.  A development permit shall not be issued
unless the applicant first obtains a IDNR/OWR permit or a determination has
been made that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required.
         (c)   Permits for dams.
            1.   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a dam as defined in §
151.02 per 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3702 (Rules for Construction of Dams) shall
obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of construction of a dam.
            2.   If the Building Commissioner finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR/OWR permit, the Building Commissioner shall immediately notify the IDNR/
OWR Bartlett office.
            3.   If the Building Commissioner finds a dam which is believed to
be in unsafe condition, the Building Commissioner shall immediately notify the
owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA).
      (3)   Activities permitted.  The following activities may be permitted
without a licensed professional engineer's review or calculation of base flood
elevation and designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit number 2;
         (b)   Barge fleeting faculties meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
         (c)   Aerial utility crossings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
         (d)   Minor boat docks meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit
No. 5;
         (e)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 6; activities (not involving fill or positive change in
grade) are covered by this permit;
         (f)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
         (g)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
         (h)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
         (i)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
         (j)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting conditions of DNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
         (k)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
         (l)   Temporary construction activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 13;
         (m)   Special uses of public waters meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 14; and
         (n)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
      (4)   Altered or relocated watercourses; flood carrying capacity.  The
flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse shall be
maintained.
      (5)   Compensatory storage.
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (b)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-
half times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         (c)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         (d)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All such excavations
shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.09  PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   Generally.  In addition to the requirements found in §§
151.06,
151.07 and
151.08 for development in flood fringes, designated flood ways, and SFHA or
floodplains where no flood ways have been identified, the following
requirements shall be met.
   (B)   Public health standards.
      (1)   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE) unless such materials are stored in a floodproofed
and anchored storage tank and certified by a professional engineer or
floodproofed building constructed according to the requirements of division (D)
below.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other above ground openings located below the FPE are watertight
      (5)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages
   (C)   Carrying capacity and notification.
      (1)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
      (2)   In addition, the Village of Calumet shall notify adjacent
communities in writing 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the
alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
   (D)   Protecting buildings.
      (1)   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain, also known as a
SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below the flood protection
elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet.
         (b)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
"subsequent to the adoption of this chapter". If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section.
         (c)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively "subsequent to the adoption of this chapter". If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
         (d)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do
not apply to returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully
occupied before it was removed to avoid flood damage).
         (e)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days per year, and
         (f)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
151.02. This building protection requirement may be met by one of the following
methods.
      (2)   A residential or non-residential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation; and
         (b)   The following are the fill requirements:
            1.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the
foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
and
            2.   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten-foot minimum may be waived if a structural engineer
certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages due to
hydrostatic pressures; and
            3.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure; and
            4.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
            5.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, storm water
management techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (3)   A residential or non-residential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood or
100-year frequency flood. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or architect or the permanent openings, one on each wall,
shall be no more than one foot above existing grade, and consists of a minimum
of two openings. The openings must have a total net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
below the base flood elevation; and
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris; and
         (c)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage; and
            1.   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the flood protection elevation; and
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the flood protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (d)   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used
for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and not later modified or occupied as habitable space; and
         (e)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by licensed professional engineer or
architect.
         (f)   Manufactured homes, and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than 180 days, shall be elevated to or above the flood protection
elevation; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement by being tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for
the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code Part
870. In addition, all manufactured homes shall meet the following elevation
requirements:
            1.   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved
               a.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
               b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
               c.    In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision;
               d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage from a flood, the top
of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above the flood protection
elevation.
            2.   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least 36 inches in height above grade
and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of equivalent strength,
whichever is less.
         (g)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of division (D)(3)(f) above
unless:
            1.   They are on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and,
            2.   They are fully licensed, ready for highway use, and used only
for recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent
dwelling. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      (4)   Only a non-residential building may be structurally dry
floodproofed (in lieu of elevation) provided that:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight and
capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
         (b)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
         (c)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms, flood
walls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose of
this subsection).
      (5)   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade; and
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade; and
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
at any point; and
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event; and
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
      (6)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
      (7)   Tool sheds, detached garages, and other minor accessory structures
on an existing single-family platted lot, may be constructed with the lowest
floor below the flood protection elevation in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building is not used for human habitation; and
         (b)   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of flood waters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of §
151.07. In addition, all other requirements of §§
151.06,
151.07 and
151.08 must be met; and
         (c)   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation; and
         (d)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation; and
         (e)   The building shall be valued at less than $10,000 and be less
than 500 square feet in floor size; and
         (f)   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or
tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar uses
and cannot be modified later into another use; and
         (g)   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of
division (D)(3)(a);
         (h)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers ,etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
         (i)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
      (8)   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also
meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in §
151.07. Nonconforming structures located in a designated floodway may remain in
use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered in accordance
with §
151.07(C). A non-conforming structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or other
natural or man-made disaster may be restored unless the damage exceeds  50% of
its market value before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to this
chapter.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.10  OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to
the extent that they are known in all official actions related to land
management, use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
Planned Unit Developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with §§
151.06,
151.07,
151.08 and
151.09 and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans for new
subdivisions, mobile home parks and Planned Unit Developments (PUDs) shall
include a signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the plat or
plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in accordance with
the Plat Act ( ILCS Ch. 765, Act 20, § 2).
   (B)   (1)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured
home parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations.
      (2)   Where this information is not available from an existing adopted
study, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for calculating the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per §
151.05(E) and the floodway delineation per the definition in §
151.02.
   (C)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   (D)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall not approve any Planned Unit
Development (PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits
unless such agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.11  VARIANCES.
   (A)   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
designated floodway as defined in §
151.02.
      (1)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Board of
Planning for a variance.
      (2)   The Village Board of Planning shall review the applicant's request
for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. The Village of Calumet Park may attach such conditions to granting of
a variance as it deems necessary to further the flood protection intent of this
chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA; and
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted; and
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary; and
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance; and
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities, or other public
facilities; and
      (6)   The provisions of §§
151.06(C) and §
151.08(C) shall still be met; and
      (7)   The activity is not in a designated floodway; and
      (8)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFTP; and
      (9)   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses; and
      (10)   All other required state and federal permits or waivers have been
obtained.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of §
151.09 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as $25 per $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property, and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant will acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk
and liability.
   (D)   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or historic structure as defined in §
151.02 (historic structures), may be granted using criteria more permissive
than the requirements of divisions (B) and (C) above, subject to the conditions
that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.12  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by man-made
or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   (D)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the (Village of
Calumet Park) or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.13  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication, as required by law.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.14  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and any other ordinance, easements, covenants or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (C)   This chapter is intended to repeal the original ordinance or
resolution which was adopted to meet the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations, but is not intended to repeal the resolution which the Village of
Calumet Park passed in order to establish initial eligibility for the program.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten-days' notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The Village of Calumet Park may make application to the Circuit
Court for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such
other order as the Court.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The Village of Calumet Park shall record a notice of violation on
the tide to the property.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development The stop-work order shall be in
writing, shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (2)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Written
notice of the hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for complaint or reason for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (3)   At the hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Mayor and Board of Trustees
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 08-960, passed 7-10-2008; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 152:  CODES ADOPTED
Section
   
152.01   International Residential Code
   
152.02   International Property Maintenance Code
   
152.03   International Mechanical Code
   
152.04   Electrical Code
   
152.05   Plumbing Code
   
152.06   International Building Code
   
152.07   International Fuel Gas Code
   
152.08   International Energy Conservation Code
   
152.09   Costs and fees
§ 152.01  INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The International Residential Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 07-928, passed 1-25-2007; Ord. 09-995, passed 12-10-2009)
§ 152.02  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 81-360, passed 7-9-1981; Ord. 93-615, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. 00-742,
passed 8-10-2000; Ord. 05-881, passed 4-14-2005; Ord. 09-991, passed 12-10-
2009)
§ 152.03  INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   The International Mechanical Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 93-614, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. 05-887, passed 7-14-2005; Ord. 09-991,
passed 12-10-2009)
§ 152.04  ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The Electrical Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 71-128, passed 5-11-1971; Ord. 82-388, passed 6-10-1982; Ord. 87-491,
passed 12-15-1987; Ord. 93-616, passed 10-28-1993; Ord. 00-748, passed 10-12-
2000; Ord. 05-888, passed 7-14-2005; Ord. 09-996, passed 12-10-2009)
§ 152.05  PLUMBING CODE.
   The Plumbing Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 66-718, passed 2-25-1966; Ord. 71-131, passed 3-25-1971; Ord. 72-157,
passed 11-9-1972; Ord. 81-359, passed 7-9-1981; Ord. 87-475, passed 3-17-1987;
Ord. 90-547, passed 5-24-1990; Ord. 93-609, passed 9-23-1993; Ord. 00-747,
passed 10-12-2000; Ord. 05-889, passed 7-14-2005; Ord. 09-990, passed 12-10-
2009)
§ 152.06  INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   The International Building Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 87-471, passed - -; Ord. 75-207, passed 3-27-1975; Ord. 78-278, passed 5-
11-1978; Ord. 81-358, passed 7-9-1981; Ord. 85-440, passed 5-21-1985; Ord. 87-
473, passed 3-3-1987; Ord. 93-608, passed 9-23-1993; Ord. 00-740, passed 7-27-
2000; Ord. 00-744, passed 9-14-2000; Ord. 05-882, passed 4-14-2005; Ord. 09-
994, passed 12-10-2009)
§ 152.07  INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   The International Fuel Gas Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 09-989, passed 12-10-2009)
§ 152.08  INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   The International Energy Conservation Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 09-993, passed 12-10-2009)
§ 152.09  COSTS AND FEES.
   (A)   Under the village's Building Code and Residential Code, a fee for each
new construction, plan review, building permit, room additions and inspection
shall be paid in accordance with the following:
 
Plan Review:                        Fee:
Residential Property (in-house)     $300.00
This fee shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the Illinois
Municipal League's Municipal Price Index (MPI), using 2008 as the base value
of the MPI, with any such adjustment being calculated as of the start of the
calendar year and rounded to the nearest five dollar ($5) amount.
Residential Property (not in-house) Cost of third-party plan review plus 10%
                                    for administrative costs.
Commercial Property (in-house*)     $500.00
This fee shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the Illinois
Municipal League's Municipal Price Index (MPI), using 2008 as the base value
of the MPI, with any such adjustment being calculated as of the start of the
calendar year and rounded to the nearest five dollar ($5) amount.
Commercial Property (not in-house)  Cost of third-party plan review plus 10%
                                    for administrative costs.
 
Building Permits:
Building Permits:
For new construction, additions, demolition, repairs to existing buildings, the schedule of fees
is as follows:
Cost of Construction:                                                             Fee:
$ 0.00 to $499.99                                                                 $50.00
This fee shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal League's
Municipal Price Index (MPI), using 2008 as the base value of the MPI, with any such adjustment
being calculated as of the start of the calendar year and rounded to the nearest five dollar
($5) amount.
$ 500.00 to $4,999.99                                                             $100.00
This fee shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the Illinois Municipal League's
Municipal Price Index (MPI), using 2008 as the base value of the MPI, with any such adjustment
being calculated as of the start of the calendar year and rounded to the nearest five dollar
($5) amount.
                                                                                  3% of total
$ 5,000.00 and over                                                               contract
                                                                                  amount
Inspection Fee:                                                                   Fee:
Residential Property                                                               
      (in-house)                                                            $40.00
                                                                                   
                                                                                  Cost of third-
Residential Property                                                              party
      (not in-house)                                                        inspection
                                                                                  plus 10% for
                                                                                  administrative
                                                                                  costs
Commercial Property                                                                
      (in-house*)                                                           $80.00
                                                                                   
                                                                                  Cost of third-
Commercial Property                                                               party
      (not in-house)                                                        inspection
                                                                                  plus 10% for
                                                                                  administrative
                                                                                  costs
Each fee covers one inspection.
Re-inspection                                                                      
      Additional residential inspections that are performed by Calumet Park
personnel will cost $40.00 per inspection. Any additional commercial inspections
that cannot be performed by Calumet Park personnel will cost $40.00 per
inspection. These fees shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the   
Illinois Municipal League's Municipal Price Index (MPI), using 2008 as the base
value of the MPI, with any such adjustment being calculated as of the start of
the calendar year and rounded to the nearest five dollar ($5) amount.
 
   (B)   Under the village's Electrical Code, the fees shall be covered within
the building permit fee division (A) of this section. No permit as required by
this Code shall be issued until the fee prescribed in this section shall have
been paid. Nor shall an amendment to any permit be approved until the
additional fee, if any, shall have been paid.
   (C)   Under the village's Plumbing Code, the permit fees for all plumbing
work shall be covered within the building permit fee division (A) of this
section with additional fees as indicated in the following schedule. These
additional fees shall be annually indexed by the Village Treasurer to the
Illinois Municipal League's Municipal Price Index (MPI), using 2008 as the base
value of the MPI, with any such adjustment being calculated as of the start of
the calendar year and rounded to the nearest five dollar ($5) amount. No permit
as required by this Code shall be issued until the fee prescribed in this
section shall have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to any permit be approved
until the additional fee, if any, shall have been paid.
1.  Sewer Connection - Residential                   $150.00
2.  Sewer Connection - Commercial or Multi- Family    
      Three or more units                        $250.00
3.  Sewer Connection - Industrial                    $500.00
4.  Water Connection - Resident - Existing           $150.00
5.  Water Connection - Residential - New             $550.00
    Construction
6.  Water Connection - Commercial or Multi- Family    
      Three or more units - existing             $100.00
7.  Water Connection - Commercial or Multi- Family    
      Three or more units - new construction     $800.00
8.  Water Connection - Industrial - existing         $400.00
9.  Water Connection - Industrial - New Construction $1,000.00
10. Sewer Taps - Residential - 6 inch tap            $250.00
11. Sewer Taps - Commercial or Multi Family           
      Three or more units - 8 inch tap           $500.00
12. Sewer Taps - Industrial -                        $500.00 to $1,500.00
                                                     (Depends on plan and size)
13. Sewer Main Extension:                             
      Residential up to 14 inches                $800.00
      Commercial up to 16 inches                 $900.00
      Industrial up to 24 inches                 $1,000.00
14. Water Main Extension:                             
      4 inch service                             $750.00
      6 inch service                             $1,250.00
      8 inch service                             $1,500.00
      10 inch and over                           $1,750.00
15. Water Taps, 1 inch - 2 inch                      $500.00
   Bond, to be refunded upon approved inspection    $350.00
16. Catch Basins:                                     
   Each 6 inch opening                              $150.00
17. Water Meters:                                     
      DISC                                        
         3/4x5/8 inch                         $200.00
         1 inch                               $300.00
         1-1/2 inch                           $600.00
         2 inch                               $700.00
      COMPOUND                                    
         2 inch                               $2,000.00
         3 inch                               $3,000.00
         4 inch                               $4,000.00
         6 inch                               $5,000.00
   NOTE:  Compound meters measure high and low flow 
      TURBO                                       
         2 inch                               $900.00
         3 inch                               $1,100.00
         4 inch                               $1,700.00
         6 inch                               $3,600.00
         8 inch                               $5,000.00
The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall determine which type
of meter will be used. Prices subject to manufacturer's change.
MWRDGC Permit must be obtained for apartment buildings, Commercial, and
Industrial inspection of manhole.
 
(Ord. 10-1006, passed 1-14-2010; Ord. 10-1006A, passed 1-14-2010; Ord. 16-1144,
passed 2-25-2016)
CHAPTER 153:  MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
153.01   Title and incorporation of preambles
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   License to operate mobile home parks
   
153.05   Permit to establish or construct park; application
   
153.06   Permit and license issuance
   
153.07   License fee
   
153.08   Village action
   
153.09   Operating requirements
   
153.10   Community buildings
   
153.11   Applicability of other codes
   
153.12   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.13   Administrative Review Act
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  TITLE AND INCORPORATION OF PREAMBLES.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Village of Calumet Park,
Illinois "Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Park Ordinance". The statements set
forth in the preambles to this chapter are found to be true and correct and are
incorporated by reference into this chapter as if set forth in full.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.02  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority provided to the village as
a home rule municipality under Article VII, § 6 of Illinois Constitution, ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq. and all other lawful authority provided to the
village, for the following and all other applicable and lawful purposes:
   (A)   To promote public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare;
   (B)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards;
   (C)   To provide for moderate and low income housing;
   (D)   To increase the quality of housing or village residents; and
   (E)   To establish penalties for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.03  DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases not defined in this section shall have the meaning
indicated by common dictionary definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
   FRONT.  The end of the mobile home or manufactured home to which the hitch
is or was attached and used for towing or for delivery to the site.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet
and bath or shower facilities.
   LICENSE.  Mobile Home Park Operator's License.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
including plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems. For
purposes of this chapter, a motorized recreational vehicle shall not be
considered a MANUFACTURED HOME. Any structure defined in this chapter as a
MOBILE HOME shall also be considered a MANUFACTURED HOME. For purposes of this
chapter, the terms MOBILE HOME and MANUFACTURED HOME are used interchangeably.
   MANUFACTURED HOME ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.  An assembly of
materials forming a construction for use which contributes to the comfort,
convenience or necessity of the principal building or structure served,
including, among other things, awnings, cabanas, garages, storage structures,
sheds, decks, carports, fences, windbreaks, porches or other like
appurtenances.
   MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY or MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  A tract of land or
two or more contiguous tracts of land that contain sites with the necessary
utilities for two or more independent manufactured homes for permanent
habitation either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any
building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of
the equipment of such MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY or MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude the tracts
of land from common licensure as a manufactured home community or manufactured
home park if they are maintained and operated jointly. A motorized recreational
vehicle shall not be construed as being part of a manufactured home community
or manufactured home park. Any community defined in the ordinance as a MOBILE
HOME PARK shall also be considered a MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY or
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. For the purposes of this chapter the terms MOBILE HOME
PARK, MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY and MANUFACTURED HOME PARK are used
interchangeably.
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons, provided that any such structure resting on a permanent foundation,
with wheels, tongue, lug bolts and hitch permanently removed, shall also be
construed as a MOBILE HOME. For purposes of this chapter, a motorized
recreational vehicle shall not be considered a MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  An area of land or lands upon which two or more
independent mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of the mobile home park.
   PERMANENT HABITATION.  A period of one or more months.
   SITE.  The lot on which the mobile home is located for permanent habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected or any production or piece of
work, manmade and artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in
some definite manner, the use of which requires permanent or temporary location
above, on. or below the ground.
   VARIANCE. An authorization for the construction or maintenance of structures
following a public hearing and finding that such structures, which are
otherwise prohibited by this chapter, meet certain specified standards.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Calumet Park, Cook County, Illinois.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005; Ord. 11-1044, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 153.04  LICENSE TO OPERATE MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall maintain, conduct
or operate a mobile home park without first obtaining an annual license from
the village. CONDUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK as used in this chapter
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining
common water, sewer or other utility supply or service, or the collection of
rents directly or indirectly from two or more independent mobile homes.
   (B)   The license year or period shall begin on May 1 of each year and
expire on April 30 of the following year.
   (C)   A new license may be issued upon proper application and payment of the
annual license fee provided the applicant is in substantial compliance with all
statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations or other similar legal requirements
applicable to mobile home parks.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.05  PERMIT TO ESTABLISH OR CONSTRUCT PARK; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall establish or
construct a mobile home park or alter a mobile home park which is existing in
the village on the date this chapter takes effect, without first obtaining a
permit from the village.
   (B)   A mobile home park which is in existence on the date this chapter
takes effect shall be considered to be altered if:
      (1)   The number of mobile homes in that mobile home park is or will be
increased above the number existing in that mobile home park on the date this
chapter takes effect; and
      (2)   The mobile home park has not previously applied for a permit
pursuant to this chapter for an alteration that reflects that increase. No
change in any sanitary facilities, methods of water supply, sewer, drainage,
garbage or waste disposal of a mobile home park, and no change in the plot plan
for a mobile home park shall be made without first making a written application
to the village and receiving a written permit from the village. The foregoing
shall not limit the types or nature of events or actions which constitute the
alteration of a mobile home park.
   (C)   In order to obtain a permit to construct or alter a mobile home park,
the applicant shall file with the village a written application and submit plan
documents detailing the proposed construction or alteration, that shall be
prepared by a registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the
State of Illinois, with registration seal affixed, and also setting forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or names and
addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the present or
last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the application;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon which
it is proposed to operate and maintain a mobile home park;
      (3)   The proposed facilities in the mobile home park for water supply,
sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection and any proposed
alterations therein and the maintenance thereof;
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located;
      (5)   The plot plans of the mobile home park;
      (6)   The building plans and specifications for existing and proposed
buildings and facilities;
      (7)   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the mobile home; and
      (8)   All other documents which may be required pursuant to other
lawfully imposed village ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations or
requirements.
   (D)   (1)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached thereto.
      (2)   Each application submitted pursuant to this section shall be
accompanied by an application fee of $100.
      (3)   The application fee once paid to the village shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.06  PERMIT AND LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit to construct or alter a
mobile home park or an application for a license to operate and maintain a
mobile home park, the village shall issue the requested permit or license, if
the mobile home park is, or the proposed mobile home park will be, in
conformity with this chapter and all other lawfully imposed village ordinances,
resolutions, rules, regulations or requirements.
   (B)   If the application for a permit to construct or alter, or an
application for a license is declined, the village shall give the reasons
therefore in writing to the applicant. If the village's objections can be
corrected, the applicant may amend his or her application and re-submit it for
approval.
   (C)   (1)   The village shall examine or cause to be examined all
applications for permits and licenses within a reasonable time after filing.
      (2)   If the application or the plans do not conform to the requirements
of this chapter and all other lawfully imposed village ordinances, resolutions,
rules, regulations or requirements, the village shall deny the application in
writing, stating the reasons therefore.
   (D)   If the application conforms to the requirements of this chapter and
all other lawfully imposed village ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations
or requirements, the village shall issue the permit or license. The village
shall have the authority to call on the assistance of other entities or
agencies which could provide consultation, expertise or have regulatory
authority beyond that of the village.
   (E)   If a permit to construct or alter a mobile home park has been issued,
the applicant upon completion thereof shall notify the village. The village
shall then inspect the mobile home park and, if completed in accordance with
the accepted application, the village shall issue a license.
   (F)   Issuance of a permit or license pursuant to this chapter does not
relieve the applicant from securing village zoning approvals, building permits
or from complying with all other lawfully imposed village ordinances,
resolutions, rules, regulations or requirements which would otherwise apply to
the construction, alteration, operation and/or maintenance of mobile home
parks.
   (G)   All permits and licenses issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter are nontransferable.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.07  LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   In addition to the application fees provided for in this chapter, the
licensee shall pay to the village on or before April 30 of each year, an annual
license fee which shall be $2,000 plus $100 for each mobile home space in the
mobile home park.
   (B)   (1)   The licensee shall also pay to the village $100 for each
additional mobile home and/or mobile home space added to a mobile home park
under authority of a written permit to alter the mobile home park as provided
in §§
153.05 and
153.06 above.
      (2)   All requisite permits, licenses and fee payments must be secured
before any mobile homes are located on the existing or additional mobile home
sites.
      (3)   The village shall issue an amended license to cover such additional
mobile homes or mobile home sites, when they are to be occupied before the end
of the license year, for which an annual license has been previously issued and
otherwise comply with this chapter and all other applicable legal requirements.
   (C)   An applicant for an original license to operate a new mobile home park
constructed under a permit issued by the village shall only be required to pay
a prorated annual license fee based on the remaining months of the licensure
year for the first year of operation.
   (D)   Each license fee shall be paid to the village and, once accepted by
the village, no license fee or portion thereof shall be returned to the
applicant.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.08  VILLAGE ACTION.
   (A)   Notice to comply.
      (1)   The village shall serve or cause to be served upon the licensee of
a mobile home park, a written notice to comply which shall specify the way or
ways in which a licensee has failed to comply with this chapter and/or any
other lawfully imposed village ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations or
requirements applicable to mobile home parks.
      (2)   The village shall serve the notice to comply by receipted personal
delivery or certified mail on the mobile home park licensee.
      (3)   That notice shall be considered served when personally delivered to
such licensee or when deposited in a receptacle authorized by the U.S. Postal
Service for the mailing of letters, in an envelope properly addressed to that
licensee at the address on file with the village, postage pre-paid in the
amount required for certified mailing.
      (4)   That notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate the
nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition, or to otherwise bring the
mobile home park into compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all
other lawfully imposed village ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations or
requirements applicable to mobile home parks, within five days or within a
longer period of time as may be allowed by the village.
      (5)   If that licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of
the notice, within the time specified or the extended period of time, the
village may revoke or suspend the license in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Revocation or suspension.
      (1)   The village may suspend or revoke a permit or license issued
pursuant to this chapter in the event that:
         (a)   There has been any false statement or misrepresentation in the
application or plans on which a permit or license was based;
         (b)   A licensee fails to comply with this chapter and/or any other
lawfully imposed village ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or requirement
applicable to mobile home parks; or
         (c)   A licensee fails to timely comply with any of the terms or
conditions contained in a village notice to comply.
      (2)   A licensee of a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
entitled to a hearing before the Village Mayor or his or her designee to
contest the village's suspension or revocation of that license. A permittee of
a permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall have the same rights and
obligations which are set forth in this section  regarding objections to and
hearings on suspensions and revocations for licensees of licenses issued
pursuant to this chapter. The following shall apply to any village revocation
or suspension of a license or permit issued pursuant to this chapter:
         (a)   At least ten days before any such suspension or revocation takes
effect, the village shall serve written notice of suspension or revocation by
receipted personal delivery or certified mail on the mobile home park licensee
or permittee. That notice of suspension or revocation shall be considered
served when personally delivered to such licensee or permittee or when
deposited in a receptacle authorized by the U.S. Postal Service for the mailing
of letters, in an envelope properly addressed to that licensee or permittee at
the address on file with the village, postage pre-paid for certified mailing.
That notice of suspension or revocation shall advise that licensee or permittee
of the village's intent to suspend or revoke the license or permit, the reasons
for the suspension or revocation set forth in sufficient detail as to allow the
licensee or permittee to defend against such action, and statements advising
the licensee or permittee of its right to a hearing to contest that suspension
or revocation and the need to serve a written request for such hearing on the
village within ten days of the date of service of the notice of suspension or
revocation;
         (b)   The licensee's license or the permittee's permit shall be
suspended or revoked if that licensee or permittee fails to serve a written
request for such hearing on the village within ten days of the date of service
of the notice of suspension or revocation. The village shall set the date,
location and time for a hearing if the licensee or permittee serves a serve a
written request for the hearing on the village within ten days of the date of
service of the notice of suspension or revocation. The village shall serve
notice of the date, location and time of the hearing on the licensee or
permittee in the same manner as required by this chapter for the service of
notice of suspension or revocation. The date for that hearing shall be not less
than five days after the village's receipt of the licensee's request for that
hearing;
         (c)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Village Mayor or other
person designated in writing by the Village Mayor as a Hearing Officer. Any
Hearing Officer so appointed shall conduct the hearing, shall rule on
objections raised during the hearing and shall otherwise be authorized to take
such actions which are necessary for the fair and impartial conduct of the
hearing; provided that the Hearing Officer shall not be authorized to make
findings of fact or to render a decision based upon matters presented at the
hearing; and further provided that the Hearing Officer may submit, to the
Village Mayor, recommended findings of fact based upon matters presented at the
hearing and a recommended decision based upon those findings, if the Hearing
Officer is requested to do so by the Mayor;
         (d)   At the hearing, the village shall have the burden of proving
facts to support the suspension or revocation at issue in the notice of
suspension or revocation. The Mayor or Hearing Officer shall permit the
licensee or permittee to appear in person and to be represented by counsel at
the hearing at which time the licensee or permittee shall be afforded an
opportunity to present all relevant matter in support of its position or in
resisting the revocation or suspension its license or permit. The hearing shall
be conducted in a fair and impartial manner;
         (e)   The Mayor shall make findings of fact based upon the matters
presented at such hearing, and the Mayor shall render his or her decision based
upon those findings, within 30 days after the termination of the hearing,
unless additional time is required by him or her for a proper disposition of
the matter. When the hearing has been conducted by a Hearing Officer, the Mayor
shall review the record of the hearing before making findings of fact and
rendering a decision. It shall be the duty of the Mayor to serve a copy of his
or her findings of fact and decision on the mobile home park's licensee or
permittee, within three days of rendering such decision, in the same manner as
is required for by this chapter for the service of a notice of suspension or
revocation and shall be considered served in the same manner as when a notice
of suspension or revocation is considered served. The suspension or revocation
shall take effect upon that service. The Mayor's decision shall be considered a
final administrative decision; and
         (f)   Technical errors in the proceeding before the Mayor or Hearing
Officer or their failure to observe the technical rules of evidence shall not
constitute grounds for the reversal of any decision made as a result of a
hearing convened pursuant to this chapter unless it appears to a court that
such error or failure materially affected the rights of any party and resulted
in substantial injustice to the party.
   (C)   Variances. The Village Mayor may grant a variance to the regulations
in this chapter, after a public hearing, where the Village Mayor, or other
person designated in writing by the Village Mayor as a hearing officer, makes
findings of fact in accordance with the standards hereinafter prescribed.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be filed in writing with the
village. The application shall contain such information as the village may
require. Within 45 days after the village's receipt of the application, the
Village Mayor, or the designated hearing officer, shall hold a public hearing
on the application for a variance. Notice of the time and place of such public
hearing shall be published at least once in a newspaper with general
circulation within the village. Said publication is to be made not more than 30
days nor less than 15 days before the date of the hearing.
      (2)   The Village Mayor, or the designated hearing officer, shall be
authorized to take such actions which are necessary for the fair and impartial
conduct of the hearing, provided the designated hearing officer shall not be
authorized to make findings of fact or to render a decision based upon matters
presented at the hearing: rather, the designated hearing officer shall be
authorized to submit, to the Village Mayor, recommended findings of facts based
upon matters presented at the hearing and a recommended decision based upon
those findings.
      (3)   The applicant shall have the burden of proving facts to support the
required standards for a variance required herein. The Village Mayor shall make
findings of fact based upon the matters presented at such hearing, and the
Mayor shall render his or her decision based upon those findings within 30 days
after the conclusion of the hearing. The village shall serve a copy of the
Mayor's findings of fact and decision on the applicant for variance within
three days of rendering such decision, in the same manner as is required by
this chapter for the Service of a Notice of Suspension or Revocation and shall
be considered served in the manner as when a Notice of Suspension or Revocation
is considered served. The Village Mayor's decision shall be considered a Final
Administrative Decision.
      (4)   The designated hearing officer shall not recommend and the Village
Mayor shall not grant a variance to the regulations of this chapter unless
there are findings of facts based upon the evidence presented in the hearing
for each specific case that:
         (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
applicable property such that the strict applications of the provisions of this
chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the property; and
         (b)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right of the applicant; and
         (c)   The circumstances giving rise to the need for the variance are
peculiar to the parcel and are not generally characteristic of other parcels in
the jurisdiction of this chapter; and
         (d)   The proposed variance will not be detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of the public or injurious to adjacent property; and
         (e)   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having a proprietary interest in the property; and
         (f)   The proposed variance will not be in contradiction to other
local, state or federal regulations; and
         (g)   The proposed variation is in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005; Ord. 11-1044, passed 8-11-2011)
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.09  OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each mobile home park licensed or to be constructed or altered under the
provisions of this chapter shall be constructed, altered, operated and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Any mobile home erected on a site within the village after the
effective date of this chapter shall be at least 14 feet or more in width and
at least 60 feet or more in length.
   (B)   All licenses and permits to construct, alter and operate the mobile
home park shall be prominently displayed in the mobile home park office.
   (C)   Every mobile home park shall be in the charge of one or more
responsible attendant(s) or caretaker(s) whose name(s), addresses and telephone
number(s) shall be on file at all times with the village. No person shall be an
attendant or caretaker or any such mobile home park if he or she has been
convicted of a felony, Class A misdemeanor or an offense which if committed in
Illinois would be considered a felony or Class A misdemeanor. Each person
seeking to be such an attendant or caretaker shall submit to the village such
information as is reasonably necessary for the village to determine that such
person has not been convicted of a felony, Class A misdemeanor or similar
offense. This information shall be submitted to the village before such person
becomes such an attendant or caretaker and thereafter, each year at the time
the mobile home park for which the attendant or caretaker is employed makes its
application for an annual license. The attendant(s) or caretaker(s) duties
shall include, without limitation in any manner whatsoever, responding to
lawful directions from Village representatives which concern the mobile home
park, responding to the reasonable needs of mobile home park residents and
maintaining the mobile home park, its facilities and equipment in a clean,
orderly and sanitary condition. Each such mobile home park which has ten; or
more mobile homes or has mobile homes occupying 25% or more of the sites
legally available for mobile homes in such mobile home park (whichever is less)
shall cause and employ such an attendant or caretaker to be resident and
present at all times in a mobile home or other residential facility located
within the mobile home park and that mobile home or other residential facility
shall serve as the mobile home park's office.
   (D)   No mobile home park shall be located such that the drainage of the
mobile home park area will endanger any water supply. All mobile home parks
shall be well drained. No waste water shall be deposited on the surface of the
ground within the mobile home park.
   (E)   Each site on which a mobile home is located shall have a minimum area
of 2,500 square feet, except that sites existing in mobile home parks which are
occupied with a mobile home on the effective date of this chapter shall be
exempt from this requirement only for so long as the mobile home which occupies
that space on the date of this chapter continues to occupy that space.
   (F)   No mobile home shall be located closer than five feet to the side lot
lines of a mobile home park, or closer than ten feet to a public street, alley
or building. Each individual site shall abut or face on a private or public
driveway or roadway of not less than 24 feet in width, which driveway or
roadway shall have unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. There
shall be an open space of at least ten feet adjacent to the sides of every
mobile home and at least five feet adjacent to the ends of every mobile home
for mobile homes placed on a site prior to the effective date of this chapter.
For mobile homes placed on a site after the effective date of this chapter, no
portion of a mobile home, excluding the tongue, shall be closer than ten feet
side to side, eight feet end to side, and six feet end to end horizontally from
any other mobile home or community building. Compliance with the requirements
of this division shall be adhered to whenever an owner of a mobile home
community enlarges or expands a concrete pad used to support a mobile home,
installs a new mobile home, or replaces an existing mobile home on or after the
effective date of this chapter.
   (G)   For new mobile home parks constructed and licensed after the effective
date of this chapter and for all alterations of mobile home parks after the
effective date of this chapter, no mobile home shall be located closer than ten
feet to a private street.
   (H)   An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality, approved by the
village shall be furnished at each mobile home park. Each site shall be
provided with a cold water tap located in accordance with regulations of the
village.
   (I)   All sewage and other water carried wastes shall be disposed of into a
municipal sewerage system.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of any mobile home park
to provide an approved type of water and odor tight connection from each mobile
home's water drainage to the sewer connection, and it shall be the duty of the
owner or operator to make the connection and keep all occupied mobile homes
connected to the sewer while located in the mobile home park. Sewer connections
in unoccupied sites shall be closed such that they will emit no odors or cause
a breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be allowed to fall on the
ground from a mobile home.
   (K)   A sufficient number of adequate vermin, pest resistant and watertight
containers shall be supplied for the storage of garbage. Grass, trees and
shrubbery shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and attractive condition,
which creates neither a nuisance nor menace to public health. Garbage
containers shall be emptied at least once a week and shall not be filled to
overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling or a breeding place for
insects. Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the village.
   (L)   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be vermin and pest resistant and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the mobile home park or pathways.
   (M)   All mobile homes shall each be equipped by the tenant with fire
extinguishers in working order. The type and location of each extinguisher
shall be determined by the village's Fire Chief in accordance with customary
standards. Additionally, a smoke detector and a carbon monoxide detector, in
working order, shall be installed by the tenant in each bedroom in the mobile
home, in accordance with customary standards approved by the village's Fire
Chief. The space under mobile homes and accessory buildings and structures
shall not be used for the storage of combustible materials or for the storage
or placement of flammable liquids, gases or liquid or gas fuel-powered
equipment.
   (N)   If a mobile home park has fire hydrants within its property, the fire
hydrant valves shall be tested annually and the flow rates documented by the
village. The licensee shall be required to correct any deficiencies determined
as a result of the tests within such reasonable time as determined by the
village's Fire Chief.
   (O)   The residents of the mobile home park shall be advised in a writing of
any deficiency in any fire hydrant located within the mobile home park, with
such writing being left with the resident, or in the absence of the resident
from the mobile home park at the time the notice is being given, then securely
fastened to a prominent place on the resident's mobile home, by the licensee
within 24 hours of the time when that licensee becomes aware of that
deficiency. The location of the deficient fire hydrant or hydrants shall be
specified in that writing along with a plan to correct the situation and an
anticipated date for completion. A copy of the notification shall be provided
to the village at the same time it is provided to the residents.
   (P)   All new mobile home parks created or altered after the effective date
of this chapter, must be provided with fire hydrants at least every 350 feet of
any structure. At a minimum, the hydrants within the mobile home park must be
linked to a six-inch water main that generates 1,000 to 1,500 gallons per
minute, with a static pressure of 35 psi.
   (Q)   Within five years after the adoption of this chapter, all mobile home
parks must implement one of the following fire protection systems:
      (1)   Manufactured home community based system, connected to the
village's fire prevention systems, with fire hydrants at least every 350 feet
of any structure. At a minimum, the hydrants within the mobile home park must
be connected to a six-inch water main that generates 1,000 to 1,500 gallons per
minute, with a static pressure of 35 psi; or
      (2)   An adequate and reliable water supply system that meets fire
mitigation needs, that has been approved by the village in consultation with
the local fire protection district. Examples include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   A mobile home park based system, connected to the local water
distribution system, with fire hydrants strategically placed. At a minimum, the
hydrants within the system must be connected to a six-inch water main that
generates 1,000 to 1,500 gallons per minute, with a static pressure of 35 psi;
and
         (b)   An onsite water reservoir.
   (R)   Temporary porches, canvas-roofed canopies and skirts may be permitted
for mobile homes and auxiliary rooms if in compliance with applicable local
fire safety and building codes.
   (S)   Manufactured home accessory buildings or structures constructed after
the effective date of this chapter may be located immediately adjacent to a
site's lot line when constructed entirely of non combustionable materials,
provided that the buildings or structures are at least three feet from an
accessory building or structure on an adjacent site. Accessory buildings and
structures constructed before the effective date of this chapter shall be
permitted, the structures to be permitted as nonconforming.
   (T)   (1)   All streets and driveways in every mobile home park must be
paved with asphalt or similar material and maintained in a passable and
reasonably dust-proof condition at all times.
      (2)   Without limiting the foregoing in any manner whatsoever, no street
and/or driveway established, constructed or otherwise created on or after the
effective date of this chapter in any mobile home park shall be raised and
lowered in a manner intended to slow traffic through the use of a device
commonly known as a speed bump or any similar device.
      (3)   Without limiting the foregoing in any manner whatsoever, any such
speed bump or similar device existing in any mobile home park on the effective
date of this chapter shall be removed within one year of the effective date of
this chapter.
      (4)   All streets and driveways in every mobile home park, except those
streets and driveways in existence on the effective date of this chapter or as
otherwise provided in this chapter, shall have a minimum width of 24 feet.
   (U)   There shall be a sidewalk for public use erected in front of every
mobile home erected on and after the effective date of this chapter. The
sidewalk shall be at least 30 inches wide and shall be connected to other
sidewalks in the mobile home park in a manner approved by the village based
upon similarities to the configuration of other sidewalks in the village.
   (V)   The owner of every mobile home park shall assume full responsibility
for maintaining in good repair and condition all sanitary, electrical and
safety appliances in the park.
   (W)   Electrical outlets for each individual site shall be provided and the
installation shall be in accordance with all applicable legal requirements.
   (X)   In no event shall a dependent mobile home, or non-permanent shelter or
other vehicle designed or used for sleeping purposes, other than an independent
mobile home, be permitted for occupancy at any time in a mobile home park.
   (Y)   (1)   The owner of every mobile home park shall maintain accurate
records of the owners and occupants of each mobile home within such mobile home
park.
      (2)   The owner of every mobile home park shall provide the village with
written notice of any change in the ownership and/or occupancy of any mobile
home with such mobile home park within 24 hours after any employee or
representative of the mobile home park has reasonable knowledge of the intent
to make such a change.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.10  COMMUNITY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   When mobile home park kitchens, dining rooms, laundries or other
facilities are provided, such facilities and equipment as are supplied must be
maintained in a sanitary condition and kept in good repair, in accordance with
all applicable legal requirements.
   (B)   All buildings constructed or altered and all plumbing, electrical and
heating installations shall be in accordance with existing village requirements
and other applicable legal requirements.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.11  APPLICABILITY OF OTHER CODES.
   (A)   All other ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations, motions,
orders or other legal requirements which have been adopted by the village and
which apply to mobile homes and/or mobile home parks remain applicable to
mobile homes and/or mobile home parks and are in full force and effect to the
extent that they do not conflict with any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Mobile homes and mobile home parks shall comply with such ordinances,
resolutions, codes, rules, regulations, motions, orders or other legal
requirements to the extent that they are applicable and do not conflict with
any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Without limiting the foregoing in any manner whatsoever, any
provisions of such ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations, motions,
orders or other legal requirements which apply to residences, residential
structures or similar terminology shall apply to mobile homes and mobile home
parks to the extent that such provisions are applicable and do not conflict
with any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.12  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No mobile home newly erected or situated on a site within the village
on and after the effective date of this chapter shall be occupied until it has
been issued a certificate of occupancy by the village. Such a certificate of
occupancy shall only be issued after an inspection by one or more village
representatives which determines that the mobile home is in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other village ordinances, resolutions,
codes, rules, regulations, motions, orders or other legal requirements to the
extent that they are applicable and do not conflict with any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   No new owner and/or occupant of a mobile home may take ownership of
and/or occupy that mobile home until it has been issued a certificate of
occupancy by the village. Such a certificate of occupancy shall only be issued
after an inspection by one or more village representatives which determines
that the mobile home is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
all other village ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations, motions,
orders or other legal requirements to the extent that they are applicable and
do not conflict with any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as provided in divisions (A) and (B) above, no person shall
occupy any mobile home in the village unless a certificate of occupancy has
been issued for that mobile home by the village within three years of the date
of this chapter. Such a certificate of occupancy shall only be issued after an
inspection by one or more village representatives which determines that the
mobile home is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other
village ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations, motions, orders or
other legal requirements to the extent that they are applicable and do not
conflict with any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   The village shall provide each mobile home which has been issued a
certificate of occupancy with a sticker indicating the issuance. The owner and/
or occupant of the mobile home shall cause the sticker to be affixed and
maintained in a prominent and easily and highly visible place on the side of
the mobile home that faces the street.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.13  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW ACT.
   The "Administrative Review Act", ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., and
all amendments and modifications thereof, shall apply to and govern all
proceedings for judicial review of final administrative decisions of the
village hereunder.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter, shall, except as
otherwise provided, be fined pursuant to § 10.99.
   (B)   Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. The village
may, in addition to other remedies provided in this chapter, bring an action
for an injunction to restrain such violation, or to enjoin the operation of any
such mobile home park.
(Ord. 05-899, passed 11-22-2005; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 154:  LANDLORD AND TENANT; DISPUTES
Section
   
154.01   Exclusions
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Tenant responsibilities
   
154.04   Landlord's right of access
   
154.05   Remedies for improper denial of access
   
154.06   Landlord's responsibility to maintain
   
154.07   Notice of conditions affecting habitability
   
154.08   Tenant remedies
   
154.09   Landlord remedies
   
154.10   Rental agreement
   
154.11   Prohibition of retaliatory conduct by landlord
   
154.12   Interruption of tenant occupancy by landlord
   
154.13   Procedures for landlord-tenant disputes
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01  EXCLUSIONS.
   Rental of the following dwelling units shall not be governed by this
chapter, unless the rental agreement thereof is created to avoid the
application of this chapter:
   (A)   Dwelling unit occupied by a purchaser or seller in a real contract
prior to the transfer of title to the property;
   (B)   A dwelling unit occupied by an employee of a landlord whose right to
occupancy is conditional to employment in or about the premises;
   (C)   Housing accommodations in any hospital, convent, monastery, extended
care facility, asylum or not-for-profit home for the aged, temporary overnight
shelter, transitional shelter, or in a dormitory owned and operated by an
elementary school, high school or institution of higher learning;
   (D)   A dwelling unit that is occupied by a purchaser pursuant to a real
estate purchase contract prior to the transfer of title to the property to the
purchaser, or by a seller of property pursuant to a real estate purchase
contract subsequent to the transfer of title from the seller; and
   (E)   A dwelling unit in a cooperative occupied by a holder of a proprietary
lease.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   LANDLORD.  The owner, agent, lessor or sublessor or the successor in
interest of any of them, of a dwelling unit or premise of which it is part.
   OWNER.  One or more persons, jointly or severally, in whom is vested all or
part of the legal title to property, or all or part of the beneficial ownership
and a right to present use and enjoyment of the premises, including a mortgagee
in possession.
   PERSON.  An individual, corporation, government, governmental subdivision or
agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association or any other
legal or commercial entity.
   PREMISES.  A lot, plot, or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   RENT.  Any consideration, including any payment, bonus, benefits or
gratuity, demanded or received by a landlord for or in connection with the use
or occupancy of a dwelling unit.
   RENTAL AGREEMENT.  All written or oral agreements embodying the terms and
conditions concerning the use and occupancy of a dwelling unit.
   TENANT.  A person, corporation, partnership or group whether or not the
legal owner of record occupying a building or use premise or portion thereof as
a unit.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.03  TENANT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Every tenant must:
   (A)   Comply with all obligations imposed specifically upon tenants by
provisions of the municipal code applicable to dwelling units;
   (B)   Keep that part of the premises that he or she occupies and uses as
safe as the condition of the premises permits;
   (C)   Dispose of all ashes, rubbish, garbage and other waste from his or her
dwelling unit in a clean and safe manner;
   (D)   Keep all plumbing fixtures in the dwelling unit or used by the tenants
as clean as their condition permits;
   (E)   Use in a reasonable manner all electrical, plumbing, sanitary,
heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and other facilities and appliances,
including elevators, in the premises;
   (F)   Not deliberately or negligently destroy, deface, damage, impair or
remove any part of the premises or knowingly permit any person on the premises
with his or her consent to do so; and
   (G)   Conduct himself or herself and require other persons on the premises
with his or her consent to conduct themselves in a manner that will not disturb
his or her neighbors' peaceful enjoyment of the premises.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.04  LANDLORD'S RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   A tenant shall not unreasonably withhold consent to the landlord to enter
the dwelling unit:
   (A)   To make necessary or agreed repairs, decorations, alterations or
improvements;
   (B)   To supply necessary or agreed services;
   (C)   To conduct inspections authorized or required by any government
agency;
   (D)   To exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective or actual purchasers,
mortgagees, workpersons or contractors;
   (E)   To exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective tenants 60 days or less
prior to the expiration of the existing rental agreement;
   (F)   For practical necessity where repairs or maintenance elsewhere in the
building unexpectedly requires that access;
   (G)   To determine a tenant's compliance with provisions in the rental
agreement;
   (H)   In case of emergency; and
   (I)   The landlord shall not abuse the right of access or use it to harass
the tenant except in cases where access is authorized by division (F) or (H)
above, the landlord shall give the tenant notice of the landlord's intent to
enter of no less than two days. The notice shall be provided directly to each
dwelling unit by mail, telephone, written notice to the dwelling unit, or by
other reasonable means designed in good faith to provide notice to the tenant.
      (1)   If access is required because of repair work or common facilities
or other apartments, a general notice may be given by the landlord to all
potentially affected tenants that entry may be required. In cases where access
is authorized by division (F) or (H) above, the landlord may enter the dwelling
unit without notice or consent of the tenant.
      (2)   The landlord shall give the tenant notice of such entry within two
days after the entry.
      (3)   The landlord may enter only at reasonable times except in case of
an emergency.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.05  REMEDIES FOR IMPROPER DENIAL OF ACCESS.
   (A)   If the tenant refuses to allow lawful access, the landlord may obtain
injunctive relief to compel access or terminate the rental agreement. In either
case, the landlord may recover damages.
   (B)   (1)   If the landlord makes an unlawful entry or a lawful entry in an
unreasonable manner or makes repeated unreasonable demands for entry otherwise
lawful, but which have the effect of harassing the tenant, the tenant may
obtain injunctive relief to prevent the recurrence of the conduct, or terminate
the rental agreement pursuant to the notice provisions provided for in this
chapter.
      (2)   In each case, the tenant may recover an amount equal to not more
than one month's rent or twice the damage sustained by him or her, whichever is
greater.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.06  LANDLORD'S RESPONSIBILITY TO MAINTAIN.
   The landlord shall maintain the premises in compliance with all applicable
provisions of the municipal code and shall promptly make any and all repairs
necessary to fulfill this obligation.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.07  NOTICE OF CONDITIONS AFFECTING HABITABILITY.
   Before a tenant initially enters into or renews a rental agreement for a
dwelling unit, the landlord or any person authorized to enter into a rental
agreement on his or her behalf shall disclose to the tenant in writing:
   (A)   Any code violations which have been cited by the Village of Calumet
Park during the previous 12 months for the dwelling unit and common areas and
provide notice of the pendency of any code enforcement litigation or compliance
board proceeding pursuant to the municipal code affecting the dwelling unit or
common area. The notice shall provide the case number of the litigation and/or
the identification number of the Compliance Board proceeding and a listing of
any code violations cited.
   (B)   (1)   Any notice of intent by the Village of Calumet Park or any
utility provider to terminate water, gas, electrical or other utility service
to the dwelling unit or common areas.
      (2)   The disclosure shall state the type of service to be terminated,
the intended date of termination and whether the termination will affect the
dwelling unit, the common areas or both.
      (3)   A landlord shall be under a continuing obligation to provide
disclosure of the information described in this division (B) through a tenancy.
      (4)   If a landlord violates this section, the tenant or prospective
tenant shall be entitled to remedies described in this chapter.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.08  TENANT REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to any remedies provided under federal law, a tenant shall
have the remedies specified in this section under the circumstances herein set
forth.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, material noncompliance shall include,
but is not limited to, any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Failure to maintain the structural integrity of the building or
structure or parts thereof;
      (2)   Failure to comply with applicable requirements of the municipal
code for the number, width, construction, location or accessibility of exits;
      (3)   Failure to maintain exit, stairway, fire escape or directional
signs where required by the municipal code;
      (4)   Failure to provide smoke detectors, sprinkler systems, standpipe
systems, fire alarm systems, automatic fire detectors or fire extinguishers
where required by the municipal code;
      (5)   Failure to maintain elevators in compliance with applicable
provisions of the municipal code;
      (6)   Failure to provide and maintain in good working order a flush water
closet, lavatory basin, bathtub or shower or kitchen sink;
      (7)   Failure to maintain heating facilities or gas-fired appliances in
compliance with the requirements of the municipal code;
      (8)   Failure to provide heat or hot water in such amounts and at such
levels and times as required by the municipal code;
      (9)   Failure to provide hot and cold running water as required by the
municipal code;
      (10)   Failure to provide adequate hall or stairway lighting as required
by the municipal code;
      (11)   Failure to maintain the foundation, exterior walls or exterior
roof in sound condition and repair, substantially watertight and protected
against rodents;
      (12)   Failure to maintain floors, interior walls or ceilings in sound
condition and good repair;
      (13)   Failure to maintain windows, exterior doors or basement hatchways
in sound condition and repair and substantially tight and to provide locks or
security devices as required by the municipal code, including deadlatch locks,
deadbolt locks, sash or ventilation locks, and front door windows or peep
holes;
      (14)   Failure to supply screens where required by the municipal code;
      (15)   Failure to maintain stairways or porches in safe condition and
sound repair;
      (16)   Failure to maintain the basement or cellar in a safe and sanitary
condition;
      (17)   Failure to maintain facilities, equipment or chimneys in safe and
sound working conditions;
      (18)   Failure to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water;
      (19)   Failure to exterminate insects, rodents or other pests;
      (20)   Failure to supply or maintain facilities for refuse disposal;
      (21)   Failure to prevent the accumulation of garbage, trash, refuse or
debris as required by the municipal code;
      (22)   Failure to provide adequate light or ventilation as required by
the municipal code;
      (23)   Failure to maintain plumbing facilities, piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances in good operating condition and repair;
      (24)   Failure to provide or maintain electrical systems, circuits,
receptacles and devices as required by the municipal code;
      (25)   Failure to maintain and repair any equipment which the landlord
supplies or is required to supply; or
      (26)   Failure to maintain the dwelling unit and common areas in a fit
and habitable condition.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.09  LANDLORD REMEDIES.
   Every landlord shall have the remedies specified in this section for the
following circumstances.
   (A)   Failure to maintain. If there is material noncompliance by the tenant
with §
154.03 above (other than division (G) thereof), and the tenant fails to comply
as promptly as conditions permit in case of emergency or in cases other than
emergencies within 14 days of receipt of written notice by the landlord
specifying the breach and requesting that the tenant remedy it within that
period of time, the landlord may enter the dwelling unit and have the necessary
work done in the manner required by law. The landlord shall be entitled to
reimbursement from the tenant of the costs of repairs under this section.
   (B)   Disturbance of others. If the tenant violates §
154.03(G) above within 60 days after receipt of a written notice as provided in
division (B), the landlord may obtain injunctive relief against the conduct
constituting the violation, or may terminate the rental agreement on ten-days'
written notice to the tenant.
   (C)   Abandonment. Abandonment of the dwelling unit shall be deemed to have
occurred when:
      (1)   Actual notice has been provided to the landlord by the tenant
indicating the tenant's intention not to return to the dwelling unit;
      (2)   All persons entitled under a rental agreement to occupy the
dwelling unit have been absent from the unit for a period of 21 days or for one
rental period when the rental agreement is for less than a month, and such
persons have removed their personal property from the premises and rent for
that period is unpaid; or
      (3)   All persons entitled under a rental agreement to occupy the
dwelling unit have been absent for a period of 32 days and rent for that period
is unpaid.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above, abandonment of the dwelling unit shall not
be deemed to have occurred if any person entitled to occupancy has provided the
landlord a written notice indicating that he or she still intends to occupy the
unit and make full payments of all amounts due to the landlord.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.10  RENTAL AGREEMENT.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided by this chapter, no rental
agreement may provide that the landlord or tenant:
   (A)   Agrees to waive or forego rights, remedies or obligations provided
under this chapter;
   (B)   Authorizes any person to confess judgment on a claim arising out of
the rental agreement;
   (C)   Agrees to the limitation of any liability of the landlord or tenant
arising under law;
   (D)   Agrees to waive any written termination of tenancy notice or manner of
service thereof provided under state law or this chapter;
   (E)   Agrees to waive the right of any party to a trial by jury;
   (F)   Agrees that in the event of a lawsuit arising out of the tenancy the
tenant will pay the landlord's attorney's fees except as provided for by court
rules, statute or ordinance;
   (G)   Agrees that either party may cancel or terminate a rental agreement at
a different time or within a shorter time period than the other party, unless
such provision is disclosed in a separate written notice; or
   (H)   (1)   A provision prohibited by this section included in a rental
agreement is unenforceable.
      (2)   The tenant may recover actual damages sustained by the tenant
because of the enforcement of a prohibited provision.
      (3)   If the landlord attempts to enforce a provision in a rental
agreement prohibited by the section, the tenant may recover two months rent.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.11  PROHIBITION OF RETALIATORY CONDUCT BY LANDLORD.
   (A)   (1)   It is declared to be against public policy of the Village of
Calumet Park for a landlord to take retaliatory action against a tenant, except
for violation of a rental agreement or violation of a law or ordinance.
      (2)   A landlord may not knowingly terminate a tenancy, increase rent,
decrease services, bring or threaten to bring a lawsuit against a tenant for
possession or refuse to renew a lease or tenancy because the tenant has in good
faith:
         (a)   Complained of code violations applicable to the premises to a
competent governmental agency, elected representative or public official
charged with responsibility for enforcement of a building, housing, health or
similar code;
         (b)   Complained of a building, housing, health or similar code
violation or an illegal landlord practice to a community organization or the
news media;
         (c)   Sought the assistance of a community organization or the news
media to remedy a code violation or illegal landlord practice;
         (d)   Requested the landlord to make repairs to the premises as
required by a building code, health ordinance, other regulation, or the
residential rental agreement;
         (e)   Becomes a member of a tenant's union or similar organization;
         (f)   Testified in any court or administrative proceeding concerning
the condition of the premises; or
         (g)   Exercised any right or remedy provided by law.
   (B)   (1)   If the landlord acts in violation of the section, the tenant has
a defense in any retaliatory action against him or her for possession and is
entitled to the following remedies: he or she shall recover possession or
terminate the rental agreement and, in either case, recover an amount equal to
and not more than two-months' rent or twice the damages sustained by him or
her, whichever is greater, and reasonable attorney's fees.
      (2)   If the rental agreement is terminated, the landlord shall return
all security and interest and all prepaid rent.
      (3)   In an action by or against the tenant, if there is evidence of
tenant conduct protected herein within one year prior to the alleged act of
retaliation, that evidence shall create a rebuttable presumption that the
landlord's conduct was retaliatory. The presumption shall not arise if the
protected tenant activity was initiated after the alleged act of retaliation.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.12  INTERRUPTION OF TENANT OCCUPANCY BY LANDLORD.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any landlord or any person acting at his or
her direction knowingly to oust or dispossess or threaten or attempt to oust or
dispossess any tenant from a dwelling unit without authority of law:
         (a)   By plugging, changing, adding or removing any lock or latching
device;
         (b)   By blocking any entrance into the unit;
         (c)   By removing any door or window from the unit;
         (d)   By interfering with the services to said unit; including but not
limited to electricity, gas, hot or cold water, plumbing, heat or telephone
service; or by removing a tenant's personal property from the unit;
         (e)   By the removal or incapacitating of appliances or fixtures,
except for the purpose of making necessary repairs;
         (f)   By the use or threat of force, violence or injury to a tenant's
person or property; or
         (g)   By any act rendering a dwelling unit or any part thereof or any
personal property located therein inaccessible or uninhabitable.
      (2)   The foregoing shall not apply where:
         (a)   A landlord acts in compliance with the laws of Illinois
pertaining to forcible entry and detainer and engages the Sheriff of Cook
County to forcibly evict a tenant or his or her personal property;
         (b)   A landlord acts in compliance with the laws of Illinois
pertaining to distress for rent;
         (c)   A landlord interferes temporarily with possession only as
necessary to make needed repairs or inspection and only as provided by law; or
         (d)   The tenant has abandoned the dwelling unit.
   (B)   If a tenant in a civil legal proceeding against his or her landlord
establishes that a violation of this section has occurred he or she shall be
entitled to recover possession of his or her dwelling unit or personal property
and shall recover an amount equal to not more than two-months' rent or twice
the actual damages sustained by him or her, whichever is greater.
   (C)   A tenant may pursue any civil remedy for violation of this section
regardless of whether a fine has been entered against the landlord pursuant to
this section.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.13  PROCEDURES FOR LANDLORD-TENANT DISPUTES.
   A police officer assigned to a landlord-tenant dispute shall:
   (A)   Determine from the facts available whether the conduct complained of
constitutes a lockout as specified in the ordinance;
   (B)   Determine situations wherein a threatened attempt, or actual lockout
has occurred;
   (C)   Determine from the facts available that the premises involved is a
dwelling as defined in the ordinance;
   (D)   Determine from the facts available that the alleged offender is a
landlord and that the person residing at the location is a tenant as defined by
this chapter;
   (E)   Determine from the facts available that the conduct is not exempted
from the ordinance. Examples of exempt conduct includes instances wherein:
      (1)   A landlord has a court order for possession of the dwelling unit
and engages the Sheriff of Cook County to forcibly evict the tenant and his or
her personal property; or
      (2)   The landlord acting alone or through an agent or attorney complies
with the law pertaining to distress for rent by:
         (a)   Filing nothing in court prior to seizing the tenant's property;
         (b)   Filing a distress warrant (a warrant authorizing the seizure of
another's property to secure the performance of a duty of overdue rent stating
that rent is overdue);
         (c)   Serving the warrant on the tenant;
         (d)   Seizing the tenants property; or
         (e)   Filing a copy of the distress warrant and an inventory of the
property seized with the Clerk of the Circuit Court immediately after seizure.
   (F)   Instruct the offender (the landlord or his or her agent) to end the
threats or actual lockout immediately. This may include:
      (1)   Restoring the tenant(s) to the dwelling unit;
      (2)   Giving the tenant(s) keys to any new locks of the dwelling unit;
      (3)   Returning any of the tenant's property that was taken; and
      (4)   Turning on the utilities to the dwelling unit.
   (G)   If the offender complies with the officer's instructions, issues an
ordinance violation;
   (H)   If the offender refuses to comply with the officer's instructions,
affect an arrest;
   (I)   If the offender is not at or near the vicinity of the scene, the
officer should instruct the complainant to obtain an arrest warrant for the
offender; and
   (J)   When responding to a lockout complaint, the officer must complete a
miscellaneous inception case report with an event number or a case report if
applicable if a criminal offense has been committed.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whenever a complaint of violation of §
154.12 is received by the Calumet Park Police Department, the department shall
investigate and determine whether a violation has occurred. Any person found
guilty of violating §
154.12 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99, and each day that the violation shall occur or continue shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense for which a fine as herein provided shall be
imposed.
(Ord. 07-939, passed 6-14-2007; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
CHAPTER 155:  DWELLING PROVISIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
155.01   Board-up services
   
155.02   "For Sale" and "Sold" signs
   
155.03   Notification of intent to sell or rent
   
155.04   Driveways; construction and maintenance
   
155.05   Radio, television and the like, communication towers
   
155.06   Burglar bars
   
155.07   Permitting closed system water-cooled air conditioning equipment only
in new construction and remodeled structures
   
155.08   Fire alarm systems
   
155.09   Smoke detectors required
Hearing Procedures; Enforcement of Building, Housing and Zoning Violations
   
155.20   Adoption of state statute
   
155.21   Definitions
   
155.22   Code Hearing Department
   
155.23   Procedure of code hearing
   
155.24   Subpoenas
   
155.25   Default
   
155.26   Continuances and representation at code hearings
   
155.27   Evidence at hearings
   
155.28   Retaliatory action against occupants prohibited
   
155.29   Defenses to code violations
   
155.30   Findings, decision and order of Hearing Officer
   
155.31   Fines and sanctions
   
155.32   Administrative review law to apply
   
155.33   Disposition of violations
   
155.34   Sanctions and findings to run with property
Building Permits
   
155.45   When permit is required
   
155.46   Form of application
   
155.47   By whom application is made
   
155.48   Description of work
   
155.49   Plans and specifications
   
155.50   Plot diagram
   
155.51   Time limitation of application
   
155.52   Action on application
   
155.53   Signature to permit
   
155.54   Revocation of permits
   
155.55   Posting of permit
   
155.56   Payment of fees
   
155.57   Duration of permit
   
155.58   Compliance with permit
   
155.59   Special fees
   
155.60   New construction and alterations
   
155.61   Accounting
   
155.62   Bonds
   
155.63   Permits to include landscaping provisions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Presale inspection, see
Ch. 96
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.01  BOARD-UP SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Calumet Park Fire Department may contact private contractors to
properly secure residences or businesses and to protect then from exposure to
the elements. In the event that the property owner does not have a private
contractor that they wish to use, Calumet Park Fire Department shall contact a
private contractor on behalf of the property owner. Calumet Park Fire
Department assumes no financial liability with these private contractors for
any services rendered.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the private contractor to deal
directly with the property owner or their insurance company for payment for
services.
      (3)   Calumet Park Fire Department shall utilize only the private
contractors (Board-Up Services) who have met all of the following requirements
prior to any call of service.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   All board-up services shall be licensed contractors in the Village
of Calumet Park and with Cook County (unincorporated area of Calumet Park Fire
Department).
      (2)   All board-up services shall provide evidence of their local
licensing (as indicated above), bonding and insurance and shall be updated on
or about January 1 of each year.
      (3)   (a)   A listing of all current charges for services shall be
presented in writing to Calumet Park Fire Department and shall be updated on or
about January 1 of each year. This pricing guide shall be the only pricing used
on any incident in which Calumet Park Fire Department contacts the board-up
service.
         (b)   Board-up services shall not be allowed to offer any other
service to the property owner other than that service specifically contacted
for. No documents/contracts for general contracting or public adjusters shall
be presented or discussed when Calumet Park Fire Department has requested the
board-up service.
         (c)   Board-up services shall not arrive on the scene of an incident
unless specifically contacted by the emergency dispatch service for Calumet
Park Fire Department.
         (d)   Any board-up service that is on the scene of an incident prior
to being contacted by Calumet Park Fire Department will be removed from our
preferred vendor list and will not be contacted for board-up purposes in the
future.
         (e)   The Calumet Park Fire Department incident commander shall first
review all documents, which are to be presented to the property owner for
signature.
   (C)   Licensing requirements.
      (1)   Every contractor must present a copy of their state license or
certificate of registration.
      (2)   Every contractor shall present a certificate of insurance with a
minimum value of $500,000 and must name the Village of Calumet Park as the
insured.
      (3)   Every contractor must supply the Village of Calumet Park with a
bond certificate signed by the principal. All contractors who are licensed to
do business must file and keep in force during the license period. A bond in
the amount of $10,000 with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees,
conditioned to indemnify the Village of Calumet Park and hold it harmless from
any loss, damage, claim or liability arising out of or resulting from the
conduct or operation of the business.
(Ord. 04-845, passed 2-26-2004)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.02  "FOR SALE" AND "SOLD" SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed by the State of Illinois
or by any of its governmental subsections as "real estate brokers" to
construct, place, maintain or install a "for sale" sign, "sold" sign or "for
lease" sign of any shape, size or form on the premises located in the Village
of Calumet Park and vacant.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager, or agent of any land
located within the Village of Calumet Park and which is vacant to construct,
place, maintain or install a "for sale" sign or "sold" sign or "for lease"
sign.
   (C)   For purposes of this section and the signs mentioned above, those
signs are hereby defined to mean any structure, and all parts composing the
same, together with the frame, background or supports therefor which are used
for advertising or display purposes or any statuary, sculpture, molding or
casing used for advertising or display purposes, any flags, bunting or material
used for display purposes or advertising purposes, including, but not limited
to placards, cards, structures or areas carrying the following or similar
words: "For Sale", "For Lease", "Sold", "Will Build to Suit".
(Ord. 72-146, passed 3-23-1972)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03  NOTIFICATION OF INTENT TO SELL OR RENT.
   (A)   That all owners, agents, brokers or any individual or legal entity
having ownership or control of any residential property which is offered for
sale or rental within the Village of Calumet Park, must notify the Village
Clerk within five days after the first real estate listing agreement is
executed or within five days after first public notification of an intent to
sell or rent is made or published, whichever shall occur first. The
notification shall be in writing on a form made available at the office of the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   No residential property shall be sold or rented unless the owner or
lessor shall furnish the buyer or tenant with a certificate of compliance based
on an inspection of such property made within 15 days prior to the date of any
sale or tenancy. The certificate of compliance must state that the property
complies with all applicable building, zoning and other related regulations of
the village, including requirements for payment of water charges or any
services performed by the village, or, in the alternative, list the building,
zoning or other violations. In addition, the certificate of compliance must
indicate that payment in full has been received for all monies due the Village
of Calumet Park for water service, or any other services performed by the
village requiring payment by the property owner. No certificate of compliance
shall be issued until the provisions of this section have been met.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hereafter occupy, by purchase
or rental, lease or otherwise, or for any owner or agent thereof to permit the
occupation of any residential property or addition thereto, or part thereof,
for any purpose until a certificate of compliance has been issued by the
Building Commissioner. The certificate is required for each and every separate
occupancy and in the case of rental or lease, the certificate is required for
each new tenant.
   (D)   Each applicant for a certificate of compliance shall pay inspection
fees as follows: the inspection fee to be charged in connection with the sale
or rental of any residential property shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the inspection of any residential property consisting of fewer
than three units: $40;
      (2)   For the inspection of any residential property consisting of three
or more units at the time of the sale of the property: $35, plus $20 for each
unit in such residential property; and
      (3)   For the inspection of any residential property consisting of three
or more units in connection with the rental of the units: $25 per unit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false
statement in the notice of intent to sell or rent residential property.
(Ord. 94-639, passed 10-13-1994)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04  DRIVEWAYS; CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Driveway construction.
      (1)   Where driveways are to be built across the sidewalk or parkway
space, they shall be of concrete, six inches in depth.
      (2)   Work to be in the manner and materials to be of the quality and
proportions specified for Portland cement concrete streets.
   (B)   Permit. No person shall hereafter construct, repair or maintain a
driveway across a public sidewalk without first having obtained a permit
therefor from Village Clerk; provided, that no permit for a driveway more than
eight feet in width in districts zoned for residences and apartments, shall be
granted without approval by the Board of Trustees, nor shall any permit for a
driveway more than 16 feet in width in districts zoned for commercial or
industrial purposes be granted without approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Application for a permit for a driveway shall be made to the
Commissioner of Streets and Alleys and shall contain the name and address of
the person making application and the proposed location and dimensions of the
driveway.
      (2)   Plans and specifications of the driveway shall accompany the paid
application.
   (D)   Revocation of permits; removal of driveway. Permits required by this
section shall contain conditions providing as follows: that same be revoked by
the Mayor, or by an order duly passed by the Board of Trustees and signed by
the Mayor at any time without consent of the grantee, in which case the
authority and privileges granted shall thereupon cease and determine; that upon
the termination by revocation, expiration or otherwise of the authority, rights
and privileges granted by the permit, the driveway therein authorized shall be
removed and the sidewalk and parkway space where the same shall have been
located shall be restored to its proper condition to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner of Streets and Alleys, so that the portion of the sidewalk and
parkway space used for the driveway shall be safe for public travel and in the
same condition as the remaining portion of the sidewalk and parkway space, at
the sole expense of the grantee therein, without cost or expense of any king
whatsoever to the village; provided, that in the event of the failure, neglect
or refusal on the part of the grantee to remove the driveway when directed so
to do, the village may proceed to remove same and charge the expense thereof to
the grantee.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   The fees for issuance of driveway permits in all districts zoned
for residential use shall be $1 for each foot or fraction thereof in width.
      (2)   The fees for issuance of driveway permits in all districts zoned
for commercial use shall be the sum of $3 for each foot or fraction thereof in
width.
      (3)   The fees for issuance of driveway permits in all districts zoned
for industrial use shall be $5 for each foot or fraction thereof in width.
      (4)   There shall be an additional fee for driveway permits for that
portion of the proposed driveway between the curb and the property line, as
follows:
         (a)   Residential: $.12 per square foot;
         (b)   Commercial: $.30 per square foot; and
         (c)   Industrial: $.60 per square foot.
      (5)   No driveway permit will be issued if sidewalk is not in good
condition.
      (6)   Sidewalks will have to be replaced by owner securing driveway
permit.
   (F)   Inspection and repairs.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Streets and Alleys or
someone designated by him or her to annually inspect all driveways permitting
ingress or egress to or from property zoned and used for commercial and
industrial purposes, to assure the maintenance of the driveways free from
defects or obstructions likely to cause injury to persons.
      (2)   The Commissioner of Streets and Alleys shall also annually report
to the Village Clerk the names and addresses of all persons having driveways
permitting ingress and egress upon lots or parcels of land zoned and used for
commercial or industrial purposes.
      (3)   (a)   The report shall also contain information as to the number
and width of the driveways for each place of business.
         (b)   The grantee of a permit or the owner or occupant of any premises
where a driveway is maintained, shall at his or her own expense, make those
repairs to a defective driveway as the Commissioner of Streets and Alleys shall
direct.
   (G)   Location of driveways; corner lots.
      (1)   On corner lots no driveway shall be constructed nearer than ten
feet from the sidewalk abutting the lots, and running in the general direction
of the proposed driveway.
      (2)   Where no sidewalks are existing the proposed driveway shall not be
located nearer than ten feet from the sidewalk line as established or to be
established by the village.
   (H)   Revocation upon failure to comply. If any person obtaining or
possessing a permit under the terms of this section shall at any time fail or
neglect to comply with the provisions herein prescribed, then such permit may
be revoked by the Board of Trustees.
   (I)   Assigning permit. Any permit issued under this section may be assigned
provided written notice of the name and address of the assignee shall be given
the Village Clerk, and upon payment of a transfer fee of $.50 to the Village
Clerk.
   (J)   Driveways; grade and width at curb. The grade of driveways and the
radii of the sides of the driveways at the curb and the mix for the concrete in
the construction of driveways shall be in accordance with the drawings and
specifications on file in the office of the Commissioner of Streets and Alleys
and hereby adopted and made a part of this section as if set out at length
herein.
(Ord. 66-17, passed 2-25-1966)
§ 155.05  RADIO, TELEVISION AND THE LIKE, COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   (A)   (1)   The installation or construction of any radio tower, television
or cable tower, or any other communication tower in any residential area of the
Village of Calumet Park is hereby prohibited.
      (2)   A TOWER for purposes of this section is defined as any structure
over 15 feet tall that is detached from the residence.
      (3)   The provisions contained in this section are not applicable to
television antennas attached to the residence, amateur radio antennas 15 feet
or less in height, and satellite dishes, provided the satellite dishes comply
with the requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   No satellite dish shall be installed, constructed, erected or
maintained in the Village of Calumet Park unless its owner shall have received
a permit issued by the village.
      (2)   The permit required by this section shall be issued upon
application at the Village Hall and upon the payment of an annual fee of $25.
      (3)   The permit shall not be issued without the approval of the Building
Commissioner and/or his or her designated agent.
(Ord. 94-626, passed 3-24-1994)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06  BURGLAR BARS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any residential structure,
or portion thereof, to install or permit the installation of any burglar bar or
bars, cage, grill, gate or other similar device on or over any window, door or
other similar opening in any residential structure in such a manner as to
prevent the quick and ready removal of the burglar bar or bars, cage, grill,
gate or other similar device without the use of tools or the operation of a
combination or key lock.
(Ord. 84-420, passed 4-3-1984)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07  PERMITTING CLOSED SYSTEM WATER-COOLED AIR CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT ONLY
IN NEW CONSTRUCTION AND REMODELED STRUCTURES.
   In all new construction and in all repair and/or replacement of structures
wherein air conditioning equipment and/or devices are to be located, only
closed system water cooled air conditioning equipment shall be allowed.
(Ord. 81-348, passed 5-14-1981)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08  FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MULTI-UNIT BUILDINGS.  Apartment buildings containing more than two units
for occupancy by families.
   (B)   (1)   Every multi-unit structure as defined herein, including hotels
and motels, shall install therein an approved supervised fire detection,
products of combustion system in each unit and at the top of each stairway and
exitway.
      (2)   The detector shall be sensitive to any of the products of
combustion except that detectors sensitive to heat only are not acceptable.
      (3)   Fire alarms annunciator panels shall be provided at such locations
as required by the Fire Chief of the Village of Calumet Park.
      (4)   Alarm signaling devices shall be clearly audible to all occupants
of the building.
   (C)   Every building constructed for non-residential occupancies over 5,000
square feet in area, shall have installed therein an approved fire detection
system in accordance with the standards for the system as established by the
National Fire Protection Association.
   (D)   The aforesaid detector devices must be installed on or before 180 days
after the effective date of this section.
   (E)   The premises affected by this section shall be allowed to be inspected
at least once a year by the Village of Calumet Park
(Ord. 78-277, passed 4-27-1978)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09  SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING.  Residential unit designed or used for two or
more family units or designed or used for sleeping accommodations other than
family units. MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLINGS shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Apartment buildings;
         (b)   Lodging houses;
         (c)   Boarding houses;
         (d)   Motels;
         (e)   Clubs;
         (f)   Rectories;
         (g)   Convents;
         (h)   Rooming houses;
         (i)   Dormitories;
         (j)   Senior citizen housing; and
         (k)   Hotels.
      RESIDENTIAL UNITS.  Buildings or parts thereof, designed or used for one
or more family units or designed or used for sleeping accommodations other than
family units.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  Residential unit designed or used for not more
than one family unit.
   (B)   All single family and multiple family dwellings shall be equipped with
approved smoke detectors in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Not less than one approved smoke detector shall be installed in
every single-family dwelling and multiple family dwelling unit as defined
herein.
      (2)   The detector shall be installed on the ceiling and at least six
inches from any wall or on a wall located from six to 12 inches from the
ceiling, and within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping purposes, with not
less than one detector per level, containing a habitable room or unenclosed
heating plant.
   (D)   All multiple family dwellings as defined herein shall contain not less
than one approved smoke detector at the uppermost ceiling of all interior
stairwells and one smoke detector in the basement level. All approved smoke
detectors herein required shall be installed on the ceiling, at least six
inches from the wall or on a wall located from six to 12 inches from the
ceiling.
   (E)   (1)   All approved smoke detectors herein required shall be either the
ionization chamber or the photoelectric type and shall comply with all the
specifications of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. Standard UL 217 (Standard
for Safety-Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors) 2nd Edition October 4,
1978 as revised May 19, 1983.
      (2)   Detectors shall bear the label of a nationally recognized standards
testing laboratory that indicates that the smoke detectors have been tested and
listed under the requirements of UL 217 2nd Edition October 4, 1978 as revised
May 19, 1983.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove batteries or in any way
make inoperable smoke detectors as provided for in this section, except that
this provision shall not apply to any building owner or manager or his or her
agent in the normal procedure of replacing batteries.
   (G)   shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this section.
   (H)   Nothing herein contained shall create any right or cause of action in
any person nor any special duty in the village.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall upon conviction thereof be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during, or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 86-458, passed 4-1-1986)
HEARING PROCEEDINGS; ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING, HOUSING AND ZONING VIOLATIONS
§ 155.20  ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE.
   The Village of Calumet Park hereby adopts and incorporates as part of this
subchapter, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq., in its present form and
as it may be amended from time to time and as allowed by the statute.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  A full-time or part-time village employee whose duties
include the inspection or examination of structures or property in the village
to determine if zoning or other code violations exist. The term BUILDING
INSPECTOR includes, but is not limited to, the plumbing inspector, the
Electrical Inspector, the House and Safety Inspector and the Building
Commissioner.
   CODE.  Any village ordinance, law, housing, building code or zoning
ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable
to structures in the village.
   HEARING OFFICER.  A village employee or an officer or agent of the village,
other than a property inspector or law enforcement officer, whose duty it is
to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from the property inspector, the
building owner and all interested parties relevant to the existence of a code
violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists.
   PROPERTY OWNER.  The legal or beneficial owner of a structure.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.22  CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the Village of Calumet Park a Code
Hearing Department the function of which is to expedite the presentation and
correction of Code violations in the manner set out in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§
11-31.1-1 et seq. and the ordinance.
   (B)   The adoption of this subchapter does not preclude the village from
using other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of its code.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.23  PROCEDURE OF CODE HEARING.
   (A)   When a Building Inspector finds a code violation while inspecting a
property, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation
notice and report form, indicating the name and address of the property owner,
the type and nature of the violation, the date and time the violation was
observed, the names of witnesses to the violation, and the address of the
property where the violation is observed.
   (B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded by the Building Inspector
to the Code Hearing Department where a docket number shall be stamped on all
copies of the report, and a hearing date noted in the blank spaces provided for
that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than 30 days nor
more than 40 days after the violation is reported by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the Code Hearing Department and shall be part of the record of hearing, one
copy of the report form shall be returned to the Building Inspector so that he
or she may prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the
hearing on the date indicated, and one copy of the report form shall be served
by first class mail on the property owner along with a summons commanding the
property owner to appear at the hearing.
      (1)   If the village. (If the village in which the property is situated
has an ordinance requiring property owners to register with the village,
service may be made on the property owner by mailing the report and summons to
the property owner's address registered with the village.)
      (2)   If the name of the property owner of the structure cannot be
ascertained or if service on the property owner cannot be made by mail, service
may be made on the property owner by posting or nailing a copy of the violation
report form on the front door of the structure where the violation is found,
not less than 20 days before the hearing is scheduled.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.24  SUBPOENAS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date the hearing officer assigned to hear
the case may, at the request of any inspector, the attorney for the village, or
the property owner or his or her attorney, issue subpoenas directing witnesses
to appear and give testimony at the hearing.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.25  DEFAULT.
   If on the date set for hearing the property owner or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the property owner in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.26  CONTINUANCES AND REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS.
   (A)   No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in
proceedings under this subchapter except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the owner.
   (B)   Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance.
   (C)   Any continuance authorized by a hearing officer under this division
shall not exceed 25 days.
   (D)   The case for the village may be presented by the Building Inspector,
by any other village employee or by an attorney designated by the village.
   (E)   However, in no event shall the case for the village be presented by an
employee of the Code Hearing Department.
   (F)   The case for the property owner may be presented by the owner, his or
her attorney, or any other agent or representative.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.27  EVIDENCE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of
a code violation relating to a property or structure indicated.
   (B)   The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall
not apply to hearings authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.28  RETALIATORY ACTION AGAINST OCCUPANTS PROHIBITED.
   No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer
or other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an
occupant of a dwelling solely because the occupant agrees to testify or
testifies at a code violation hearing.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.29  DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a defense to a code violation charge under this subchapter if
the property owner, his or her attorney, or any other agent or representative
proves to the hearing officer's satisfaction that:
   (A)   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or at
the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or removed;
   (B)   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the property owner to maintain the
dwelling free of the violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations; and
   (C)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
property owner or his or her agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the
purpose of correcting the code violation.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.30  FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER OF HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearing the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether or
not a code violation exists.
   (B)   (1)   The determination shall be in writing and shall be designated as
findings, decision and order.
      (2)   The findings, decision and order shall include the hearing
officer's finding of fact, a decision whether or not a code violation exists
based upon the findings of facts, and an order ordering the property owner to
correct the violation or dismissing the case in the event a violation is not
proved.
      (3)   If a code violation is proved, the order may also impose the
sanctions that are provided in the code for the violation proved.
      (4)   A copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served on the
property owner within five days after they are issued; service shall be in the
same manner as the report form and summons are served pursuant to §
155.23(C) above.
      (5)   Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money
shall be in the same manner as set forth in the code, unless the corporate
authorities adopting the division provide otherwise.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.31  FINES AND SANCTIONS.
   The village adopts by reference all current and future local ordinances, and
those provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq., governing
property or zoning codes applicable to structures or properties relative to
construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation and
other health and safety standards the village, for its enforcement and
adjudication within the geographical boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.32  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW TO APPLY.
   The findings, decision and order of the hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of Cook County, and the provisions of the
administrative review law (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.), and all
amendments and modifications thereto, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto
are adopted and shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review
of the final findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.33  DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the administrative review
law shall be a debt due and owing the village and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   After expiration of the period within judicial review under the
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the code
violation, the village may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court for
purposes of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision and order.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the village from
consolidating multiple findings, decisions and orders against a person in such
a proceeding.
      (3)   Upon commencement of the action, the village shall file a certified
copy of the findings, decision and order, which shall be accompanied by a
certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings, decision
and order was issued in accordance with this subchapter and applicable state
law.
      (4)   Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be by any
method provided by the Code of Civil Procedure, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203 or
by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amounts of
fines, other sanctions and costs imposed by the findings, decision and order
does not exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
§ 155.34  SANCTIONS AND FINDINGS TO RUN WITH PROPERTY.
   (A)   The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the
village as the result of a finding of a code violation under this subchapter
shall attach to the property as well as to the property owner so that a finding
of a code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or
transferring the property to another owner.
   (B)   Any subsequent transferee or owner of property takes subject to the
findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under this subchapter.
(Ord. 96-675, passed 4-25-1996)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 155.45  WHEN PERMIT IS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, enlarge, alter, remove or demolish, or
change the occupancy of a building from one use group to another requiring
greater strength, exit or sanitary provisions; or to change to a prohibited use
without first filing an application with the Building Department in writing and
obtaining the required permit therefor.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.46  FORM OF APPLICATION.
   The application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the Board of
Trustees may prescribe to the Building Department and shall be accompanied by
the required fee as prescribed in §
155.56 below.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.47  BY WHOM APPLICATION IS MADE.
   Application for a permit shall be made by the owner or lessee of the
building or structure, or agent of either, or by the licenses structural
engineer or architect employed in connection with the proposed work.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.48  DESCRIPTION OF WORK.
   The application shall contain a general description of the proposed work,
its location, the use and occupancy of all parts of the building or structure
and of all portions of the site or lot not covered by the building, and such
additional information as may be required by the Board of Trustees or the
Building Department.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.49  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The application for the permit shall be accompanied by two copies of
specifications and of plans drawn to scale, with sufficient clarity and detail
dimensions to show the nature and character of the work to be performed.
   (B)   The Building Department may waive the requirement for filing plans
when the work involved is of a minor nature.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.50  PLOT DIAGRAM.
   There shall also he or she filed a plot plan showing to scale the size and
location of all the new construction and all existing structures on the site,
distances from lot lines and the established street grades; and it shall be
drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.51  TIME LIMITATION OF APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have
been abandoned six months after date of filing, unless the application has been
diligently prosecuted or a permit shall have been issued; the Board of Trustees
upon recommendation of the Funding Department may grant an additional 90-day
extension of time.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.52  ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Building Department shall examine all applications for permits and
amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the application or
the plans do not conform to the requirements of all pertinent laws, they shall
reject the application in writing stating the reasons therefor.
   (B)   If they are satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the
requirements of the Building Code and all laws and ordinances applicable
thereto, they shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.53  SIGNATURE TO PERMIT.
   The Chairperson and/or other member of the Building Department shall attach
their signatures to every permit.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.54  REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The Building Department may revoke a permit or approval issued under the
provisions of the Building Code in case of any false statement or
misrepresentation of fact in the application or on the plans in which the
permit or approval was based.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.55  POSTING OF PERMIT.
   A true copy of the building permit shall be kept on the site of operations
open to public inspection during the entire time of prosecution of the work and
until the completion of the same.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.56  PAYMENT OF FEES.
   No permit shall be issued until the fees prescribed in §
155.60 below have been paid.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.57  DURATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall be deemed to have been abandoned one year after its issuance
unless the proposed work shall have been completed; the Board of Trustees, upon
the recommendation of the Building Department, may grant an extension of time
sufficient to complete the proposed improvement.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.58  COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   (A)   All work shall conform to the approved application and plans for which
the permit has been issued and any approved amendments thereto.
   (B)   All new work shall be located strictly in accordance with the approved
plot plan.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.59  SPECIAL FEES.
   The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or
demolition and for all work done in connection with or concurrently with the
work contemplated by a building permit shall not relieve the applicant or
holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that may be prescribed by
law or ordinance for water taps, sewer connections, electrical permits,
erection of signs and display structures, marquees or other appurtenant
structures, or fees for inspections, certificates of use and occupancy or other
privileges or requirements, both within and without the jurisdiction of the
Department of Building Inspection.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.60  NEW CONSTRUCTION AND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring a building permit shall, at the time of filing
application therefor, pay to the Village Clerk, the fee required by this
section.
   (B)   For new construction, additions, demolition, repairs to existing
buildings the schedule of fees is as follows.
 
Cost of Construction Fee
$0 to $199.99        $25
$200 to $499.99      $30
$500 to $999.99      $40
$1,000 to $4,999.99  $75
$5,000 to $50,000    3% of contract amount
$50,000 and over     $12 per 1,000
 
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979; Ord. 00-739A, passed 7-27-2000)
§ 155.61  ACCOUNTING.
   The Village Clerk shall keep an accurate account of all fees collected for
building permits; and the fees collected by the Village Clerk shall be
deposited monthly with the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.62  BONDS.
   (A)   In addition to any other fees, whenever the cost value of the proposed
improvement is in excess of $2,000, there shall be deposited with the Village
Treasurer the sum of $400 to be held by him or her as follows:
      (1)   Until the building or structure has been completed;
      (2)   Until all damages, if any, caused by said construction or
remodeling, to any street, curb, sidewalk, alley and all other city and public
property has been repaired and rectified; and
      (3)   Until the premised on which said building or structure was
constructed has been restored to a safe condition. The Building Department may
require an additional bond, at their discretion, whenever the cost value of the
proposed construction or improvement is in excess of $10,000 but in no event
shall a bond he or she required in excess of 5% of the cost value.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Department shall inspect the construction or
improvement and inform the permit holder of any failure to abide by the terms
and conditions of this section and the bond required herein.
      (2)   The violations must be corrected within 30 days of the notice;
otherwise, the violations may be corrected by the Village of Calumet Park and
the cost shall be deducted from any bond that has been posted or, in the
alternative, the village may recover the cost incurred by appropriate legal
proceedings against the permit holder or his or her surety.
(Ord. 79-318, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 155.63  PERMITS TO INCLUDE LANDSCAPING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In all cases, whenever a building permit, required under the
ordinances of the Village of Calumet Park, is requested for the erection or
construction of any building or structure, including commercial, industrial or
residential, no such building permit, or other permit, shall be issued by the
Building Department of the Village of Calumet Park unless the plans submitted
for approval by the Building Department include a provision acceptable to the
Building Department for landscaping upon completion of the contemplated
construction work. The foregoing requirement shall not be applicable to the
issuance of a building permit without a landscaping plan if the Building
Department determines that no external architectural feature is involved in the
work for which the building permit is sought.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to determine,
from time to time as the project is in progress and finally upon its
completion, that there have been no substantial unauthorized deviations from
the landscaping plan upon which the original permit was granted.
      (2)   Any substantial unauthorized deviation may be cause for the
Building Inspector to halt construction of a project which is not in accordance
with the landscaping plan submitted with the permit application.
      (3)   If a project is otherwise completed, but some phase of the
landscaping plan has not yet been completed, a developer/contractor may deposit
sufficient funds in escrow to complete the landscaping and obtain a temporary
certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 95-653, passed 5-11-1995)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
155.01 shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and shall be punished
by a fine pursuant to §
10.99. If a violation continues, each day in violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
155.45 through
155.62 shall be punished by a fine pursuant to §
10.99. Each day any violation of any provision of §§
155.45 through
155.62 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Every person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any
provisions of §
155.02 shall be punished by a fine pursuant to §
10.99 for each day that person is guilty of violating the provisions of this
section.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of §
155.03 or who refuses to remedy a violation found to exist and reported on the
certificate of compliance within the time therein specified, shall be fined
pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation of §
155.03 occurs or continues.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate a provision of §
155.05, or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, shall be
liable for a fine pursuant to §
10.99. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of §
155.06 shall be subject to a fine pursuant to §
10.99 for each separate offense. Each day an offense is committed shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
155.07 shall upon conviction be fined pursuant to §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day, during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of any violation of any of
the provisions of §
155.08 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each such offense. Each day an offense is committed shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (J)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of §
155.63, shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense.
      (2)   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 72-146, passed 3-23-1972; Ord. 78-277, passed 4-27-1978; Ord. 79-318,
passed 12-13-1979; Ord. 81-348, passed 5-14-1981; Ord. 84-420, passed 4-3-1984;
Ord. 94-626, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 94-639, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. 95-653,
passed 5-11-1995; Ord. 04-845, passed 2-26-2004; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-
2020)
CHAPTER 156:  SPILLER PAYS ORDINANCE
Section
   
156.01   Adoption by reference
§ 156.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Spiller Pays Ordinance, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 97-695, passed 8-14-1997)
CHAPTER 157:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
157.01   Adoption by reference
§ 157.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 89-517, passed 6-29-1989)
CHAPTER 158:  ZONING
Section
   
158.01   Adoption by reference
§ 158.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 72-155, passed 10-5-1972; Ord. 76-241, passed 6-24-1976; Ord. 77-273,
passed 10-27-1977; Ord. 81-367, passed 9-10-1981; Ord. 89-527, passed 9-28-
1989; Ord. 01-773, passed 11-20-2001; Ord. 01-774, passed 11-20-2001; Ord. 04-
856, passed 9-9-2004; Ord. 17-1182, passed 9- 14-2017; Ord. 19-1228, passed 12-
12-2019; Ord. 20-1242, passed 11-12-2020)
CHAPTER 159:  FIRE INSPECTIONS OF RENTAL UNITS
Section
   
159.01   Inspections of rental units
   
159.02   Types of units
   
159.03   Certificates of inspection
   
159.04   Revocation of certificate
   
159.05   Inspection fees
   
159.06   Fire prevention codes
   
159.07   Collection of charges
 
   
159.99   Penalty
§ 159.01  INSPECTIONS OF RENTAL UNITS.
   Inspections shall be done of all rental units within the corporate limits of
the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 159.02  TYPES OF UNITS.
   Rental units are to include but not limited to:
   (A)   All apartment dwellings.
   (B)   All rental homes.
   (C)   All hotel, motel units.
   (D)   All business units.
   (E)   All garage units.
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 159.03  CERTIFICATES OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspections shall be done at least once in a twelve-month period and
issued a certificate of inspection, which will expire 12 months after issue.
This shall be issued from the Fire Department. All
fees must be paid before this certificate shall be issued.
   (B)   Inspections for the following shall be done every 12 months or after
and before tenants occupy the rental units.
      (1)   All apartment dwellings.
      (2)   All rental homes.
      (3)   All business units.
      (4)   All garage units..
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 159.04  REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Certificates of Inspection shall be revoked at any time if a problem occurs
and it is not satisfactorily corrected within a reasonable amount of time.
Usually 30 days.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall make this determination.
   (B)   If violation is still not corrected, the Fire Chief shall revoke the
certificate and issue a written citation for not less than $75 and not more
than $750. Each day that this violation exists shall be considered a separate
violation.
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 159.05  INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Inspection fees.
      (1)   Apartment units: $50 each.
      (2)   Rental homes: $50 each.
      (3)   Rental garage: $50 each.
      (4)   Rental business: $50 each.
      (5)   Hotel/motel: $50 each.
   (B)   These fees shall be for the initial inspection and one follow-up
inspection.
   (C)   If more inspections are required, and additional inspection fee of
half of the original fee shall be added, per inspection.
   (D)   All fees shall be paid before a certificate shall be issued.
   (E)   All inspections shall be conducted during regular business hours
Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
   (F)   Inspections that are needed outside regular business hours shall
require an additional inspection fee of one and a half times the original fee,
which must be paid before a certificate shall be issued.
   (G)   All funds shall be made payable to the Village of Calumet Park.
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 159.06  FIRE PREVENTION CODES.
   All inspections shall conform to the Village of Calumet Park Fire Prevention
Codes.
   (A)   All residential inspections shall include apartment dwellings, rental
homes, and hotel and motel units.
   (B)   Inspections shall include but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Smoke detectors, CO detectors (where any fossil fuels are used).
      (2)   Walls have no holes, peeling paint, and the like.
      (3)   Plumbing: Water working in sinks, toilets, tubs, showers and have
proper drainage.
      (4)   Windows shall be working properly, no broken glass and screens in
place without holes.
      (5)   Doors present and properly working with locks.
      (6)   Appliances in working order (if present).
      (7)   Electrical working properly, includes light fixtures, switches and
outlets.
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 159.07  COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   The Chief of the Calumet Park Fire Department shall be responsible for the
collection of any charges due pursuant to the preceding sections and may take
such actions as he deems necessary to collect such charges, as well as all
reasonable costs and attorney's fees necessary for the collection of such
charges. All monies collected by the Chief of the Calumet Park Fire Department
pursuant to this section shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer within
seven days of receipt.
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 159.99  PENALTY.
    Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during, or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 12-1071, passed 12-13-2012; Ord. 20-1236, passed 5-28-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[RESERVED]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Reference Code Section
ILCS Reference                      Code Section
Division 74.2                       31.062
Division 74.3                       31.062
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                 10.04
Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq. 10.02
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.    33.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 5-15           33.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10  et seq.33.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10–10-40  33.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5             33.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5             33.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)          33.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)          33.04
Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.    37.15
Ch. 43                              112.31
Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.      120.05,
                                    120.06
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.     34.41
Ch. 50. Act 705, § 6.1             34.42
Ch. 50, Act 720, §§ 1 et seq.     34.45
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005            130.02
Ch. 56 1/2, § 701                  133.01
Ch. 56 1/2, § 1100                 133.01
Ch. 65, Act 5                       10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq.   153.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2             10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1             10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1           10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-10      32.08
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.       151.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2            36.42
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-23           123.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-6          34.42
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10             32.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-1           32.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-2           32.07
                                    155.20;
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq155.22;
                                    155.31
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-10              33.28
Ch. 205, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.      31.043
Ch. 220, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.  36.41,
                                    37.46
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105            36.41
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)        120.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401           120.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401(b)(6)     120.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801           120.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b)        120.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi) 120.01
Ch. 225, Act 330, § 3              51.41
Ch. 225, Act 454                    93.03
Ch. 227, Act 447, §§ 5-3 et seq.  130.02
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.     110.05
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 3-12             112.03
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-27             112.03
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-3 et seq.    112.01
Ch. 255, Act 325, §§ 1 et seq.    151.02
Ch. 255, Act 330, §§ 1 et seq.    151.02
Ch. 310, Act 55, §§ 1 et seq.     96.50
Ch. 310, Act 55, § 7               96.50
Ch. 405, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.     119.05
Ch. 415, Act 5                      31.035
Ch. 425, Act 30, § 3               131.02
Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 et seq.  34.42;
                                    130.02
Ch. 430, Act 65, § 1 et seq.       135.16
Ch. 430, Act 65, § 1.1             131.02
Ch. 430, Act 66, § 1 et seq.       135.16
Ch. 430, Act 66, § 65(a)(5)        135.16
Ch. 520, Act 5, § 3.1              131.99
Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.      151.02
Ch. 615, Act 5, § 18(g)            151.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, Article 25          71.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132            71.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188            10.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-208            130.02
                                    36.02;
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5          36.05;
                                    71.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3         36.02;
                                    36.04
                                    36.04,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306           71.01,
                                    71.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306(c)        71.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6206.5           36.05
                                    110.05,
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1             131.02 ,
                                    135.16
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq.   130.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1)       121.14
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3(a)          131.99
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1(1)        131.99
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.3           131.99
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 83-2 et seq.   131.99
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.    130.02
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 1 et seq.    130.02
Ch. 725, Act 210, §§ 1 et seq.    130.02
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203            155.33
                                    121.16;
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.  153.13;
                                    155.32
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq. 36.08
Ch. 765, Act 20, § 2               151.10
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
80-324          - -         115.02
87-471          - -         152.06
01-764          - -         119.99
1956-0727, #461 7-27-1956   70.05
1957-0426       4-26-1957   70.06
1957-1025, #2   10-25-1957  70.05
1958-0711       7-11-1958   70.05
1958-0926       9-26-1958   70.06
1960-0513       5-13-1960   70.02
1960-0510       6-10-1960   33.30
1960-0914       9-14-1960   90.63;
                            90.99
1960-0923       9-23-1960   92.02;
                            92.99
1961-0127       1-27-1961   33.27
1961-0512, #502 5-12-1961   32.04
1961-0714, #506 7-14-1961   70.05
1961-0714, #507 7-14-1961   70.06
1961-0714, #508 7-14-1961   70.05
1961-0825       8-25-1961   70.05
1961-1110, #516 11-10-1961  70.06
1962-0727       7-27-1962   70.05
1963-011        1-11-1963   70.05
1963-0614       6-14-1963   70.05
1963-1011       10-11-1963  70.06
1963-1025       10-25-1963  70.05
1963-1025, #2   10-25-1963  70.05
1963-1025, #3   10-25-1963  70.05
64-5-1          5-22-1964   130.04;
                            130.99
1964-0522       5-22-1964   33.26
1964-1028, #1   10-28-1964  70.05
1964-1028, #2   10-28-1964  70.05
1964-1209, #2   12-9-1964   70.06
1964-1209, #3   12-9-1964   70.06
65-1            6-11-1965   70.05
65-4            10-8-1965   70.05
65-5            10-8-1965   70.05
65-7            10-8-1965   70.05
65-8            10-8-1965   70.05
65-9            10-8-1965   70.05
65-10           10-8-1965   70.05
65-11           10-8-1965   70.05
65-12           10-8-1965   70.05
65-13           10-8-1965   70.05
65-15           1-28-1966   70.05
66-14           1-28-1966   70.06
66-17           2-25-1966   155.04
66-718          2-25-1966   152.05
67-43           2-24-1967   70.06
67-46           7-28-1967   70.05
67-51           11-10-1967  70.05
67-52           11-10-1967  70.06
68-55           2-9-1968    70.06
68-59           4-26-1968   70.06
68-61           4-26-1968   37.99
68-68           7-12-1968   33.01
68-75           9-13-1968   70.01
68-83           12-13-1968  70.06
68-84           12-13-1968  70.06
69-88           12-28-1968  34.15–
                            34.26
69-85           2-7-1969    70.06
69-97           7-16-1969   34.16
69-99           7-16-1969   70.05
69-101          7-16-1969   111.03
69-105          7-23-1969   33.25
69-106          8-20-1969   34.16;
                            34.17
69-110          10-15-1969  70.05
69-111          11-5-1969   70.05
70-117          5-28-1970   31.001
70-122          9-24-1970   70.05
70-123          10-8-1970   70.06
71-126          1-28-1971   114.02;
                            114.99
71-131          3-25-1971   152.05
71-128          5-11-1971   152.04
71-132          5-27-1971   32.11
71-137          7-8-1971    70.05
71-140          10-14-1971  51.01–
                            51.23
71-142          11-24-1971  70.06
72-144          1-13-1972   51.23
72-146          3-23-1972   155.02;
                            155.99
72-152          9-28-1972   33.22
72-155          10-5-1972   158.01
72-157          11-9-1972   152.05
73-158          1-11-1973   32.03
73-159          1-11-1973   33.21
73-160          2-8-1973    70.05
73-163          4-12-1973   70.05
73-176          11-8-1973   70.02
74-185          4-4-1974    32.01
74-187          4-11-1974   70.01
74-190          6-13-1974   70.01
74-198          8-9-1974    70.05
74-202          12-12-1974  70.06
75-203          2-27-1975   111.04;
                            111.99
75-207          3-27-1975   152.06
                            110.20–
75-210          5-22-1975   110.29;
                            110.99
75-214          6-12-1975   34.03
75-255          12-23-1975  70.05
75-231          3-11-1976   32.02
76-232          3-25-1976   37.15–
                            37.26
76-234          3-25-1976   32.09
76-236          5-27-1976   70.05
76-241          6-24-1976   158.01
76-248          9-9-1976    33.02
76-249          9-9-1976    32.02
                            93.01–
76-250          9-9-1976    93.08;
                            93.99
                            52.25–
76-252          9-23-1976   52.30;
                            52.99
76-254          10-14-1976  70.05
77-261          6-23-1977   111.02;
                            111.99
77-270          9-22-1977   70.05
                            118.01–
77-271          10-13-1977  118.18;
                            118.99
77-272          10-13-1977  93.03;
                            93.04
77-273          10-27-1977  158.01
77-274          11-22-1977  50.02;
                            50.99
77-275          12-22-1977  70.05
78-277          4-27-1978   155.08;
                            155.99
78-278          5-11-1978   152.06
78-281          6-18-1978   70.05
78-289          9-14-1978   30.02
78-291          12-14-1978  111.01;
                            111.99
79-292          2-8-1979    70.06
79-296          6-28-1979   70.05
79-303          7-30-1979   70.05
79-305          7-30-1979   50.01;
                            50.99
79-306          7-30-1979   90.61;
                            90.99
79-307          8-23-1979   33.23
79-311          9-27-1979   70.06
                            155.45–
79-318          12-13-1979  155.62;
                            155.99
80-325          4-10-1980   30.01
80-327          5-8-1980    70.05
80-335          7-10-1980   70.06
80-336          7-10-1980   50.01;
                            50.99
80-341          12-11-1980  70.06
81-342          1-22-1981   70.06
81-344          4-9-1981    33.03
81-348          5-14-1981   155.07;
                            155.99
81-349          6-11-1981   70.05
81-350          6-11-1981   70.06
81-351          6-25-1981   70.05
81-358          7-9-1981    152.06
81-359          7-9-1981    152.05
81-360          7-9-1981    152.02
81-367          9-10-1981   158.01
81-368          9-10-1981   70.05
81-371          10-8-1981   70.05
81-373          10-22-1981  90.62,
                            90.99
81-374          10-22-1981  31.035–
                            31.045
81-377          12-10-1981  36.29
                            95.01–
81-379          12-22-1981  95.11;
                            95.99
82-383          3-11-1982   92.03;
                            92.99
82-384          3-25-1982   70.05
                            52.01–
82-386          3-25-1982   52.11;
                            52.99
                            133.01;
82-387          4-22-1982   133.02;
                            133.99
82-388          6-10-1982   152.04
82-396          9-23-1982   35.01
82-399          11-11-1982  33.24
                            116.01–
82-400          11-11-1982  116.12;
                            116.99
83-401          1-13-1983   70.05
83-405          3-10-1983   31.060–
                            31.091
83-409          6-21-1983   111.02;
                            111.99
83-414          9-20-1983   70.06
84-418          1-3-1984    70.06
84-420          4-3-1984    155.06;
                            155.99
                            94.15–
84-422          4-17-1984   94.27;
                            94.99
84-425B         5-1-1984    70.03
                            117.01–
84-435          10-2-1984   117.14;
                            117.99
85-440          5-21-1985   152.06
86-458          4-1-1986    155.09
86-462          10-7-1986   36.28
86-463          12-2-1986   70.06
                            93.03;
87-467          2-3-1987    93.04;
                            93.99
87-469          2-3-1987    90.60;
                            90.99
87-473          3-3-1987    152.06
87-475          3-17-1987   152.05
87-476          3-17-1987   70.02
                            150.01–
87-477          4-6-1987    150.19;
                            150.99
87-478          6-2-1987    70.02
87-490          12-15-1987  112.01
87-491          12-15-1987  152.04
88-496          4-19-1988   70.02
                            90.45–
88-497          4-19-1988   90.50;
                            90.99
88-500          7-14-1988   34.02
                            90.30–
88-506          10-13-1988  90.32;
                            90.99
88-507          10-27-1988  70.01
89-517          6-29-1989   157.01
89-527          9-28-1989   158.01
89-530          9-28-1989   70.05
89-536          12-28-1989  70.05
90-539          1-25-1990   32.01
90-540          1-25-1990   32.02
90-543          4-12-1990   70.06
90-544          4-12-1990   70.06
90-546          5-24-1990   51.05
90-547          5-24-1990   152.05
90-552          6-28-1990   50.01;
                            50.99
91-561          3-14-1991   70.01
91-570          10-10-1991  70.05
91-577          12-26-1991  70.02
92-581          3-12-1992   51.35–
                            51.41
92-586          9-10-1992   32.06
93-592          1-28-1993   70.06
93-594          1-28-1993   92.04
93-595          1-28-1993   70.01
93-598          2-25-1993   36.27
93-599          3-25-1993   70.02
93-602          6-10-1993   36.29
93-604          6-24-1993   33.29
93-608          9-23-1993   152.06
93-609          9-23-1993   152.05
                            131.01;
93-610          9-23-1993   131.02;
                            131.99
93-614          10-14-1993  152.03
93-615          10-14-1993  152.02
93-616          10-28-1993  152.04
93-619          11-23-1993  70.06
94-626          3-24-1994   155.05;
                            155.99
94-627          4-14-1994   70.05
94-628          4-14-1994   70.02
                            90.15–
94-629          6-9-1994    90.19;
                            90.99
94-630          7-14-1994   70.05
94-631          7-14-1994   92.05;
                            92.99
94-632          7-14-1994   36.26
94-643          8-11-1994   70.05
                            131.15;
94-636          9-8-1994    131.17;
                            131.19;
                            131.99
94-637          10-13-1994  116.25;
                            116.99
94-638          10-13-1994  116.26;
                            116.99
94-639          10-13-1994  155.03;
                            155.99
94-640          10-13-1994  96.45–
                            96.53
95-647          1-26-1995   33.45–
                            33.50
95-649          4-13-1995   70.06
95-650          4-27-1995   70.06
95-651          4-27-1995   70.06
95-653          5-11-1995   155.63;
                            155.99
96-679          6-13-1995   70.02
96-680          6-13-1995   70.01
95-659          11-21-1995  130.02;
                            130.99
96-669          2-22-1996   36.25
                            112.65–
96-671          3-14-1996   112.79;
                            112.99
96-673          3-28-1996   95.25;
                            95.99
96-674          4-25-1996   70.06
96-675          4-25-1996   155.20–
                            155.34
96-682          6-13-1996   33.28
96-683          6-13-1996   70.04
96-690          11-14-1996  70.01
97-695          8-14-1997   156.01
97-697          9-11-1997   114.03;
                            114.99
98-705          3-12-1998   35.02;
                            35.99
98-707          4-23-1998   70.06
                            115.01–
98-708          5-14-1998   115.04;
                            115.99
                            36.01–
98-710          5-28-1998   36.10;
                            36.99
98-713          9-10-1998   70.01
98-714          9-10-1998   70.06
                            37.40–
99-722          4-22-1999   37.46;
                            37.99
99-725          6-10-1999   33.04
00-731          1-13-2000   70.03
00-732          1-13-2000   70.06
00-733          1-27-2000   32.07
00-734          1-27-2000   70.06
                            110.01–
00-735          3-23-2000   110.04;
                            110.99
00-736          4-13-2000   70.01
00-739A         7-27-2000   155.60
00-740          7-27-2000   152.06
00-741          8-10-2000   33.05
00-742          8-10-2000   152.02
00-744          9-14-2000   152.06
                            90.01–
00-746          9-14-2000   90.05;
                            90.99
00-747          10-12-2000  152.05
00-748          10-12-2000  152.04
00-749          10-12-2000  70.01
01-754          1-25-2001   111.01;
                            111.99
01-765          8-9-2001    90.64;
                            90.99
01-766          9-13-2001   92.01
01-771          11-20-2001  110.02
01-773          11-20-2001  158.01
01-774          11-20-2001  158.01
                            91.01–
02-792          - -2002     91.15;
                            91.99
02-776          1-10-2002   130.01;
                            130.99
02-778          2-14-2002   111.04;
                            111.99
02-780          2-28-2002   52.01
                            90.16;
02-783          3-14-2002   90.18;
                            90.19;
                            90.99
03-827          10-23-2002  70.01
02-798          10-24-2002  70.01
02-799          10-24-2002  92.06;
                            92.99
02-801          11-14-2002  112.02
02-804          11-26-2002  90.20;
                            90.99
02-805          11-26-2002  70.01
02-806          12-12-2002  130.03;
                            130.99
03-812          2-13-2003   92.07;
                            92.99
03-817          6-12-2003   51.20
03-818          6-12-2003   110.05
03-824          8-14-2003   70.05
03-832          11-13-2003  70.06
                            113.01–
03-835          11-25-2003  113.03;
                            113.99
03-836          12-11-2003  33.29
04-838          1-8-2004    114.01;
                            114.99
04-841          1-22-2004   33.20
04-837          1-28-2004   70.06
                            112.50–
04-843          2-12-2004   112.53;
                            112.99
                            52.45–
04-844          2-26-2004   52.48;
                            52.99
04-845          2-26-2004   155.01;
                            155.99
04-846          4-8-2004    33.20
04-849          5-13-2004   33.04
04-851          5-27-2004   52.26
04-856          9-9-2004    158.01
04-857          10-14-2004  51.24
04-858          10-28-2004  95.25
04-859          10-28-2004  35.02;
                            35.99
04-861          11-10-2004  36.09
                            134.01–
04-862          11-23-2004  134.05;
                            134.99
05-874          3-10-2005   33.31
05-875          3-10-2005   33.60
05-881          4-14-2005   152.02
05-882          4-14-2005   152.06
05-883          5-12-2005   34.01
05-887          7-14-2005   152.03
05-888          7-14-2005   152.04
05-889          7-14-2005   152.05
05-892          8-11-2005   70.05
05-895          10-27-2005  70.05
                            153.01–
05-899          11-22-2005  153.13;
                            153.99
06-902          1-12-2006   112.03
06-905          2-23-2006   33.06
                            132.01–
07-927          1-11-2007   132.11;
                            132.99
07-928          1-25-2007   152.01
07-935          5-10-2007   70.05
07-936          5-24-2007   70.02
07-937          5-24-2007   70.06
07-938          6-14-2007   31.015–
                            31.022
                            154.01–
07-939          6-14-2007   154.13;
                            154.99
07-941          7-12-2007   70.01
07-945          10-11-2007  70.05
07-946          10-11-2007  70.05
07-947          10-11-2007  70.06
07-948          10-11-2007  70.06
07-949          10-25-2007  32.05
07-950          12-13-2007  51.17
07-952          12-13-2007  51.17
08-954          4-24-2008   131.15
                            151.01–
08-960          7-10-2008   151.14;
                            151.99
08-962          7-10-2008   35.02;
                            35.99
08-965          9-11-2008   96.01–
                            96.13
08-966          9-11-2008   96.25–
                            96.31
09-975          3-26-2009   70.01
09-976          3-26-2009   92.07
09-978          4-9-2009    110.02
09-983          7-9-2009    70.06
09-984          7-9-2009    70.05
09-985          7-9-2009    70.05
09-989          12-10-2009  152.07
09-990          12-10-2009  152.05
09-991          12-10-2009  152.02
09-991          12-10-2009  152.03
09-993          12-10-2009  152.08
09-994          12-10-2009  152.06
09-995          12-10-2009  152.01
09-996          12-10-2009  152.04
10-1001         1-14-2010   51.20
10-1003         1-14-2010   51.17
10-1004         1-14-2010   51.03
10-1005         1-14-2010   52.26
10-1006         1-14-2010   152.09
10-1006A        1-14-2010   152.09
10-1008         2-11-2010   120.01–
                            120.06
10-1010         5-27-2010   70.03
10-17           9-9-2010    33.29
11-1028         2-10-2011   30.03
                            121.01–
11-1029         2-10-2011   121.16,
                            121.99
11-1036         4-14-2011   51.17
11-1037         4-14-2011   52.26
11-1044         8-11-2011   153.03,
                            153.08
                            71.01–
11-1048         10-27-2011  71.12,
                            71.99
12-1051         2-9-2012    35.02,
                            35.99
12-1063         9-13-2012   110.03,
                            110.05
                            159.01–
12-1071         12-13-2012  159.07,
                            159.99
13-1072         1-10-2013   50.03,
                            50.99
13-1073         2-14-2013   51.17
13-1075         2-14-2013   52.26
13-1080         6-27-2013   135.01–
                            135.03
13-1082         8-8-2013    34.40–
                            34.45
13-1090         12-12-2013  35.02
13-1092         12-12-2013  35.03
                            150.02,
14-1097         2-27-2014   150.03,
                            150.06,
                            150.13
14-1098         2-27-2014   110.02,
                            110.03
14-1104         3-27-2014   51.03
15-1120         2-26-2015   110.03
                            112.15–
15-1125         6-25-2015   112.40,
                            112.99
                            119.01–
16-1139         1-14-2016   119.11,
                            119.99,
                            Ch. 119, App. A
                            112.21,
16-1140         1-14-2016   112.22,
                            112.27
16-1144         2-25-2016   152.09
16-1148         4-28-2016   112.03
16-1158         9-8-2016    112.03
17-1172         1-12-2017   96.46
                            110.05,
17-1181         7-13-2017   122.01 -
                            122.11,
                            122.99
17-1182         9-14-2017   158.01
17-1183         9-14-2017   36.40 -
                            36.44
17-1184A        11-9-2017   32.10
17-1192         12-14-2017  36.42
18-1193         1-11-2017   30.04
18-1195         1-11-2017   110.03
18-1197         1-11-2017   112.21
18-1200         5-10-2018   32.08
18-1203         6-14-2018   94.01
18-1206         9-13-2018   112.21,
                            112.22
                            119.25 -
18-1207         9-13-2018   119.36,
                            119.99
18-1213         10-25-2018  112.41
18-1216         12-13-2018  110.02
19-1223         10-10-2019  123.01 -
                            123.05
19-1228         12-12-2019  158.01
20-1229         1-9-2020    135.15 -
                            135.18
20-1231         4-23-2020   37.01,
                            37.99
20-1234         5-14-2020   30.05
                            10.99,
                            32.99,
                            33.99,
                            35.99,
                            36.99,
                            37.99,
                            50.99,
                            52.99,
                            71.99,
                            90.99,
                            91.99,
                            92.99,
                            93.99,
                            94.99,
                            95.99,
                            96.53,
                            110.99,
                            111.99,
20-1236         5-28-2020   112.99,
                            113.99,
                            114.99,
                            115.99,
                            116.99,
                            117.99,
                            118.99,
                            119.99,
                            121.99,
                            130.99,
                            131.99,
                            132.99,
                            133.99,
                            134.99,
                            150.99, 151.999,
                            153.99,
                            154.99,
                            155.99,
                            159.99
20-1242         11-12-2020  158.01
                           
                           
 
