CITY CODE
of
CARMI, ILLINOIS
2006
Code current through:
Ord. 1648, passed December 3, 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Carmi, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 1648, passed December 3, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
 
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CARMI CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Carmi. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CARMI CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2006 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2006 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2006 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which has
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2006 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2006 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2006 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by
reference, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Carmi".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2006 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Carmi, county of White, state of Illinois.
CODE: The city code of the city of Carmi.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Carmi.
COUNTY: The county of White, state of Illinois.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year for the city shall be from January 1 to December
31 of each calendar year, commencing with the calendar year 1979.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished, and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (Ord. 971, 2-19-1979; amd. 2006 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalties Enumerated: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any
person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of
this code shall be fined in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall
exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for each offense may
include a requirement that the offending party perform some reasonable public
service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or
upon public highways or performing maintenance of public facilities. A
violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state,
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the city shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this city code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this city code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2006 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: Rules Of Procedure
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6-3A of this title for compensation, and section
  1-7-3 of this title for elections and terms of office.
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Chief Executive Officer; Term Of Office: The chief executive officer of
the city shall be a mayor, who shall be a qualified elector, reside within the
city limits at least one year next preceding the election, and shall hold his
office for four (4) years, and until his successor is elected and qualified.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of the
mayor, when the unexpired term shall be one year or over from the day the
vacancy occurs, it shall be filled by an election.
   C.   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the mayor
shall take the oath provided by law, and also execute a bond to the city with
two (2) or more good and sufficient securities in the penal sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00), to be approved by the city council, conditional
according to law.
   D.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Presiding Officer; Voting Restrictions: The mayor shall preside at
all meetings of the city council, but shall not vote except in case of a tie,
when he shall give the casting vote:
         a.   Where one-half (1/2) of the aldermen elected have voted in favor
of an ordinance, resolution, or motion even though there is no tie vote; or
         b.   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by statute or an ordinance to adopt an ordinance, resolution, or
motion. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Legislation: The mayor shall sign all ordinances, resolutions,
orders, or other legislative or judicial acts of the city council meeting his
approval, and return to the city council, with his objections thereto, all
ordinances that do not meet his approval, and when approved by him, his
signature shall authenticate same.
      3.   Signature Required: In all contracts made between the city and any
other party, the mayor shall sign the same in behalf of the city, and it shall
be his special duty to see that the other contracting party complies with his
part of the contract; and in appeals taken by the city in any legal matter, it
shall be his duty to sign all papers and documents to which his signature may
be necessary in the prosecution of such an offense.
      4.   Appointments: The mayor shall have power to appoint all officers
(whose election by the voters is not provided for by law), by and with the
consent of the city council, by a vote of the majority of all its members
authorized by law to be elected, such vote to be taken by yeas and nays, to be
entered on the record. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899)
      5.   Removals From Office; Appointments To Fill Vacancies:
         a.   The mayor shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by
him, whenever, in his opinion, the interests of the city require such removal.
He shall report such removal, with his reasons therefor, to the council at a
meeting to be held not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after the
removal, and if the council, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its members
authorized by law to be elected, by yeas and nays, to be entered on the
records, shall disapprove of such removal, such officer shall be restored to
such office from which he was so removed, but he shall give new bond and take a
new oath of office. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
         b.   The mayor may appoint any suitable person to discharge the duties
of the office from which he shall have removed any officer until his successor
is appointed and qualified, or such officer restored to office in the manner
provided in subsection D5a of this section.
      6.   Police Powers: The mayor shall exercise, within the city limits, the
powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder and keep the peace.
      7.   Pardons: The mayor may release any person from a violation of any
city ordinance, and shall report such release, with the cause thereof, to the
city council at its next regular meeting thereafter. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899)
      8.   Civil Disorders: The mayor shall have power, when necessary, to call
on every person in the city to aid in enforcing the laws and ordinances, and to
call out the militia to aid in suppression of riots and other disorderly
conduct or carry into effect any law or ordinance subject to the authority of
the governor as commander in chief of the militia. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd.
2006 Code)
      9.   Inspection Of Books And Records: The mayor shall have power at all
times to examine and inspect the books, papers and records of any agent,
employee or officer of the city.
      10.   Annual Report: The mayor shall annually, and from time to time,
give the council information relative to the affairs of the city, and shall
recommend for their consideration, such measures as he may deem expedient.
      11.   Additional Duties: The mayor shall perform all such duties as shall
or may be prescribed by law, or by the ordinances, and shall take care that the
laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   E.   Mayor Pro Tem 1 : During the absence or disability of the mayor, the
city council shall elect one of its members to act as mayor pro tem who, during
such absence or disability, shall possess the powers and perform the duties of
mayor. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-5-2, rule IV, of this chapter.
1-5-2: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
Rules for the government of the city council are as follows:
   Rule I. Meetings: Until changed by proper action of the city council as
provided by law, the regular meetings of the mayor and city council shall be
held on the first and third Mondays of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
in the council room, municipal building, Carmi, Illinois. The same rule shall
apply to special meetings. All meetings of the city council shall be open to
the public unless otherwise excepted by law. (Ord., 11-10-1899; amd. Ord. 869,
5-7-1973; 2006 Code)
   Rule II. Punctuality: It shall be the duty of each alderman to be present
and on time at every meeting of the city council (unless unavoidably
prevented). No member shall absent himself during the session unless he is
excused by a majority of the members present.
   Rule III. Presiding Officer: The mayor (or the presiding officer in his
absence) shall enforce good order and decorum during the session of the
council, and it shall be the duty of all present to respect his orders.
   Rule IV. President Pro Tem: In the absence of the mayor, the council may
elect one of its members as its president pro tempore 1 .
   Rule V. Order Of Business: When the council shall be duly organized, the
order of business shall be as follows:
      1.   Reading the minutes of the last regular meeting and intervening
meetings.
      2.   Reception of petitions, memorials and resolutions.
      3.   Reports of standing committees.
      4.   Reports of special committees.
      5.   Reports of officers.
      6.   Miscellaneous business.
   Rule VI. Attendance At Meetings; Records Kept; Clerk Pro Tem: It shall be
the duty of the city clerk to attend all meetings of the council (unless
unavoidably prevented). He shall keep a correct record of the proceedings of
each meeting, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him
by ordinance. Should the city clerk be absent, the council may appoint a clerk
pro tempore. (Ord., 11-10-1899)
   Rule VII. Special Meetings: The mayor or any three (3) aldermen may call a
special meeting of the city council, but when any special meeting is so called,
it shall be the duty of the mayor or aldermen aforesaid to notify in writing
the members of the council to attend thereto, and it shall be the duty of the
city clerk to serve such notice on each member. Such notice shall state the
purpose for which such special meeting is called, and no other business shall
be transacted except that specified in the call, unless a vote of a majority of
the council present shall suspend this portion of the rule. (Ord., 11-10-1899;
amd. 2006 Code)
   Rule VIII. Parliamentary Rules: The city council shall be governed by
"Robert's Rules Of Order".
   Rule IX. Standing Committees: The mayor shall, at the first regular meeting
in May of each election year, appoint the following standing committees, each
to consist of two (2) members for all committees, except the library committee
which shall consist of one member, who shall hold their places for two (2)
years unless otherwise ordered by the council:
      1.   Committee on airport and buildings.
      2.   Committee on finance and budget.
      3.   Committee on streets and alleys.
      4.   Committee on fire department.
      5.   Committee on swimming pool, cemeteries and parks.
      6.   Committee on waterworks and sewer.
      7.   Committee on light and water administration.
      8.   Committee on light plant and line maintenance.
      9.   Library committee.
      10.   Committee on police, civil defense and animal control.
   Rule X. Passage Of Legislation:
      1.   All resolutions and motions: a) that create any liability against
the city; b) that provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money; or
c) to sell any city or school property, and all ordinances passed by the city
council shall be deposited with the city clerk. Except as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-1-1 et seq., and 5/5-1-1 et seq., if the mayor
approves an ordinance or resolution, the mayor shall sign it. Those ordinances,
resolutions, and motions which the mayor disapproves shall be returned to the
city council, with the mayor's written objections, at the next regular meeting
of the city council occurring not less than five (5) days after their passage.
The mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any ordinance,
resolution, or motion making an appropriation, and if so, the remainder shall
be effective. However, the mayor may disapprove entirely of an ordinance,
resolution, or motion making an appropriation. If the mayor fails to return any
ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his written objections
within the designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of
the mayor's signature.
      2.   Every resolution and motion specified in paragraph 1 of this rule,
and every ordinance that is returned to the city council by the mayor shall be
reconsidered by the city council at the next regular meeting following the
regular meeting at which the city council receives the mayor's written
objection. If, after reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the aldermen then
holding office on the city council agree at that regular meeting to pass an
ordinance, resolution, or motion, notwithstanding the mayor's refusal to
approve it, then it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage
over the mayor's veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the
journal.
   Rule XI. Committee Reports; Final Action: Any report of a committee of the
council shall be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting
of the same after the report is made, upon request of any two (2) aldermen
present.
   Rule XII. Voting: All votes of the city council shall be viva voce, except
upon the passage of ordinances and on propositions to create any liability
against the city, or for the expenditure, on appropriation, of its money, or
upon the request of any member when the yeas and nays shall be taken and
entered upon the journal, and the concurrence of a majority of all the members
elected in the council shall be necessary for the passage of any such
ordinances or propositions. Provided, a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the
aldermen elect shall be required to sell any city property.
   Rule XIII. Written Legislation: All petitions, memorials, resolutions,
reports and amendments shall be presented in writing before any action is taken
thereon.
   Rule XIV. Mayor's Veto: Upon the return of any ordinance by the mayor, the
vote by which the same was passed shall be reconsidered by the council, and if,
after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the members elected to the
city council shall agree, by yeas and nays, to pass the same, it shall go into
effect, notwithstanding the mayor may refuse to approve thereof. The vote to
pass the same over the mayor's veto shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered
on the journal.
   Rule XV. Suspension Of Rules: Any of the above rules may, by a vote of a
majority of the members present at any meeting, be suspended.
   Rule XVI. Amendments; Adoption Of New Rules: Any of the above rules may be
altered, amended or rescinded, or any new rules adopted, at any meeting of the
council by a vote of a majority of the members present. (Ord., 11-10-1899; amd.
2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 1-5-1E of this chapter.
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Commencement Of Terms Of Office
1-6-2: Commissioned Officers; Records To Successor
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-4: Neglect Of Duty; Violations
1-6-5: Personnel Policy
1-6-6: Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association
1-6-7: Social Security
1-6-8: Retirement
1-6-9: Residency Requirement
1-6-10: Sexual Harassment
1-6-11:    Travel Expense Reimbursement
1-6-1: COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE:
The terms of office of all Municipal officers, including, but not limited to,
the Mayor, the City Clerk and Aldermen, hereafter elected in the City 1 , shall
commence at the time of the first regular or special meeting of the Corporate
Authorities in the month of May, following such election. (Ord. 1112, 3-16-
1987; amd. Ord. 1409.2, 8-3-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
1-6-2: COMMISSIONED OFFICERS; RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR:
All officers of the City, whether elected or appointed (except the Clerk,
Aldermen and Mayor), shall be commissioned by warrants under the Corporate
Seal, signed by the Clerk and Mayor or presiding officer of the City Council.
The Mayor shall issue a certificate of election, under the Seal of the City, to
the Clerk, and any person having been an officer of the City shall, within five
(5) days after notification and request, deliver to his successor in office all
property, books and effects in his possession belonging to the City or
pertaining to his office; and, upon his refusal to do so, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title, and all damage caused thereby. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd.
2006 Code)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Elected Officials: The yearly compensation for the newly elected
Municipal officers of the City of Carmi, Illinois, for their terms beginning
May 4, 2021, shall be as follows:
 
Mayor      $46,000.00
City Clerk 35,700.00
Aldermen   4,800.00
 
   B.   City Attorney: The City Attorney shall receive a retainer fee of nine
hundred dollars ($900.00) per year, payable in equal quarterly installments
and, in addition thereto, such fees and compensation as the City Council and
the Mayor shall from time to time approve and allow.
   C.   Other Officers And Employees: Officers and employees of the City, other
than those mentioned in subsections A and B of this section, shall have and
receive such compensation as may from time to time be fixed and approved by the
Mayor and the City Council. (Ord. 486, 5-3-1941; amd. Ord. 697, 4-15-1953; 2006
Code; Ord. 1567, 11-5-2020)
1-6-4: NEGLECT OF DUTY; VIOLATIONS:
Every City officer who is guilty of a culpable omission of duty, or who is
guilty of wilful and corrupt oppression, misconduct, or misfeasance in the
discharge of the duties of office, shall be guilty of a business offense and,
on conviction, shall be fined not less than five hundred one dollars ($501.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The court entering the
conviction shall enter an order removing the convicted officer from office.
(Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
1-6-5: PERSONNEL POLICY:
There is hereby adopted the Personnel Policy of the City. Said Personnel Policy
is adopted by reference as if set out at length herein. Three (3) copies of
said policy are on file in the Office of the City Clerk. (2006 Code)
1-6-6: ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL LEAGUE RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION:
   A.   Membership Authorized: The City Council authorizes and approves
membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association and
directs the Mayor and Clerk to execute an intergovernmental cooperation
contract with the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association for
membership for a period of one year beginning the date the association
commences providing risk coverage to its members and each year thereafter
unless this section is repealed.
   B.   Costs Of Membership:
      1.   The City Treasurer is hereby directed to transmit to the Illinois
Municipal League Risk Management Association a sum of money equal to seventy
five percent (75%) of the insurance premiums charged the City for its policies
currently in force for property, inland marine, comprehensive general
liability, automobile liability, automobile physical damage, crime, and
workers' compensation coverages (or 75 percent of the insurance services office
annual rates for such coverages if any of such coverages are not presently
carried by the City), which sum shall constitute the cost of the City's first
year contribution for membership in the association.
      2.   Membership contributions for second and subsequent years shall be
calculated in accordance with the Municipal budget formula taking into
consideration total operating expenditures of the City (less specific
exclusions), loss experience of the City, and total losses and expenditures of
the Self-Insured Retention Fund of the association. (Ord. 1009, 10-20-1980)
1-6-7: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   City Policy: It is declared to be the policy and purpose of the City to
extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of January 1, 1955, the
benefits of the Federal old age and survivors insurance system as authorized by
the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In pursuance of said
policy, and for that purpose, the Mayor shall take such action as may be
required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations.
   B.   Agreement With State: The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute
an agreement with the State employees' retirement system (Social Security
Division) to secure coverage of eligible employees as provided in subsection A
of this section.
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the
purpose provided in subsection A of this section, are hereby authorized to be
made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable State or
Federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the State agency in such
amounts and at such times as are designated by State laws or regulations.
   D.   Employer Contributions: Employer contributions and administrative
expense shall be paid to the State agency in accordance with applicable State
laws and regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes.
   E.   Records And Reports: The City Clerk shall maintain such records and
submit such reports as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or
regulations. (Ord. 709, 3-7-1955)
1-6-8: RETIREMENT:
The Mayor and the City Council hereby elects that the City participate in the
Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, effective January 1, 1964. (Ord. 791, 11-4-
1963)
1-6-9: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Residency Required: All persons who begin employment with the City
after the effective date hereof shall either be actual residents of the City at
the time that they are hired, or they shall become actual residents of the City
within six (6) months after the completion of their probationary period, and
shall thereafter continuously reside within the City while so employed by the
City. The six (6) month period described in this section shall begin on the
effective date of the employee's completion of probation.
   B.   Exemptions: Where the specialized requirements of a position make it
difficult to find qualified applicants willing to obtain residency status, the
Mayor may, with the approval of the City Council, exempt specific positions
from the City's residency requirement. (Ord. 1273, 2-1-1999)
1-6-10: SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the City of Carmi to prohibit harassment of any person by any Municipal
official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency or office on
the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal officials, Municipal agents,
Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from
sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or
lack thereof.
   B.   Definition Of Sexual Harassment: This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      1.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         a.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment,
         b.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
         c.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      2.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         a.   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         b.   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         c.   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         d.   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         e.   Textual/electronic: "sexting" (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      3.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person".
   C.   Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment:
      1.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his
position to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      2.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         a.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         b.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a Department Head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
         c.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
         d.   Allegations of Sexual Harassment made against an elected official
of the governmental unit by another elected official of a governmental unit: In
addition to the methods of reporting included above, an elected official may
request an independent review of a complaint of sexual harassment by another
elected official. The request shall be made to the human resources director,
the city manager or administrator or the chief elected official of the
municipality. The official receiving the request shall take immediate action in
keeping with the procurement process of the municipality to retain a qualified
individual or entity for the independent review of the allegations of sexual
harassment in violation of this policy. The outcome of the independent review
shall be reported to the corporate authorities.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   D.   Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations:
No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency
or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal employee due
to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report made
in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be protected
from retaliation.
Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection from
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate against an
employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative hearing, or
before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an
employer may not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a
government or law enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal
law, rule, or regulation 3 .
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights violation
for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a
person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in good
faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed over
for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
   E.   Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: In
addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency.
   F.   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report: A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable Municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 1541, 1-2-2018, eff. 1-
2-2018; amd. Ord. 1546, 12-4-2018; Ord. 1566, 10-6-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 4. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-6-11: TRAVEL EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT:
Employees and Elected Officials of the City of Carmi and Carmi Light and Water
will be reimbursed for travel expenses as follows:
   A.   Definitions.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS: Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which his required or useful for the benefit of the City of Carmi and Carmi
Light and Water to carry out the responsibilities of City business.
      TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and elected officials of the City of Carmi involved reimbursement to travelers
or direct payment to private agencies providing related services.
   B.   Lodging, Meals, And Travel Expenses.
      1.   Lodging.
         a.   Employees and elected officials requiring overnight lodging will
have lodging paid for by the City of Carmi or Carmi Light and Water not
exceeding $200 per night for lodging only. Up to two employees or elected
officials of the same sex may lodge together in the same room with double beds.
Every effort will be made to book a room that offers complimentary breakfast.
         b.   If for any reason the two employees of the same sex are unable to
lodge together, the City of Carmi or Carmi Light and Water will only reimburse
50% of the room fee not to exceed $100. Reservations must be made by the
employee or elected official and will be reimbursed at the conclusion of the
trip.
      2.   Meals. The City of Carmi or Carmi Light and Water will provide a
reimbursement of up to $20 a day per meals for Employees and Elected Officials
on required overnight travel. Alcohol is excluded from reimbursement. Receipts
must be provided for reimbursement.
      3.   Travel.
         a.   If using a City or Carmi Light and Water provided vehicle, you
must turn in any gas receipts for reimbursement.
         b.   If you are using a personal vehicle, milage will be reimbursed at
the current year IRS rate. Gas receipts will not be reimbursed.
      4.   Entertainment. Pursuant to Illinois Public Act 099-0605, no
entertainment expenses may be reimbursed. Alcohol is excluded from
reimbursement.
   C.   Reimbursement.
      1.   No lodging, meal or travel expenses incurred by a City employee or
officer shall be authorized for payment by the City of Carmi or Carmi Light and
Water unless the “Lodging, Meal and Travel Expense Reimbursement Request Form”,
attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A, is submitted along with
required receipts. All documents and information submitted with this form shall
be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et
seq).
      2.   Expenses for lodging that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed
under the regulations adopted under Chapter 2 of this Ordinance may only be
approved by a roll call vote at an open meeting of the Carmi City Council.
      3.   Expenses for meals that exceed the maximum reimbursement due to an
emergency situation or extraordinary circumstance under the regulations adopted
under division B. of this section may only be approved by a roll call vote at
an open meeting of the Carmi City Council. (Ord. 1625, 7-2-2024)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK 1
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Bond And Oath
1-6A-2: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6-3A of this chapter for compensation, and section
  1-7-3 of this title for election and term of office.
1-6A-1: BOND AND OATH:
   A.   Bond: The City Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office, execute a bond to the City in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), with two (2) or more securities, to be approved by the City
Council, conditioned that he will well and truthfully perform all his duties as
City Clerk and comply with the ordinances, orders and resolutions passed in
relation to his official duties, and pay over to the City Treasurer all monies
coming into his hands by virtue of his office and belonging to the City, which
bond shall be on file in the Office of the City Treasurer.
   B.   Oath: The oath of the City Clerk shall be on file with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
1-6A-2: DUTIES:
The City Clerk shall have the following duties:
   A.   Attend Meetings: Attend all regular and special meetings of the City
Council.
   B.   Journal Kept: Keep a correct journal of the proceedings, and record the
same in a book to be kept for that purpose.
   C.   Record And Publish Ordinances: Record in a separate book, all
ordinances passed from time to time and cause such as impose any fine, penalty,
imprisonment, or forfeiture, or make any appropriation to be published at least
once, within thirty (30) days after passage, in one (1) or more newspapers with
a general circulation within the City.
   D.   Books And Records Kept: Keep and faithfully preserve all papers, books
and documents belonging to his office, and have the custody of all papers,
books, maps and documents belonging to the City, and not in actual use of the
City officers.
   E.   Communications To Council: Without delay, deliver to the City Council
all communications and documents addressed to the same and coming into his
custody.
   F.   Corporate Seal And Supplies Kept: Keep the Corporate Seal of the City,
and affix the same to all documents and writings as provided by law.
   G.   Additional Duties: Do and perform such other duties as may be required
of him by the laws of this State, the ordinances of the City, and the orders
and resolutions of the City Council. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
   H.   Defining Duties: Defining duties of the elected office of City Clerk
beyond those duties outlined in the Illinois Municipal Code 1 :
      1.   Human Resource Director.
      2.   Risk Management Coordinator.
      3.   Health Insurance Administrator.
      4.   IMRF Administrator.
      5.   Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Officer. (Ord. 1567, 11-5-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40.
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-0: Appointment
1-6B-1: Bond And Oath
1-6B-2: Duties
1-6B-0: APPOINTMENT:
The position of treasurer of the city of Carmi shall be appointed by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council with the condition that the
director of the city's auditing firm approve any potential appointee after a
thorough interview. (Ord. 1409.2, 8-3-2009)
1-6B-1: BOND AND OATH:
The city treasurer shall, before entering upon the duties of his office,
execute a bond in an amount of money that is not less than three (3) times the
latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor
fuel tax purposes, with two (2) or more securities or with a surety bond to be
approved by the city council, conditioned that he will faithfully perform the
duties of his office, and pay over all the monies received by him, according to
the laws and ordinances of the city, and shall take and subscribe the oath or
affirmation prescribed for city officers, which oath and bond shall be filed in
the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 305, 5-7-1917; amd. 2006 Code)
1-6B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The City Treasurer shall keep a true and correct account of all monies
belonging to the City and that may come into his or her possession stating from
whom and on what account received and shall give a receipt for the same. The
Treasurer shall pay out money ordered by the City Council.
   B.   The Treasurer shall at each regular meeting of the City Council provide
a written report from the City’s bookkeeping service, or in person, the
condition of the City Treasury showing the different sums of money received and
paid out during the month. The reports shall be kept for a minimum of seven
years, or longer, if required by the State of Illinois or United States of
America for financial reporting purposes. (Ord. 1626, 7-2-2024)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY 1
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-6C-2: Oath
1-6C-3: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6-3B of this chapter for compensation.
1-6C-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of
the city council. He shall hold office at the discretion of the city council.
(2006 Code)
1-6C-2: OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city attorney shall take the
oath of office. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
1-6C-3: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city attorney to:
   A.   Legal Advisor: Act as the legal advisor for the city in all matters
pertaining to contracts with or by the city or any legal questions arising out
of any law, ordinance or otherwise, to give his opinion upon the request of the
city council and other city officials in regard to the duties of their office.
(Ord. 8, 10-24-1899; amd. Ord. 297, 7-5-1915)
   B.   Suits And Actions:
      1.   Commence and prosecute all actions or suits required to be
instituted by and for the city, and defend the city in all actions brought or
instituted against it.
      2.   Appear and prosecute in behalf of the city, when his services shall
be necessary, all actions or suits for the violation of any ordinance, and take
appeals in all cases wherein he deems the interests of the city require it, the
mayor concurring therein.
   C.   Draft Legislation: Draft all ordinances and other legal instruments
which may be required by ordinance or otherwise. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899)
   D.   Administer Oaths: Administer oaths in the event any of the persons
named by statute is unable to administer an oath. (Ord. 1303, 4-12-2001)
   E.   Attend Meetings; Additional Duties: Attend all meetings of the city
council, and do and perform all other duties incident to his office which may
be required of him by the ordinances of the city, or resolutions of the city
council. (Ord. 8, 10-24-1899)
ARTICLE D. ETHICS
SECTION:
1-6D-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-6D-2: Definitions
1-6D-3: Interpretation
1-6D-4: Prohibited Acts
1-6D-5: Penalties
1-6D-6: Amendments
1-6D-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-6D-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/10-10 through 430/10-40 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 1345, 5-17-2004)
1-6D-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 1345, 5-17-2004)
1-6D-3: INTERPRETATION:
This article does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this article, however, the provisions of this article shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 1345, 5-17-2004)
1-6D-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act, by any officer or employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 1345, 5-17-2004)
1-6D-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this article shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 1345, 5-17-2004)
1-6D-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this article by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this article by
reference without formal action by the city council. (Ord. 1345, 5-17-2004)
1-6D-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this article shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This article shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the city council if the act is found unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme
court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this article shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
article relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the city council. (Ord. 1345, 5-17-2004)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election Wards
1-7-2: General Election Law Applies
1-7-3: Elected Officials; Terms Of Office
1-7-1: ELECTION WARDS:
The city is divided into wards, the boundaries of which shall be as follows:
   A.   First Ward: All that part of the city situated south of Main Street
shall constitute the first ward.
   B.   Second Ward: All that part of the city situated between Main Street and
the main track of the Louisville and Nashville Railway shall constitute the
second ward.
   C.   Third Ward: All that part of the city situated north of the main track
of the Louisville and Nashville Railway shall constitute the third ward. (Ord.
2, 10-24-1899)
   D.   Fourth Ward: The same territory comprising White County election
precincts number 19 and 20 described as:
Beginning at a point where the South city limits of Carmi, Illinois, intersects
the West boundary of Hawthorne Township; thence South along the West boundary
of Hawthorne Township to the Southeast corner of Section 24, Township 5S.,
Range 9 East of the 3rd P.M. in White County, Illinois; thence West to the
Southwest corner of Section 24; thence North to Illinois Route 1; thence East
along Illinois Route #1 to Plum St. in Carmi, Illinois; thence South along Plum
St. to Webb St.; thence East along Webb St. to Church St.; thence South along
Church St. to the South city limits of Carmi, Illinois; thence East along the
said South city limits of Carmi, Illinois, to the place of beginning.
Beginning at the Southeast corner of Section 24, Township 5S., Range 9E., of
the 3rd. P.M. in White County, Illinois; thence South along the East boundary
of Carmi Township to the Southeast corner of Carmi Township; thence West along
the South boundary of Carmi Township to Illinois Route #1; thence Northeast
along Illinois Route 1 to College Boulevard in Carmi, Illinois; thence South
along College Blvd. to the Southwest corner of Section 24, Township 5S, Range
9E. of the 3rd P.M. in White County, Illinois; thence East to the place of
beginning.
(Ord., 12-1-1980)
1-7-2: GENERAL ELECTION LAW APPLIES:
The general election law of the state applies to the scheduling, manner of
conducting, voting at, and contesting of city elections. (2006 Code)
1-7-3: ELECTED OFFICIALS; TERMS OF OFFICE 1 :
   A.   The elected officials of the city are the mayor, the city clerk, and
two (2) aldermen elected from each of the four (4) wards in the city, who shall
hold their respective offices for terms of four (4) years and until their
successors are elected and qualified. (Ord. 5, 10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code; Ord.
1409.2, 8-3-2009)
   B.   There have been created four (4) wards in the city, and two (2)
aldermen are to be elected from each of said wards. The terms of the two (2)
aldermen elected from each ward should be staggered so that one alderman serves
for a term of two (2) years from date of election and qualification as provided
by law, and one alderman serves for four (4) years from date of election and
qualification as provided by law. At the expiration of the terms of the
aldermen elected at the election on April 7, 1981, the terms of office of
aldermen shall thereafter be four (4) years. (Ord. 1015, 3-16-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapters 5 and 6 of this title.
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Assessment And Collection Of Taxes
1-8-2: City Depositories
1-8-1: ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAXES:
The manner of assessment and collection of taxes in the city shall be the same
as prescribed in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes chapter 5, article 8. (Ord. 14,
10-24-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
1-8-2: CITY DEPOSITORIES:
The First National Bank of Carmi, Old National Bank Of Carmi, Banterra Bank,
Integra Bank, State Farm of Carmi and Edward D. Jones are designated as the
banks in which shall be kept the funds and monies of the city, which funds are
in or shall in the future come into the custody of the city treasurer. Said
banks are hereby requested to furnish to the city council copies of the last
two (2) sworn statements of resources and liabilities made by them, which were
required to be furnished by said banks to the auditor of public accounts or to
the comptroller of currency, as the case may be. Upon the furnishing of said
statements, each of the above named banks shall be deemed to have qualified to
receive the municipal funds, or monies, as such depositories, as above
mentioned, and until such statements have been received by the city council,
said banks shall not be deemed to have qualified as such depositories. (Ord.
492, 11-3-1941; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CITY SEAL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Description And Use
1-9-1: DESCRIPTION AND USE:
A seal, in circular form, with the words: City of Carmi, Ill. Corporate Seal
and, in the interior and center, a map of White County, showing railroads and
navigable rivers in the county, township lines, and the city of Carmi, shall be
the corporate seal of the city, to be used in all cases that have been, or
shall hereafter be, provided by laws of the United States, of this state, the
ordinances of the city, and in all cases where it is necessary to use a seal by
a corporation. (Ord. 3, 10-24-1899)
CHAPTER 10
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Created
1-10-2: Registration Rules
1-10-1: CREATED:
The clerk or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and directed to create
an "interested parties" registry in accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the
act 1  for each redevelopment project area created under the act and not
terminated by the city, whether now existing or created after the adoption date
hereof. (Ord. 1374, 3-19-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.
1-10-2: REGISTRATION RULES:
In accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the act, the city hereby adopts the
registration rules attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein as
registration rules for each such "interested parties" registry. The city, with
the consent of the city attorney as to form and legality, shall have the
authority to amend such registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the act. (Ord. 1374, 3-19-2007)
CHAPTER 11
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
1-11-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Prohibited Acts
1-11-4: Penalty
1-11-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the state of Illinois as expressed in its
constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the city of Carmi, Illinois, to assure equal
opportunity to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical disability to live in decent,
sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the city of Carmi that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the city, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in
the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodations and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 1393, 3-
3-2008)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meanings as described in this section and as used in this
chapter:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL, STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodations and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange or
rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or collects
rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city of Carmi, Illinois.
(Ord. 1393, 3-3-2008)
1-11-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the city of Carmi, Illinois:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price,
terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental, lease
or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the city or in
furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or disability of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed or disability.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any housing
accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the proposed buyers or tenant.
(Ord. 1393, 3-3-2008)
1-11-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way
abrogate or impair the right of the city of Carmi, Illinois, to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1393,
3-3-2008)
CHAPTER 12
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purpose
1-12-2: Scope
1-12-3: Definitions
1-12-4: Administration
1-12-5: Prevention Elements
1-12-6: Program Management And Accountability
1-12-7: Other Legal Requirements
1-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this identity theft prevention program (program) is to protect
customers of the municipality's utility services from identity theft. The
program is intended to establish reasonable policies and procedures to
facilitate the detection, prevention and mitigation of identity theft in
connection with the opening of new covered accounts and activity on existing
covered accounts. (Ord. 1397, 10-20-2008)
1-12-2: SCOPE:
The program applies to the creation, modification and access to identifying
information of a customer of one or more of the utilities operated by the
municipality (electric, natural gas, water and wastewater) by any and all
personnel of the municipality, including management personnel. This program
does not replace or repeal any previously existing policies or programs
addressing some or all of the activities that are the subject of this program,
but rather it is intended to supplement any such existing policies and
programs. (Ord. 1397, 10-20-2008)
1-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this program, the following terms have the meanings set forth
opposite their name, unless the context clearly requires that the term be given
a different meaning:
COVERED ACCOUNT: An account that the municipality offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves or is
designed to permit multiple payments of transactions (16 CFR 681.2(b)(3)(i)). A
utility account is a "covered account". The term "covered account" also
includes other accounts offered or maintained by the municipality of which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or the utility from
identity theft (CFR 681.2(b)(3)(ii)).
IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, social security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of "identifying information" are set forth in 16 CFR
section 603.2(a).
IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 CFR sections 681.2(b)(8)
and 603.2(a)).
RED FLAG: A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
Certain terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings
given to them in the FTC's identity theft rules (16 CFR part 681) or the fair
credit reporting act of 1970 (15 USC section 1681 et seq.), as amended by the
fair and accurate credit transactions act of 2003 passed into law on December
4, 2003 (public law 108-159). (Ord. 1397, 10-20-2008)
1-12-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The initial adoption and approval of the identity theft prevention program
shall be by ordinance of the city council. Thereafter, changes to the program
of a day to day operational character and decisions relating to the
interpretation and implementation of the program may be made by the program
administrator (city clerk). Major changes or shifts of policy positions under
the program shall only be made by the city council.
Development, implementation, administration and oversight of the program will
be the responsibility of the program administrator. The program administrator
may, but shall not be required to, appoint a committee to administer the
program. The program administrator shall be the head of any such committee. The
program administrator will report at least annually to the city council
regarding compliance with this program.
Issues to be addressed in the annual identity theft prevention report include:
   A.   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the risk
of identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts and
activity with respect to existing covered accounts.
   B.   Service provider arrangements.
   C.   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's
response.
   D.   Recommendations for material changes to the program, if needed for
improvement. (Ord. 1397, 10-20-2008)
1-12-5: PREVENTION ELEMENTS:
   A.   Identification Of Relevant Red Flags: The municipality has considered
the guidelines and the illustrative examples of possible red flags from the
FTC's identity theft rules and has reviewed the municipality's past history
with instances of identity theft, if any. The municipality hereby determines
that the following are the relevant red flags for purposes of this program
given the relative size of the municipality and the limited nature and scope of
the services that the municipality provides to its citizens:
      1.   Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer
reporting agencies or service providers.
         a.   A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report
or an identity verification response from a credit reporting agency.
         b.   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in
response to a request for a consumer report.
         c.   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address
discrepancy, as defined in section 681.1(b) of the FTC's identity theft rules.
         d.   A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
            (1)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
            (2)   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
            (3)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
            (4)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse
of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
      2.   The presentation of suspicious documents.
         a.   Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered
or forged.
         b.   The photograph or physical description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
         c.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
         d.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the municipality, such as a
signature card or a recent check.
         e.   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives
the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
      3.   The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information,
such as a suspicious address change.
         a.   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the municipality. For
example:
            (1)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report
or CRA ID check response; or
            (2)   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the social security administration's death master file.
         b.   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
         c.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party sources used
by the municipality. For example:
            (1)   The address on an application is the same as the address
provided on a fraudulent application; or
            (2)   The phone number on an application is the same as the number
provided on a fraudulent application.
         d.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party
sources used by the municipality. For example:
            (1)   The billing address on an application is fictitious, a
maildrop, or a prison; or
            (2)   The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
         e.   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
         f.   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually
large number of other persons opening accounts or other customers.
         g.   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
         h.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the municipality.
         i.   If the municipality uses challenge questions, the person opening
the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
      4.   The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a
covered account.
         a.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the municipality receives a request for the addition of authorized
users on the account.
         b.   A new utility account is used in a manner commonly associated
with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer fails to make
the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
         c.   A covered account with a stable history shows irregularities.
         d.   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
         e.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although usage of utility products or services continues in connection with the
customer's covered account.
         f.   The municipality is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
         g.   The municipality is notified of unauthorized usage of utility
products or services in connection with a customer's covered account.
      5.   Notice of possible identity theft.
         a.   The municipality is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
   B.   Detection Of Red Flags: The employees of the municipality who interact
directly with customers on a day to day basis shall have the initial
responsibility for monitoring the information and documentation provided by the
customer and any third party service provider in connection with the opening of
new accounts and the modification of or access to existing accounts and the
detection of any red flags that might arise. Management shall see to it that
all employees who might be called upon to assist a customer with the opening of
a new account or with modifying or otherwise accessing an existing account are
properly trained such that they have a working familiarity with the relevant
red flags identified in this program so as to be able to recognize any red
flags that might surface in connection with the transaction. An employee who is
not sufficiently trained to recognize the red flags identified in this program
shall not open a new account for any customer, modify any existing account or
otherwise provide any customer with access to information in an existing
account without the direct supervision and specific approval of a management
employee. Management employees shall be properly trained such that they can
recognize the relevant red flags identified in this program and exercise sound
judgment in connection with the response to any unresolved red flags that may
present themselves in connection with the opening of a new account or with
modifying or accessing of an existing account. Management employees shall be
responsible for making the final decision on any such unresolved red flags.
The program administrator shall establish from time to time a written policy
setting forth the manner in which a prospective new customer may apply for
service, the information and documentation to be provided by the prospective
customer in connection with an application for a new utility service account,
the steps to be taken by the employee assisting the customer with the
application in verifying the customer's identity and the manner in which the
information and documentation provided by the customer and any third party
service provider shall be maintained. Such policy shall be generally consistent
with the spirit of the customer identification program rules (31 CFR 103.121)
implementing section 326(a) of the USA PATRIOT act but need not be as detailed.
The program administrator shall establish from time to time a written policy
setting forth the manner in which customers with existing accounts shall
establish their identity before being allowed to make modifications to or
otherwise gain access to existing accounts.
   C.   Response To Detected Red Flags: If the responsible employees of the
municipality as set forth in the previous subsection are unable, after making a
good faith effort, to form a reasonable belief that they know the true identity
of a customer attempting to open a new account or modify or otherwise access an
existing account based on the information and documentation provided by the
customer and any third party service provider, the municipality shall not open
the new account or modify or otherwise provide access to the existing account
as the case may be. Discrimination in respect to the opening of new accounts or
the modification or access to existing accounts will not be tolerated by
employees of the municipality and shall be grounds for immediate dismissal.
The program administrator shall establish from time to time a written policy
setting forth the steps to be taken in the event of an unresolved red flag
situation. Consideration should be given to aggravating factors that may
heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security incident that
results in unauthorized access to a customer's account, or a notice that a
customer has provided account information to a fraudulent individual or
website. Appropriate responses to prevent or mitigate identity theft when a red
flag is detected include:
      1.   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft.
      2.   Contacting the customer.
      3.   Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices
that permit access to a covered account.
      4.   Reopening a covered account with a new account number.
      5.   Not opening a new covered account.
      6.   Closing an existing covered account.
      7.   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a
covered account to a debt collector.
      8.   Notifying law enforcement.
      9.   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances. (Ord. 1397, 10-20-2008)
1-12-6: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY:
   A.   Initial Risk Assessment; Covered Accounts: Utility accounts for
personal, family and household purposes are specifically included within the
definition of "covered account" in the FTC's identity theft rules. Therefore,
the municipality determines that with respect to its residential utility
accounts it offers and/or maintains covered accounts. The municipality also
performed an initial risk assessment to determine whether the utility offers or
maintains any other accounts for which there are reasonably foreseeable risks
to customers or the utility from identity theft. In making this determination
the municipality considered: 1) the methods it uses to open its accounts, 2)
the methods it uses to access its accounts, and 3) its previous experience with
identity theft, and it concluded that it does not offer or maintain any such
other covered accounts.
   B.   Program Updates; Risk Assessment: The program, including relevant red
flags, is to be updated as often as necessary but at least annually to reflect
changes in risks to customers from identity theft. Factors to consider in the
program update include:
      1.   An assessment of the risk factors identified above.
      2.   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems or
procedures.
      3.   Changes in methods of identity theft.
      4.   Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft.
      5.   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers, acquisitions,
alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
   C.   Training And Oversight: All staff and third party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. (Ord. 1397, 10-20-
2008)
1-12-7: OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
This identity theft program is hereby adopted by the city of Carmi, Illinois,
pursuant to and in compliance with the identity theft rules of the federal
trade commission (FTC), part 681 of title 16 of the code of federal regulations
(16 CFR part 681). (Ord. 1397, 10-20-2008)
CHAPTER 13
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SECTION:
1-13-1: FOIA Officer
1-13-2: Request For Public Record
1-13-3: Training
1-13-4: Retrieval Of Records
1-13-5: Fees
1-13-6: Denial Of Records; Appeal
1-13-7: User Resources
1-13-1: FOIA OFFICER:
The city clerk is hereby designated as the FOIA officer to whom all initial
requests for access to the records of the city are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made at the offices of the city clerk at Carmi, Illinois,
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday. In the event that the city clerk is not available during
the times described above, the economic development director is designated as
the deputy FOIA officer to whom such initial requests are to be made. Except in
instances when records are furnished immediately, the FOIA officer, or his
designees, shall receive requests submitted to the city under the freedom of
information act, ensure that the city responds to requests in a timely fashion,
and issue responses under the act. The FOIA officer shall develop a list of
documents or categories of records that the city shall immediately disclose
upon request. (Ord. 1421, 6-7-2010)
1-13-2: REQUEST FOR PUBLIC RECORD:
Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA officer shall:
   A.   Note the date the city receives the written request;
   B.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and make a
notation of that date on the written request;
   C.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied; and
   D.   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of the
response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy of
other communications. (Ord. 1421, 6-7-2010)
1-13-3: TRAINING:
The FOIA officer and deputy FOIA officer shall, within six (6) months after
January 1, 2010, successfully complete an electronic training curriculum to be
developed by the public access counselor of the state of Illinois and
thereafter successfully complete an annual training program. Whenever a new
freedom of information officer is designated by the city, that person shall
successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within thirty (30)
days after assuming the position. (Ord. 1421, 6-7-2010)
1-13-4: RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS:
Any records which are the subject of a request under the freedom of information
act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the FOIA officer,
or by an employee of the city acting under the direction of the FOIA officer.
In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting them or by any
person who is not employed by the city. (Ord. 1421, 6-7-2010)
1-13-5: FEES:
If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether certified
or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the FOIA officer pursuant
to section 6(b) of the freedom of information act. The city clerk shall
maintain a written schedule of current fees in the clerk's office. The fees so
charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the records, and the cost of
certifying copies, if certification is requested. (Ord. 1421, 6-7-2010)
1-13-6: DENIAL OF RECORDS; APPEAL:
In the event that a request to inspect city records is denied by the FOIA
officer, the denial may be appealed to the public access counselor of the state
of Illinois. (Ord. 1421, 6-7-2010)
1-13-7: USER RESOURCES:
The city clerk shall prepare: a) a city information directory; b) a block
diagram of the functional subdivisions of the city; c) a city records
directory; and d) a records catalog, all of which shall be substantially in the
same form as the documents attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part hereof as exhibits A, B, C, and D. This information shall also be posted
on the city's website. (Ord. 1421, 6-7-2010)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
(Rep. by Ord. 1630, 9-3-2024)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL POWER AGENCY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Membership
2-2-2: Agency Agreement
2-2-3: City Representative To Agency
2-2-1: MEMBERSHIP:
Any municipality listed in exhibit 1, attached to ordinance 1114, on file in
the office of the city clerk, which passes an ordinance on or prior to May 4,
1987, authorizing the execution of an agency agreement (the "agency agreement")
substantially in the form attached to ordinance 1114 as exhibit 2, shall be
authorized to become an initial member of the municipal power agency, as
defined and provided by the agency agreement; or any municipality listed which
passes an ordinance after that date authorizing the execution of an agency
agreement (the "agency agreement") substantially in the form attached to
ordinance 1114 as exhibit 2 and any supplement to the agency agreement
substantially in the form attached to ordinance 1114 as exhibit 3, shall be
approved as a member of the municipal power agency, as defined and provided by
the agency agreement. (Ord. 1114, 5-4-1987; amd. 2006 Code)
2-2-2: AGENCY AGREEMENT:
The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute and the city clerk shall
attest, pursuant to this chapter, the agency agreement, substantially in the
same form attached to ordinance 1114 as exhibit 2, which ordinance is on file
in the office of the city clerk, for the formation of a municipal power agency
with one or more of the municipalities listed in exhibit 1 attached to
ordinance 1114, and with such other municipalities subsequently becoming
members of the municipal power agency pursuant to the agency agreement and the
supplements to the agency agreements substantially in the same form as is
attached to ordinance 1114 as exhibit 3. The mayor, by executing the agency
agreement and the supplements to the agency agreements, shall approve the terms
and conditions of the agency agreement and the supplements to the agency
agreement. (Ord. 1114, 5-4-1987; amd. 2006 Code)
2-2-3: CITY REPRESENTATIVE TO AGENCY:
By this chapter, the mayor is hereby authorized to serve as the representative
of the city on the municipal power agency board of directors. (Ord. 1114, 5-4-
1987)
CHAPTER 3
INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Established
2-3-2: Membership
2-3-3: Appointment
2-3-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
An industrial commission is established to aid in economic development within
the city. The commission shall advise with and make recommendations to the
mayor and city council concerning any industrial projects. (Ord. 1152, 12-18-
1989)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The commission shall consist of seven (7) members, as follows:
   A.   The mayor of the city.
   B.   One alderman from the city council, whose term shall coincide with his
term as alderman.
   C.   Five (5) appointees, whose original terms shall be staggered from one
to five (5) years. Subsequent terms shall be for five (5) years.
   D.   Executive secretary of the economic development department of the city.
Said secretary shall be a nonvoting member of the commission. (Ord. 1152, 12-
18-1989)
2-3-3: APPOINTMENT:
The appointees are to be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city
council. (Ord. 1152, 12-18-1989)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-1-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-1-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-1-4: Municipal Utilities Tax
3-1-5: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
3-1-6: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-1-7: Nonhome Rule Retailers' Occupation Tax And Service Occupation Tax (Sales
Tax)
3-1-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the city
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to
a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property to purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as
amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
   D.   State Exclusions Not Applicable: The exclusion contained in section 2
(d) of the "retailers' occupation tax act", approved June 28, 1933, as amended,
shall not apply to property within the city. (Ord. 839, 9-2-1969, eff. 10-1-
1969; amd. Ord. 967, 12-18-1978; Ord. 1003, 9-3-1980; Ord. 1049, 9-21-1982;
2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-1-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
city in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said
servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
   B.   Report Required: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department
of revenue required by section nine of the "service occupation tax act",
approved July 10, 1961, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   D.   State Exclusions Not Applicable: The exclusion contained in section 2
(e) of the "service occupation tax act", approved July 10, 1961, as amended,
shall not apply to property within the city. (Ord. 840, 9-2-1969, eff. 10-1-
1969; amd. Ord. 967, 12-18-1978; Ord. 1003, 9-3-1980; Ord. 1049, 9-21-1982;
2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-1-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the city
any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of
Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of such tangible property with "selling price" to have the
meaning as defined in the "use tax act", approved July 14, 1955 1 . (Ord. 894,
11-4-1974; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Collection Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois
department of revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid
before the title or certificate of registration for the personal property is
issued. (Ord. 894, 11-4-1974)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-1-4: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, water or electricity for use or consumption and not
for resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state,
or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative, appointed by order of
any court. (Ord. 715, 8-15-1955; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom 1 . (Ord. 715, 8-15-1955)
      3.   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city
at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed Per Month Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed Per Month     Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
First 2,000                                   0.362
Next 48,000                                   0.324
Next 50,000                                   0.276
Next 400,000                                  0.259
Next 500,000                                  0.248
Next 2,000,000                                0.245
Next 2,000,000                                0.240
Next 5,000,000                                0.235
Next 10,000,000                               0.230
All electricity used or consumed in excess of 0.225
20,000,000
 
(Ord. 1282, 7-1-1999; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Exemptions From Tax: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, water or electricity or using or consuming
electricity be subject to taxation under the provisions of this section for
such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions
of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act" 2 , authorized by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1, nor shall any tax authorized by this section be
imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the
tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in
businesses of the same class in the city, whether privately or city owned or
operated, or exercising the same privilege within the city. (Ord. 715, 8-15-
1955; amd. Ord. 718, 12-5-1955; Ord. 719, 1-3-1956; Ord. 1282, 7-1-1999; 2006
Code)
   D.   Tax Is Additional: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of
money, or value of products or services furnished to the city by the taxpayer
as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
(Ord. 715, 8-15-1955; amd. Ord. 1282, 7-1-1999)
   E.   Collection Of Electric Utility Tax: The tax authorized by subsection B3
of this section shall be collected from the purchaser by the person maintaining
a place of business in this state who delivers the electricity to the
purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is recoverable in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity; provided,
that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax
related to deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible; and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax. For
purposes of this subsection, any partial payment not specifically identified by
the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery of electricity. Any tax
required to be collected pursuant to this section and any such tax collected by
a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed to the city by
such person delivering the electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall
collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for
delivering the electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be
authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of
the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred
in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting
the tax and supplying data to the city upon request. If the person delivering
electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser
shall be required to pay the tax directly to the city in the manner prescribed
by the city. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
subsection shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the city the amount of
the tax collected pursuant to this section. (Ord. 1282, 7-1-1999; amd. 2006
Code)
   F.   Tax Returns:
      1.   Contents Of Returns: On or before the last day of each month, each
taxpayer shall make a return to the city for the preceding month stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the month
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making such return, pay to the city, the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may,
if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   G.   Credit For Overpayment:
      1.   Credit Against Tax Due: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
      2.   Time Limit: No action to recover any amount of tax due under the
provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3) years after
the due date of such amount. (Ord. 715, 8-15-1955; amd. Ord. 1282, 7-1-1999)
   H.   Effective Date Of Tax:
      1.   Water And Gas Utilities Tax: The water and gas utilities tax
provided for herein shall be based on the "gross receipts", as defined in
subsection A of this section, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed
on or after September 1, 1955. (Ord. 715, 8-15-1955; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Electric Utility Tax: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-2, the rates set forth in subsection B4 of this section shall be effective
as follows: (Ord. 1282, 7-1-1999)
         a.   Residential Consumers: For residential consumers, the provisions
of subsection B4 of this section shall not be effective until August 1, 1999.
         b.   Nonresidential Consumers: For nonresidential consumers, the
provisions of subsection B3 of this section shall not be effective until the
consumer has the choice of the supplier of electrical energy but not later than
the last bill issued to the consumer before December 31, 2000. (Ord. 1282, 7-1-
1999; amd. 2006 Code)
   I.   Violation; Penalties: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who
makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due. (Ord. 715, 8-15-1955; amd. Ord. 1282, 7-1-1999; 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-3-3A2 of this code.
2 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-1-5: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association, not
incorporated under the laws of the state, to engage in the city in effecting
fire insurance, or to transact any business of fire insurance in the city,
while in default, by not fully complying with any of the requirements of this
section and until such requirements shall have been fully complied with, but
this provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or association from
the payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of this section.
      2.   No insurance agent in the city shall have any insurance business or
dealings with any company, association or corporation not incorporated under
the laws of this state, which shall be in default for not reporting or making
payments as herein provided, until it shall have complied with all the
requirements of this section.
   B.   Fee Required: Any such corporation, company or association not
incorporated under the laws of the state, which is engaged in the city in
effecting the fire insurance, shall pay the city treasurer, for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department of the city, a sum of money
equal in amount to two percent (2%) per annum of the gross receipts received as
premiums upon fire insurance policies by any and all agents of such
corporation, company or association, during the year ending on July 1 in each
year, for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected on property located
in the city, by or with such corporation, company or association during such
year.
   C.   Report Required; Payment Of Fee: Every person acting in the city as
agent, for or on behalf of any such corporation or association, shall, on or
before July 15 of each and every year, render the city clerk a full, true and
just account, verified by his oath, of all premiums upon fire insurance
policies which, during the year ending July 1 preceding such report, shall have
been received by him, or by some other person for him, in his behalf, of any
such corporation, company, or association on property located in the city. Such
agent shall also, at the time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the
city treasurer the sum of money for which company, corporation or association,
represented by him is chargeable, by virtue of the provisions of this section.
   D.   Failure To Pay Fee: The sum of money for which such company,
corporation or association is so chargeable may be recovered of it, or its
agents or agent, by an action in the name of and for the use of the city as for
money had and received. Nothing in this section shall be held to exempt any
person, corporation, company or association from indictment and conviction
under the provisions of an act entitled "an act to enable cities, towns and
villages organized under any general or special law, to levy and collect a tax
or license fee from foreign insurance companies for the benefit of organized
fire departments" 1 , in force July 1, 1895. (Ord. 462, 7-1-1937)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 462, 7-1-1937; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 215 ILCS 5/409.
3-1-6: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under the
provisions of 5-25 and 5-30 of the simplified municipal telecommunications act,
P.A. 92-0526, is five percent (5%). (2006 Code)
3-1-7: NONHOME RULE RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX (SALES
TAX):
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to impose a 3/4 of 1% nonhome
rule municipal retailers' occupation tax and a 3/4 of 1% nonhome rule municipal
service occupation tax, as authorized by and pursuant to Illinois statutes,
specifically 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.1 et seq.
   B.   Definitions: The definition of words used in this section shall have
the same meaning and definitions as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-1.1 et seq., including especially 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-
1.2.
   C.   Imposition Of Nonhome Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax:
      1.   Effective for taxable sales on and after July 1, 2011, there is
hereby imposed in the city of Carmi, Illinois, a nonhome rule municipal
retailers' occupation tax, pursuant to and as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-1.3, upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property, other than on an item of tangible personal property
which is titled and registered by an agency of Illinois government, at retail
in the city of Carmi, in the amount of 3/4 of 1% of gross receipts from such
sales made in the course of such business.
      2.   The nonhome rule municipal retailers' occupation tax imposed by this
section shall not be imposed on the sale of food for human consumption that is
to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic
beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate
consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical
appliances, and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles used by
diabetics, as provided in said 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.3.
      3.   The proceeds from said nonhome rule municipal retailers' occupation
tax shall be used only for expenditure on public infrastructure or for property
tax relief or both, as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.2.
   D.   Imposition Of Nonhome Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax:
      1.   Effective for taxable sales on and after July 1, 2011, there is
hereby imposed in the city of Carmi, Illinois, a nonhome rule municipal service
occupation tax, pursuant to and as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-11-1.4, upon all persons engaged, in the city of Carmi, in the business of
making sales of service, in the amount of 3/4 of 1% of the selling price of all
tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service.
      2.   The nonhome rule municipal service occupation tax imposed by this
section shall not be imposed on the sale of food for human consumption that is
to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic
beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate
consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical
appliances, and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles used by
diabetics, as provided in said 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.4.
      3.   The proceeds from said nonhome rule municipal service occupation tax
shall be used only for expenditure on public infrastructure or for property tax
relief or both, as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.2.
   E.   Limitations Of Taxes Imposed: With respect to the provisions of this
section imposing a nonhome rule municipal retailers' occupation tax and a
nonhome rule municipal service occupation tax, nothing in either subsection of
this section should be construed to impose a tax upon the privilege of engaging
in any business which under the constitution of the United States may not be
made the subject of taxation by the state of Illinois or by the city of Carmi.
   F.   Collection And Administration Of Taxes: Pursuant to state statute, the
state of Illinois department of revenue shall enforce the provisions of this
section by collecting said taxes pursuant to said statute, which department of
revenue shall transmit payment to the city of Carmi pursuant to said statutes.
   G.   Filing Of Ordinance With Illinois Department Of Revenue: The city clerk
is directed to file a certified copy of this section and any other required
documentation, with the Illinois department of revenue, in accordance with said
department's requirements before April 1, 2011, so said tax may commence on
July 1, 2011.
   H.   Statutory Authority: This section and the taxes imposed by this section
are authorized by Illinois statutes, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.1
et seq., and subsequent relevant amendments thereto shall also apply to this
section, to the extent required by or permitted by law. (Ord. 1429, 12-6-2010)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License; Approval Or Disapproval
3-2-4: Investigation Of Applicant Or Licensee
3-2-5: Bond
3-2-6: Prohibited Licensees
3-2-7: Classes Of Licenses; Fees And Number
3-2-8: Term Of License; Disposition Of Fees
3-2-9: Renewal Of License
3-2-10: Conditions Of License
3-2-11: Location And Premises Requirements
3-2-12: Sanitary Conditions
3-2-13: Underage Persons
3-2-14: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-2-15: Records Kept; Notice Of New Licenses
3-2-16: Violations; Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrase herein defined are
used in this chapter in the sense given them in the following definitions:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquids, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%) or less of alcohol by volume.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of the State or Federal
government, not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common
object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and
maintained by its members through the payment of annual dues.
CONVENIENCE FOOD STORE: Any public place maintained, operated, advertised and
held out to the public as a place where hot food, packaged foods, groceries and
other foodstuffs are regularly and routinely sold, and where the sale of such
items constitutes fifty percent (50%) or more of the gross receipts obtained at
the location which excludes from the gross receipts the sale of motor fuels.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests.
NUDE DANCING: Any person dancing with breast, genitals or buttocks exposed.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked, or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, such space being provided with adequate and
sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity, and having employed
therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve
food for its guests, and where more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross
receipts are obtained from the sale of foodstuffs; except, the term
"restaurant" shall not include a public place wherein liquor is sold for
consumption off the premises.
RETAILER: A person who sells or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, for a consideration, and includes all sales made by any person,
whether principal or proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: Said terms refer to and mean sales for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any fund-raising event, festival, carnival, concert, dance, or
other public activity sponsored by a current holder of a liquor license.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors, when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as defined in this
section. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or expose for sale, any
"alcoholic liquor", as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter, within the City, without having a license from the City
therefor. The Liquor Control Commissioner of the City may require an
application on any renewal date of any existing license. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Applications To Liquor Control Commissioner: Applications for a retail
liquor license shall be made to the Mayor, as Local Liquor Control Commissioner
of the City, in writing, on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk to the
applicant.
   B.   Submittal Of Application:
      1.   The application may be made by an individual or by a duly authorized
agent. If made by a club or corporation, the application must be verified by
oath or affidavit. The application shall contain the following information and
statements:
         a.   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual, and in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the names and addresses of the officers and
directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of such corporation or
club is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and address of such
person.
         b.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
         c.   The character of business of the applicant and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
         d.   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its charter was issued.
         e.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
         f.   Whether applicant has made similar application for a similar
other license on premises other than described in the application and the
disposition of such application.
         g.   That applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, or in this chapter, City ordinances or
resolutions, and amendments thereto.
         h.   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state
or subdivision thereof, or by the Federal government has been revoked, and the
reasons therefor.
         i.   That he will not violate any of the laws of the State or of the
United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter, City ordinances or
resolutions, and amendments thereto, in the conduct of his place of business.
      2.   In case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and
as to the president and secretary of the corporation with the location of the
principal office of the corporation.
      3.   If the application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two (2) members of such partnership, firm, association or club, or by
the president and secretary of such corporation.
   C.   Approval Or Disapproval Of License: One copy of the application shall
be retained by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and one copy given to the
Chief of Police.
      1.   The Chief of Police shall endorse on the copies his approval or
disapproval of the application and may make further comments regarding that
application. The copies shall be returned to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, and the endorsement and comment of the Chief of Police shall be
considered by him as an aid in deciding whether the license should be issued or
refused.
      2.   Upon the application being prepared and executed by the applicant,
the same shall be submitted to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner for
approval. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may withhold action on the
application for fifteen (15) days for investigation of the application file
before finally taking action thereon.
   D.   Contents Of License: Licenses shall state thereon the names of the
licensees and the address and description of the premises for which they are
granted and the dates of their issuance and expiration. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT OR LICENSEE:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or cause
to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served, and to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any
such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and take proof for purpose, and
to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the State. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner under this section, he may authorize his agent to act on his
behalf. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-5: BOND:
   A.   Bond Required: Each applicant for a license shall file with his
petition a joint and several bond executed by the applicant with not less than
two (2) good and sufficient sureties residing in the State or, in lieu thereof,
a surety company licensed to do business in the State, to be approved by the
Liquor Control Commissioner, in the penal sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), conditioned for the faithful observance by the licensee of the
laws of the State and of the United States relating to the sale of alcoholic
liquors and the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the City
relative to such sale.
   B.   Forfeiture Of Bond: If a licensee shall be convicted of the violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or of violating any law of this State
or of the United States relating to the sale of intoxicating liquor, or if his
license shall be revoked and no appeal is taken from said order of revocation,
or if any appeal taken therefrom shall be decided adversely to the licensee,
said bond may thereupon be declared forfeited by the Liquor Control
Commissioner, and the City shall be entitled to recover the penalty of such
bond by appropriate action in any court having jurisdiction. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-
2017)
3-2-6: PROHIBITED LICENSEES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section and in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12(a)(1), no license of any kind shall be issued
to:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of the City, except in case of
railroad or boat licenses.
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the City.
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or
State law, unless the State Commission determines that such person has been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering
matters set forth in such person's application and the commission's
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant.
      5.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
      7.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.
      8.   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      9.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason.
      10.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residency within the City.
      11.   A corporation or limited liability company, unless it is
incorporated or organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or
foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the Business
Corporation Act 1  or the Limited Liability Company Act 2  to transact business
in Illinois.
      12.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee.
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof or has forfeited his bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation.
      14.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
      15.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of Local
Liquor Control Commissions, any Mayor, Alderman, or member of the City Council
or Commission, any President of the Village Board of Trustees, any member of a
Village Board of Trustees, or any President or member of a County Board; and no
such official shall have a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; except, that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official, if the issuance of such license
is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission; and except, that a license
may be granted in the City to any Alderman or member of the City Council in
relation to premises that are located within the City if: a) the sale of
alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling of food;
b) the issuance of the license is approved by the State Commission; c) the
issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable City ordinances in
effect where the premises are located; and d) the official granted a license
does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues pending before the City Council.
Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection A15 to the contrary, an
Alderman or member of the City Council or Commission, a member of a Village
Board of Trustees other than the President of the Village Board of Trustees, or
a member of a County Board other than the President of a County Board may have
a direct interest in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor
as long as he or she is not a law enforcing public official, a Mayor, a Village
Board President, or President of a County Board. To prevent any conflict of
interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the manufacture,
sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor cannot participate in any meetings,
hearings, or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor.
      16.   Any person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      17.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed
by any of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), 5/28-1.1
or 5/28-3, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid
statutory provisions.
      18.   A person or entity to whom a Federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the Raffles Act 3  or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act
4 .
      19.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-21(a).
   B.   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to
the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship with each
director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall determine if all provisions of this subsection have been met
before any action on the corporation's license is initiated. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-
2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 2. 805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.
3 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01.
4 2. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
3-2-7: CLASSES OF LICENSES; FEES AND NUMBER:
   A.   Class B License: Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified of alcoholic liquor by the drink or in the original
package for consumption on the premises or retail sale of beer and wine for
consumption off the premises unless the license is a restaurant as restaurants
shall not sell for consumption off the premises, or otherwise, as provided by
law or otherwise. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), and there shall be no more than five (5) Class B licenses.
   B.   Class C License: Class C licenses shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified of alcoholic liquor in the original package for
consumption off the premises or, if there is video gaming area on the premises
which is licensed, the retail sale of beer and wine for consumption only within
the video gaming area on the premises. The annual fee shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and there shall be no more than two (2) Class C licenses.
   C.   Class D License: Class D licenses shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified by any charitable institution or organization of
alcoholic liquor by the drink or in the original package, for consumption on
the premises, or otherwise, as provided by law. The annual fee for such license
shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and there shall be no more than four
(4) Class D licenses.
   D.   Class E License: Class E licenses shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified, by a bowling alley only, of alcoholic liquor, by the
drink or in the original package, for consumption on the premises or otherwise,
as provided by law. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), and there shall be no more than one Class E license.
   E.   Class F License: Class F licenses shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises of a "restaurant only", of beer and wine only, for consumption on
the premises only. The annual fee for such license shall be three hundred
dollars ($300.00). There shall be no more than one Class F license.
   F.   Class G License: Class G licenses shall authorize the retail sale at a
convenience food store of only beer and wine in the original package for
consumption off the premises or, if there is a video gaming area on the
premises which is licensed, the retail sale of beer and wine for consumption
only within the video gaming area on the premises of a two (2) drink maximum.
The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and
there shall be no more than three (3) Class G licenses.
   G.   Class H Or Special Event License: Class H or special event license,
which shall authorize the retail sale and distribution of alcoholic liquor for
consumption at a special event as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter on the premises specified. The fee for obtaining such a
license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each twenty four (24) hour
period of operation. The application for the license shall describe the
premises, including the structure and approximate square footage upon which the
alcoholic liquors are to be sold at retail, and the period of time to be
covered by the license. The hours of the event shall be stated on the
application, subject to approval by the Liquor Control Commissioner, but in no
event shall the license be effective for more than a seven (7) day period. Only
a current holder of a liquor license may apply for a special event liquor
license. No license holder shall obtain a special event liquor license more
than four (4) times in any calendar year. The license holder must also obtain
any required State license if applicable. Notwithstanding any provision of this
section to the contrary, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold or distributed by
the holder of a special event license in violation of this chapter or any other
local ordinance or State regulation.
   H.   Main Street Limitations: In addition to the above, there shall be the
following limitations on liquor licenses on Main Street:
      1.   No more than four (4) Class B licenses.
      2.   No more than three (3) Class C licenses.
      3.   No more than one (1) Class E license. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017; amd.
Ord. 1539, 11-21-2017; Ord. 1563, 3-17-2020; Ord. 1617, 2-20-2024; Ord. 1623,
3-5-2024)
3-2-8: TERM OF LICENSE; DISPOSITION OF FEES:
Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter (except Class H licenses)
shall be valid for one year, upon the payment of the license fee as herein set
forth, unless sooner revoked or suspended. The twelve (12) month period shall
be from July 1 of each year to June 30 of the succeeding year. The annual
license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a license at the
time the application for a license is submitted to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner as herein provided. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in
proportion to the full calendar months which have expired since July 1 of the
license year, prior to the issuance of the license. In the event the license is
denied, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall be
deposited with the City Treasurer, who shall deposit such fees in the City
General Fund. Following the action taken on an application for a license, said
application shall be filed with the City Clerk. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
The licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided he is
then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought are suitable for such purposes; provided, that the renewal
privilege herein provided shall not be construed as a vested right, and may be
denied by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Days And Hours:
      1.   All Licensees:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee (except as noted below) to
sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the City between the
hours of eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on
Monday through Saturday, or at any time on Sundays. However, Class D licensees
and licensees which are restaurants may sell or offer for sale at retail any
alcoholic liquor in the City between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) P.M. and
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sundays.
         b.   It shall be unlawful to allow any patron to remain on the
premises or to admit the public to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor
is sold after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of any day, Monday through
Saturday, or at any time on Sunday.
         c.   No person, other than the licensee and one employee, may remain
upon any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold beyond twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on any Monday through Saturday, or at any time on Sunday.
         d.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter in or upon any
licensed premises to sell alcoholic liquor at retail in the City during the
prohibited hours.
         e.   Other provisions herein notwithstanding, the licensee and one
employee may remain upon the premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold
after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of any day, but not later than one
o'clock (1:00) A.M.
         f.   The Liquor Commissioner may extend said hour upon special
occasions at the Liquor Commissioner's discretion.
      2.   Restaurants: A restaurant may be kept open after these hours, but no
alcoholic liquor may be sold or consumed by the public.
      3.   Convenience Food Stores: A convenience food store may be operated
twenty four (24) hours each day, seven (7) days each week; provided, however,
that no alcoholic liquor may be offered, sold or consumed on the premises by
the public during the hours prohibited by subsection A1 of this section.
   B.   Display Of License: Every licensee shall cause his license to be framed
and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   C.   Display Of Birth Defects Warning Signs:
      1.   Every holder of a retail license, whether the licensee sells or
offers for sale alcoholic liquors for use or consumption on or off the retail
license premises, shall cause a sign with the message "GOVERNMENT WARNING:
ACCORDING TO THE SURGEON GENERAL, WOMEN SHOULD NOT DRINK ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
DURING PREGNANCY BECAUSE OF THE RISK OF BIRTH DEFECTS" to be framed and hung in
plain view. These signs shall be no larger than eight and one- half inches by
eleven inches (81/2" x 11").
      2.   In the event there is no warning sign posted on the retailer's
premises, it shall be the responsibility of the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission to furnish the retailer with a warning sign. The retailer shall have
thirty (30) days from receipt of the warning sign to post it on the licensed
premises. Thereafter, a retailer who violates this subsection is subject to a
written warning for the first violation. For a second or subsequent violation,
the retailer shall pay a fine of at least twenty dollars ($20.00) but not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such violation. For the third and
subsequent violations, each day the activity continues shall be a separate
violation.
   D.   Nontransferability Of License:
      1.   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for not to exceed twelve (12) months after issued, unless
sooner revoked as in this chapter authorized and provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
      2.   Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that
executors and administrators of any estate of the deceased licensee and the
trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under the order of the court having jurisdiction of such estate and may
exercise the privileges of such deceased, insolvent or bankrupt licensee, after
the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the
expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-11: LOCATION AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Locations:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for
aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any
military or naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to
hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
shall have been established for such purposes prior to the taking effect of
this chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or
school where such church or school has been established within such one hundred
feet (100') since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a
church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the
nearest part of any buildings used for worship services or educational programs
and not to property boundaries.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a license
to a church or private school to sell, at retail, alcoholic liquor if any such
sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely
for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of
alcoholic liquors.
   B.   Change Of Location: A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location
shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law of the State and this Code.
   C.   Lighting: All licensed premises are required to have, at a minimum,
five (5) foot-candles of light at a distance of thirty inches (30") from the
floor in all public areas of the premises.
   D.   Outdoor Seating Areas - Restaurants: Any restaurant serving alcoholic
liquor in outdoor areas on the premises shall cause said outdoor area to be
completely enclosed with a fence at least six feet (6') high as approved by the
Liquor Commissioner having at least one emergency exit. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-12: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Health Permit: Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid
operating permit from the County Health Department, which regulates health
standards.
   B.   Sanitary Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, or for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the
codes regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food
for human consumption.
   C.   Diseased Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used
for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with or
who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it
shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-13: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to attend any bar or to draw, pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor
in any licensed retail premises. However, any person who is eighteen (18) years
of age or older may deliver alcoholic liquor to the patrons of a restaurant.
   B.   Procuring Liquor For: No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor
to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   C.   Purchase Or Acceptance Of Liquor By; Possession Prohibited: Any person
to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic liquor, or
have such alcoholic liquor in his possession.
   D.   Notice Posted: In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed
card which shall be supplied by the City Clerk, and which shall read as
follows:
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750.00 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
CARMI IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   E.   Presence On Licensed Premises: No person to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age, either alone or
accompanied by an adult, shall enter or be suffered to remain in or on the
portion of licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or any room or
place adjoining the same where alcoholic liquors are sold or served. Except
that minors may, if in the company of a parent or guardian, be permitted to
enter the dining or family room of the holder of a restaurant for the purpose
of eating and consuming food, provided the minor is seated at least ten feet
(10') from the nearest portion of the bar. With respect to Class F licenses, a
minor cannot enter the room where liquor is being mixed, poured, prepared or
sold, unless the licensee has upon application, obtained permission from the
Liquor Commission to allow minors, in the company of a parent or guardian, to
enter such room, while the licensee is hosting a reception, party, or similar
special event. Under no circumstances can a minor be served alcoholic liquor in
a dining or family room, or any other room on the licensed premises.
   F.   Identification Required: If a licensee or his agents or employees
believe or have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic
liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient, he shall,
before making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of
positive identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in
the performance of his official duties. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-14: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Sales To Certain Persons: No licensee, nor any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or
deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years,
to any intoxicated person, or to any person known by him to be a habitual
drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient, or in need of
mental treatment.
   B.   Removal Of Liquor From Premises:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, take, carry, convey
or transport from any licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor not in the
original, unopened package.
      2.   No licensee, his agents, servants or employees shall permit or allow
any person to remove, take, carry, convey or transport from the licensed
premises any alcoholic liquor except in the original, unopened package.
      3.   Any alcoholic liquor sold, bartered, exchanged, given, provided,
furnished or dispensed by any licensee, his agents, servants or employees, in
other than the original, unopened package, shall be used, consumed or otherwise
disposed of only upon the interior of such licensed premises.
      4.   No licensee, his agents, servants or employees shall sell, barter,
exchange, give, provide, furnish or dispense to any person any alcoholic liquor
for consumption or use in any place or location except the interior of the
licensed premises unless such alcoholic liquor shall be in the original,
unopened package.
   C.   Peddling Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
City.
   D.   Disorderly Premises: A person licensed under this chapter shall not
suffer any disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games, or
riotous or disorderly conduct in any licensed premises kept or occupied by him
for the sale of alcoholic liquor.
   E.   Nude Dancing: No licensee shall permit any form of nude dancing to take
place upon the licensed premises.
   F.   Gambling: No gambling shall be permitted and no gambling device shall
be kept in any premises licensed or permitted pursuant to this chapter. This
prohibition, however, shall not apply to any game or gaming event for which a
license or permit has been issued by the Illinois Department of Revenue
pursuant to the Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 20/
1 et seq., the Bingo License and Tax Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/
1 et seq., the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/
1 et seq., or the Charitable Games Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et
seq., so long as such game or gaming event is conducted in compliance with all
requirements of said Acts and all rules and regulations of the Illinois
Department of Revenue.
   G.   Liquor In Automobiles: No person shall transport, carry, possess or
have any alcoholic liquor in or upon or about any motor vehicle except in the
original package and with the seal unbroken. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-15: RECORDS KEPT; NOTICE OF NEW LICENSES:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept, a
complete record of all licenses issued by him, and shall furnish the Clerk,
Treasurer and Chief of Police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of
any new license, or the revocation of any old license, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers
within forty eight (48) hours of such action. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
3-2-16: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Liability For Violations:
      1.   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such
owner, or other person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as said licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
      2.   Every act or omission of whatever nature constituting a violation of
the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally.
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License:
      1.   Upon violation by any licensee of any provision herein, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall have power to suspend for not more than
thirty (30) days or revoke all local licenses issued to persons for premises
within the City.
      2.   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this
chapter, the license of said licensee may, in the discretion of the Local
Commissioner, be revoked and forfeited, and all fees paid thereon shall be
forfeited, and it shall thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further
violation of this chapter for said licensee to continue to operate under said
license.
   C.   Penalties For Underage Persons:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, who purchases or
obtains any alcoholic liquor in any tavern, drugstore, or other place in the
City, where alcoholic liquor is sold, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each and every such offense.
      2.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, who misrepresents
his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in
any tavern, drugstore, or other place in the City where alcoholic liquor is
sold, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code for each and every such offense.
   D.   Penalty For Peddling: Any person who sells any alcoholic liquor
described in this chapter, without compliance with this chapter, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   E.   Penalties For Broken Seals:
      1.   Broken Seals In Public: Any person who removes, takes, carries,
conveys or transports from any licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor not in
the original, unopened package, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Broken Seal In Automobile: Any person who transports, carries,
possesses or has any alcoholic liquor in or upon or about any motor vehicle,
except in the original package and with the seal unbroken, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   F.   Penalties For Drunken Or Intoxicated Condition Or Drinking Alcohol On
Streets, Alleys Or Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for any person to be or
appear in a drunken or intoxicated condition or drink alcoholic liquor on the
streets, in the alleys, or on sidewalks or areas immediately adjacent thereto.
Any person who is in a drunken or intoxicated condition, or is drinking
alcoholic liquor on the streets, in the alleys, or sidewalks or areas
immediately adjacent thereto shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1529, 8-1-2017)
CHAPTER 3
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application For License; Investigation And Approval
3-3-4: License Fees
3-3-5: Term Of License; Disposition Of Fees
3-3-6: Gambling
3-3-7: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases herein defined are
used in this chapter in the sense given them in the following definitions:
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Consists of any pool table, pinball machine or
video games where a person must insert one or more coins or other forms of
money, or tokens, in order to play or participate in a game offered by the pool
table, pinball or video game, including, but not limited to, any pool table,
pinball machine or video game where the players or participants pay a fee to
play or participate in a game offered by the pool table, pinball machine or
video game, and where such a fee is collected by an operator and the game
activated by the operator.
PINBALL MACHINE: Any pinball or pinball machine, or marble machine, or any
other similar type of game or machine or table in which any ball, sphere,
missile, arm, crane, appliance, rod or plunger is struck, released, impelled,
controlled, or manipulated directly or indirectly for the purpose of amusement
or skill and in which a test of skill is involved, and for the playing of which
a fee is charged.
POOL TABLE: Any table or device designed and/or utilized to play pool or
billiards including, but not limited to, six (6) pocket billiard tables, pocket
billiards, billiards or bumper pool.
VIDEO GAME: Includes any electrical or mechanical device projecting targets,
obstacles or games upon a TV video screen and in which a player may manipulate
electronic responses to the obstacles, targets or games projected upon the
video screen. (Ord. 1040, 4-19-1982, eff. 6-1-1982)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be required that all coin operated amusement devices be licensed each
year. (Ord. 1040, 4-19-1982, eff. 6-1-1982)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Submittal Of Application; Contents: Applications for a license to
operate coin operated amusement devices shall be made to the city clerk, in
writing, on a form to be furnished by the city clerk to the applicant. The
application must state the full name of the operator, the operator's legal
business address, and the operator's business telephone number, and must fully
state and describe the nature and type of the coin operated amusement devices
to be operated.
   B.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon the application being prepared and
executed by the applicant, the same shall be submitted to the mayor for
approval. The mayor may withhold action on the application for ten (10) days
for investigation of the application file before taking action thereon. (Ord.
1040, 4-19-1982, eff. 6-1-1982)
3-3-4: LICENSE FEES:
For each coin operated amusement device or pool table, pinball machine or video
game operated for profit within the city, including any such device where a
player must pay some monetary consideration to play such device, an annual
license fee shall be imposed as follows:
   A.   Pool Tables: All pool tables shall be licensed for the sum of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per table, per year.
   B.   Pinball Machines: All pinball machines shall be licensed for the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year.
   C.   Video Games: All video game machines shall be licensed for the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year.
   D.   Other Table Games: All table games not heretofore mentioned in this
section shall be licensed for the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year,
per table game. (Ord. 1098, 7-15-1985, eff. 6-1-1986)
3-3-5: TERM OF LICENSE; DISPOSITION OF FEES:
A license issued under this chapter shall be valid for one year. The twelve
(12) month period shall be from June 1 of each year to May 31 of the succeeding
year. The annual license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a
license at the time the application for a license is submitted to the city
clerk as hereinafter provided. In the event the license is denied, the license
fee shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited with the
city treasurer, who shall deposit such fees in the city general fund. (Ord.
1040, 4-19-1982, eff. 6-1-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
3-3-6: GAMBLING:
No person is permitted to gamble or wage any bets for a money or other valuable
consideration on the outcome of any game played or any pool table, pinball
machine or video game licensed by this chapter. This prohibition, however,
shall not apply to any game or gaming event for which a license or permit has
been issued by the Illinois department of revenue pursuant to the pull tabs and
jar games act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 20/1 et seq., the bingo license
and tax act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 et seq., the Illinois video
gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., or the charitable
games act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq., so long as such game or
gaming event is conducted in compliance with all requirements of said acts and
all rules and regulations of the Illinois department of revenue. Any person
gambling on the outcome of a game played on a pool table, pinball machine or
video game except as permitted herein shall be guilty of a petty offense and
fined not in excess of thirty five dollars ($35.00), plus court costs. (Ord.
1457, 6-18-2012)
3-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any owner or operator violating any section of this chapter shall be guilty of
a petty offense and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus court costs. (Ord. 1040, 4-19-1982, eff. 6-1-1982;
amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: License Fees
3-4-5: Issuance Of License
3-4-6: Possession And Display Of License
3-4-7: Restrictions On License
3-4-8: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle used for the displaying, storing or transporting of
articles offered for sale by a vendor which is required to be licensed and
registered with the secretary of state of Illinois. The term is to include
trailers, trucks and automobiles.
PEDDLER: A. Every person who shall sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange,
at retail, any goods, wares or merchandise from a stationary stand or vehicle
or by traveling from place to place in, along and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys or public thoroughfares of the city, or who shall sell and deliver from
any vehicle goods, wares or merchandise by going from place to place in the
city, whether to regular customers or not.
   B.   The term "peddler" shall also mean every person who moves from house to
house or from place to place in the city selling or taking orders for goods,
wares, subscriptions or merchandise for future delivery.
   C.   The term "peddler" shall not include the following two (2) groups of
persons:
1. Farmers, fruit growers and gardeners who sell the produce of their farm,
orchard, or vineyard from a stand.
2. Sellers or deliverers of newspapers.
STAND: Any table, showcase, bench, rack, pushcart, wagon or any other wheeled
vehicle or device which may be moved without the assistance of a motor and
which is not required to be licensed and registered with the secretary of state
of Illinois. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person may engage in the business of a peddler without first obtaining a
license to do so. Any civic, patriotic, fraternal, educational, religious or
benevolent organization may obtain one license for the entire group to be held
and displayed by the president or leader of said organization. (Ord. 1050, 11-
1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a peddler's license shall be made in writing to the city
clerk who shall require the following:
   A.   The name of the individual applying for the license;
   B.   The residence, telephone number and driver's license number of the
applicant;
   C.   The address of the principal place of business of the applicant and his
telephone number;
   D.   If the applicant is employed by another person or entity, the name of
the employer, his address and telephone number;
   E.   The type of goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale;
   F.   The location where the applicant plans to sell his goods, wares or
merchandise;
   G.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a criminal offense or
ordinance violation (other than traffic or parking offenses) in any
jurisdiction and, if so, a list of such convictions with date and prosecuting
jurisdiction; and
   H.   Current state of Illinois sales tax certificate. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982,
eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Enumerated: The applicant shall pay the following fees to the city
clerk prior to filing an application. All fees shall be paid into the city's
general fund. Should the application be denied, the license fee shall be
refunded to the applicant: (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983; amd. 2006
Code)
      1.   Annual Fee: Fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar year or part
thereof. If the applicant is associated with a company or organization whose
member has previously paid a yearly fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), then this
applicant's fee will be twenty dollars ($20.00) for a calendar year or part
thereof.
      2.   Weekly Fee: Ten dollars ($10.00) for a seven (7) day license
beginning on the day of issuance and running for seven (7) consecutive days. If
the applicant is associated with a company or organization whose member has
previously paid a seven (7) day fee of ten dollars ($10.00), then this
applicant's fee will be four dollars ($4.00) for seven (7) days.
   B.   Exemptions From Fees: No fee shall be required when the applicant is a
group or person:
      1.   Who, without receiving any compensation for his services, solicits
contributions or sells goods, wares or merchandise for civic, patriotic,
fraternal, educational, religious or benevolent organizations;
      2.   Who sells goods, wares or merchandise on city owned public grounds
as part of an event which has been approved by the city clerk; and
      3.   Who sells at events which are sponsored by civic, patriotic,
fraternal, educational, religious or benevolent organizations goods, wares or
merchandise which they have made themselves such as handicrafts and home sewn
items. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The city clerk shall issue the license, running from the date of issuance until
December 31 of the calendar year, unless he shall find:
   A.   That the applicant has been convicted within the last five (5) years of
any offense relating to theft, burglary, or fraud; or
   B.   That the applicant or his employer has had a license issued pursuant to
this chapter revoked for cause. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-6: POSSESSION AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All licensees shall have in their possession at all times while engaging in
business as a peddler the license issued to them by the city and shall show it
to any person who requests to see it. Any civic, patriotic, fraternal,
educational, religious or benevolent organization may obtain one license for
the entire group to be held and displayed by the president or leader of said
organization. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-7: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
   A.   Hours: No one shall engage in the business of a peddler between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   B.   Location:
      1.   No peddler shall park or stand within two hundred feet (200') of a
playground or school during the time that organized recreational activities are
in progress.
      2.   No peddler shall sell or offer for sale goods, wares or merchandise
other than at the location approved by the city.
   C.   Sales From Vehicles: Whenever a peddler shall make sales from a
vehicle, the vehicle shall be stopped at the right hand curb of the street or
at the extreme right hand edge of the pavement. No sales shall be made from any
vehicle except from the curb side thereof.
   D.   Peddling At Residences:
      1.   No person shall engage in the business of peddling at any residence
at which there is displayed upon or near the main entrance door a weatherproof
card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4"), which states one of
the following:
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   or
   NO PEDDLERS INVITED
or words to the same effect. Lettering on such signs shall be at least one-
third inch (1/3") in height.
      2.   No peddler shall remain at any residence after being asked by an
occupant to leave.
   E.   Unattended Stands: No peddler shall leave any stand unattended.
   F.   Stands Overnight On Public Ways: No peddler shall store, park or leave
any stand overnight on any street, sidewalk or public right of way.
   G.   Parking Vehicles: No peddler shall park any motor vehicle other than in
a lawful parking place in conformance with city and state parking regulations.
   H.   Garbage And Refuse:
      1.   All peddlers selling food and beverages for immediate consumption
shall have available for public use their own litter receptacle which is
available for use by their patrons.
      2.   No peddler shall leave his location without first picking up,
removing and disposing of all trash or refuse from the sales made by him.
   I.   Soliciting Persons In Vehicles: No peddler shall solicit or conduct
business with persons in motor vehicles.
   J.   Items To Be Sold: No peddler shall sell anything other than that which
he stated in his license application. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-8: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Conditions For Revocation Or Suspension: Any peddler's license may be
revoked, or suspended for a period not to exceed one year, by the city clerk,
if the city council shall find after a hearing:
      1.   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter, the laws of the state, or the ordinances of the city while engaged in
the business as a peddler, other than traffic or parking offenses.
      2.   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for a peddler's
license or an investigation into any such license.
   B.   Hearing: Prior to holding a hearing concerning the question of whether
a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked or suspended, the
city clerk shall give at least ten (10) days' written notice to the licensee
setting forth the alleged violations specifically. The licensee may present
evidence at such hearing and cross examine witnesses. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982,
eff. 1-1-1983)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person who fails to obtain a license in violation of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1050, 11-1-1982, eff. 1-1-1983; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Permit Required
3-5-2: Application For Permit; Fee
3-5-3: Consideration Of Application; Hearing
3-5-4: Issuance Of Permit
3-5-5: Conditions Of Permit
3-5-6: Term Of Permit
3-5-7: Revocation Of Permit
3-5-8: Nuisance Declared
3-5-9: Violations; Penalty
3-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No oil or gas well or other facility used directly in the production of oil or
gas shall be established, drilled, operated or commenced in the city until the
operator or other responsible person in charge shall have obtained a permit
issued in compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Anyone desiring a permit under this chapter shall submit an application under
oath stating the exact location of the proposed well location or installation,
the distance to any structures on adjacent premises and the type of structures
involved, the exact nature of the operation for which permit is requested,
including pits, tanks, etc., the area unitized, or intended to be unitized and
which will be served by the well, the amount of the area under lease to the
applicant, and the term of the lease, and the name and address of the
applicant, operator or other persons who will be responsible for the operation.
A one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee will be paid the city clerk at the time of
the filing of the application. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
3-5-3: CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION; HEARING:
The city council shall consider the information contained in the application
and such other information relating to the health, safety and welfare of the
city, including, but not by way of limitation, fire hazard, safety of citizens,
especially children, traffic hazard, appearance of community, nuisance to
nearby inhabitants, amount of unleased property in unitized area, size of
unitized area, location and effect on utility facilities, specific plan of
operator for location of rig, pits, tanks, and other facilities, effect on
streets, and other relevant information. The council may, at its discretion,
require answers under oath to questions in this regard to be attached to the
application for permit or may hold a hearing, or delegate the holding of a
hearing, as it sees fit. Statements by the applicant or his representative at
such a hearing shall be deemed a part of the application. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
3-5-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
If the city council is of the opinion that the issuance of a permit is not
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the city, it may issue a
permit to the applicant. The vote to issue a permit shall be as for any
resolution. No more than one permit per pool shall be issued for each block.
The permit shall be issued by the city clerk. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
3-5-5: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
The city council shall have the power to condition the issuance of a permit in
such a way as to require certain standards to be met; types of equipment to be
used; locations to be conformed to; time schedules for operation to be adhered
to; bond to be posted for individual or corporate damage; health, welfare and
safety measures to be complied with; damages or other monies to be paid to the
city in the event property will be damaged or additional city expense shall be
incurred; or other measures deemed reasonably necessary for the health, safety
or welfare of the city. Any applicant who commences operation under a permit
issued will be conclusively deemed to have accepted the conditions of the
permit. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
3-5-6: TERM OF PERMIT:
The permit shall be issued for such period as the council shall direct, but
shall not exceed the term of the shortest lease in the unitized area. If no
term is stated, it shall be for ninety (90) days and as long thereafter as oil
or gas is produced. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
3-5-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The city council may, by resolution, revoke any permit issued when the
applicant has made false material statements in his application and additional
information requested. The permit shall be valid up to the date of revocation.
(Ord. 762, 9-6-1960; amd. 2006 Code)
3-5-8: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any oil or gas well or other facility described herein operated without a valid
permit under this chapter or in a manner materially varying from the
description in the application and other information submitted or the
conditions of the permit is declared a public nuisance. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
3-5-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   False Statements Deemed Perjury: Any applicant who makes a false
statement in his application for a permit, to include all answers subsequently
given pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of perjury as provided by the laws of
the state. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960)
   B.   Penalty: Any operator, driller, owner of a leasehold, or portion
thereof, or person actively engaged in operations defined herein who operates
any installation described in this chapter without a permit shall be, upon
conviction, fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Every day upon which such violation
shall occur or upon which such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 762, 9-6-1960; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License
3-6-3: Application
3-6-4: Validity Of License
3-6-5: Ineligibility For License
3-6-6: Not For Profit Organizations
3-6-7: Limitations
3-6-8: Fees
3-6-9: Approval
3-6-10: Conduct Of Raffles
3-6-11: Records
3-6-12: Manager's Bond
3-6-13: Suspension/Revocation
3-6-14: Punishment
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civil
interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of a higher degree of efficiency in their
respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, license fees, and other reasonable operating expenses
incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NON-PROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the "Criminal Code
of 1961", conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one (1) or more of which chances is to be designated the
winning chance;
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for the
purposes of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of whom
substantially all are individuals who are veterans of military service, the
primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to confer a public
benefit. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-2: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall
conduct raffles or chances without having first obtained a license therefor
pursuant to this chapter and the "Raffles Act". (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Applications shall be made in writing through the City Clerk's Office
at least thirty (30) days prior to the first day intended for sale of the
raffle chances. The application shall be on a form furnished by the City Clerk.
   B.   Applications for licenses under this chapter must contain the following
information:
      1.   Name of applicant.
      2.   Address.
      3.   Purpose of raffle.
      4.   Area within the City where the raffle is to be conducted.
      5.   Time period during which chances will be sold or issued.
      6.   Sworn statement attesting to not-for-profit character of the
prospective license organization, signed by the presiding officer and secretary
of the organization.
      7.   Date, time and location at which winning chances will be determined.
      8.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be
awarded by a single raffle.
      9.   The maximum retail value of each prize or each specific type of
prize to be awarded by a license in a single raffle.
      10.   The maximum to be charged for each raffle chance and the number of
chances to be issued for each raffle.
      11.   The name(s) and address(es) of the operator of the raffle if not an
officer or member of the applicant organization. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-4: VALIDITY OF LICENSE:
Each such license shall be valid for one (1) raffle or for a specified number
of raffles during a specified period not to exceed one (1) year, and may be
suspended or revoked by the Corporate Authorities in the event of violation of
the terms of this chapter or of any applicable State law. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection A1,
A2, or A3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A1, A2, or
A3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not;
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A1, A2, or
A3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in the "Raffles Act". (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-6: NOT FOR PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide non-profit religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations as defined
in section
3-6-1 of this chapter which operate without profit to their members and which
have been in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately
before making application for a license and which have had during that entire
five (5) year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their
objectives, or to a non-profit fund raising organization that the licensing
authority determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardships as the result of an illness, disability, accident
or disaster. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-7: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle under this chapter and in accordance with
applicable State law is limited to two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00).
   B.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle is limited to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
   C.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold is limited to one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   D.   The maximum number of days during which raffle chances may be issued or
sold for any one (1) raffle shall be one (1) year.
   E.   Licenses issued shall be valid for one (1) raffle or for a specified
number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period not to exceed one
(1) year and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the "Raffles Act"
or this chapter. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-8: FEES:
The fee for such a license to conduct a raffle shall be five dollars ($5.00).
(Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-9: APPROVAL:
The City of Carmi shall, within thirty (30) days, evaluate and either approve
or disapprove of said application. The City's approval of an application for a
license shall constitute the license for the conduct of the raffle applied for
by the applicant. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-10: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Proceeds: The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively
devoted to the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that
game.
   B.   Participation In Management: No person except a bona fide member of the
sponsoring organization may participate in the management or operation of the
raffle.
   C.   Remuneration: No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   Premises: A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the
winning chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also
licensed under this chapter.
   E.   Locations: Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area
specified on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified on the license.
   F.   Age Of Participants: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may
participate in the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of
eighteen (18) years may be within the area where winning chances are being
determined only when accompanied by his/her parent or guardian.
   G.   Location For Determining Winning Chance(s): The location of the
premises on which to determine the winning chance or chances in a raffle shall
be restricted to a business district, commercial district or where a special
use permit has been granted for a school, church, government or similar
institution. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-11: RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
such records and shall also keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which chances are
determined.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the State
of Illinois, and shall be placed in a separate account. Each organization shall
have separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be
the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the City of
Carmi, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the
distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   D.   Records required by this section shall be preserved three (3) years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-
2016)
3-6-12: MANAGER'S BOND:
All operations of and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager or operator
of the raffle must be a bona fide member of the organization holding the
license for such a raffle and may not receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in the sum of the total value of the prizes to be awarded
in the raffle conditioned upon his/her honesty in the performance of his/her
duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing
to the City not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. The City
may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver provision in the license
issued to an organization under this chapter, provided that a license
containing such waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the
members of the City Council. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-13: SUSPENSION/REVOCATION:
Any license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the City
at any time it appears that the proposed or actual operation of the raffle will
be or is such as to constitute a public nuisance or to endanger the public
peace, health, safety or welfare. Any license granted under this chapter may be
suspended or revoked in whole or in part at any time that the raffle is
conducted contrary to the license or to any State or City law, or when such
raffle or portion thereof is conducted so as to constitute a public nuisance or
to disturb the peace, health, safety or welfare. Suspension or revocation shall
become effective immediately. It shall be a violation for any person to
operate, engage or participate in, except as a patron, any raffle which license
has been suspended or revoked. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
3-6-14: PUNISHMENT:
Any raffle permit issued under this chapter shall be revoked or suspended if
the permit holder violates any terms of the license or any other provisions of
this chapter. Any violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine up to
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that a violation hereof exists
shall be considered a separate offense. Each raffle held in violation hereof
shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 1505, 7-5-2016)
CHAPTER 7
TOBACCO PRODUCT AND CANNABIS SALES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Tobacco, Tobacco Products, Electronic Cigarettes And Alternative
Nicotine Products
3-7-2: Cannabis
3-7-3: Penalties
3-7-1: TOBACCO, TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES AND ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS:
   (A)   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall buy any tobacco,
tobacco product, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products in the
City of Carmi White County, Illinois.
   (B)   No person, regardless of age, shall sell, buy for, distribute samples
of or furnish any tobacco, tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products to any minor under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (C)   No person under sixteen (16) years of age may sell any tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product at a retail
establishment authorized in selling tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products. This subsection does not apply to a sales clerk
in a family-owned business which can prove that the sales clerk is in fact a
son or daughter of the owner.
   (D)   No minor under twenty-one (21) years of age in the furtherance or
facilitation of obtaining any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product shall display or use a false or forged
identification card or transfer, alter, or deface an identification card.
   (E)   No minor under twenty-one (21) years of age shall possess any cigar,
cigarette, smokeless tobacco, tobacco in any form, electronic cigarette or
alternative nicotine product in any of its forms.
   (F)   Definitions: As used in this chapter:
 
                               A product or device not consisting of or
                               containing tobacco that provides for the
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS: ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by
                               chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving,
                               inhaling, snorting, sniffing, or by any other
                               means.
                               E-cigarettes, vapes, vape or hookah pens, vape
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE:          pens, e-pipes, other vaping products, and any
                               battery-powered devices that allow users to
                               inhale, or vape, aerosolized liquid (e-juice).
SMOKELESS TOBACCO:             Any tobacco products that are suitable for
                               dipping or chewing.
                               Any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco, or
TOBACCO PRODUCT:               tobacco content in any of its forms. (Ord. 1562,
                               8-4-2020)
 
3-7-2: CANNABIS:
   (A)   No persons under twenty-one (21) years of age shall purchase, possess,
use, process, transport, grow, or consume cannabis except where authorized by
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   (B)   Definitions: As used in this chapter:
 
          Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified
          as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
          or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such
          plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
CANNABIS: preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin, including
          tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives,
          including its naturally occurring or synthetically produced
          ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction,
          or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
          of extraction and chemical synthesis. (Ord. 1562, 8-4-2020)
 
3-7-3: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the first offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for a second or subsequent offense. (Ord. 1562, 8-4-2020)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created; Members
4-1-2: Officers
4-1-3: Compensation
4-1-4: Powers And Duties Of Fire Chief And Assistants
4-1-5: Duties Of Secretary
4-1-6: Bond And Duties Of Treasurer; Department Funds
4-1-7: Duties Of Department Members
4-1-8: Obedience And Aid During Fires
4-1-9: Traffic Regulations During Fires
4-1-10: Fire Department Equipment
4-1-11: Fire Service For Non-Residents
4-1-12: Enforcement
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; MEMBERS:
There is hereby created and established a Fire Department consisting of a Fire
Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, two Captains, a Secretary/Treasurer, and such
members of said Fire Department as may from time to time be determined and
appointed by the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-2: OFFICERS:
   A.   Fire Chief: The fire chief of the city fire department shall hereafter
be appointed and employed by the mayor with the consent of the city council.
   B.   Other Officers: The fire department shall meet the third Wednesday in
June and at this meeting shall elect one assistant fire chief, from their
members, and if any vacancies in membership occur, said vacancies shall be
filled by voting from names submitted by the fire chief. These officers and
members shall be approved by the mayor and city council. After approval and
qualifying, these officers shall take office the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in July. Captains shall be appointed by the Fire Chief upon taking
command, and Captains shall serve a term of two years. (Ord. 997, 5-19-1980;
amd. ; 2006 Code; Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Salaried Positions: The salary of the fire chief shall be fifteen
hundred dollars ($1500.00) per month; the salary of the assistant fire chief
shall be four hundred dollars ($400.00) per month; the salary of the secretary/
treasurer of the fire department shall be twenty-three hundred dollars
($2300.00) per month; any captain shall receive two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) each month all payable by the city treasurer from the city general
fund. Each salaried member, upon willfully and diligently carrying out the
duties in extinguishing a fire or performing other duties warranted by call
sheet, shall be paid the sum of sixty dollars ($60.00) per call sheet by the
City of Carmi general funds.
   B.   Firefighters: Payment to volunteers shall be on a Per Call Basis and
shall cover Expenses, Reasonable Benefits, and a Nominal Fee in accordance with
the Department of Labor’s Fair Labor Standards Act.
      1.   Probationary members shall receive thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per
fire call and for all other duties warranted by call sheet.
      2.   Full members shall receive fifty dollars ($50.00) per fire call and
for all other duties warranted by call sheet. Full members shall also receive
for themselves and their household family members access to the Tri-State
Community Clinic, paid for by the City of Carmi.
   C.   Multiple Department Response: Any fire fighter who is a member of the
Carmi Fire Department, along with another department, will be paid by the first
department for which they first respond.
   D.   City of Carmi Employees: Article XIX Section 19.6 Volunteer Fireman of
the City of Carmi’s AFSCME Union Contract clearly states; “Any City of Carmi
employee who is a member of the City of Carmi volunteer fire department shall
be paid his/her normal rate of pay if he/she is called to respond to a fire
call while on duty with the City. No employee will be eligible for overtime
payment if the call extends beyond the employee’s normal quitting time or the
employee is called to respond outside of his/her normal time to work.”
   E.   Changes to Compensation:
      1.   Any proposed changes by the City of Carmi to the compensation of the
Carmi Fire Department must gain prior approval by vote of the full members of
the Carmi Fire Department and upon adoption be updated within the By-Laws of
the Carmi Volunteer Fire Company.
      2.   Any proposed changes by the Carmi Fire Department to the
compensation of the Carmi Fire Department must gain prior approval by vote of
the Carmi City Council and upon adoption be updated within the By-Laws of the
Carmi Volunteer Fire Company. (Ord. 711, 5-2-1955; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 1616,
2-6-2024)
4-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANTS:
   A.   Appoint Department Members: The fire chief shall, upon taking office,
appoint such personnel and prescribe such duties as may be necessary and proper
in the organization and effective operation of the fire department during that
year.
   B.   Control And Supervision of Department: The fire chief shall have the
control and supervision, subject to the order and direction of the city
council, of the fire department and all fire apparatus and equipment belonging
to the city.
   C.   Command At Fires: In case of fire, the fire chief and his assistants,
in their order of rank, shall take command at such fire, and the officer
highest in rank shall take command of the fire department and direct the
management thereof for the suppression of the fire in the best manner possible,
and when it may be necessary for protection of other property to prevent the
spread of the conflagration, the officer in command may cause buildings to be
removed, torn down, or destroyed in the best manner possible.
   D.   Drills: It shall also be the duty of the fire chief to call drill
meetings as he sees fit.
   E.   Further Details and Duties: A detailed description of job duties shall
be kept up to date in the department’s by-laws and/or standard operating
guidelines. (Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-5: DUTIES OF SECRETARY:
The secretary shall keep a record of all meetings of the department and the
attendance of the members, a record of all fires and the attendance of the
members at such fires, and, during the last week of June of each year, file
with the city clerk, a full report of such record of attendance and fires which
said report shall be made under oath. He shall also keep such other records,
make such reports, and keep and furnish such statistics as may be required by
him by law. (Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-6: BOND AND DUTIES OF TREASURER; DEPARTMENT FUNDS:
   A.   Bond: The treasurer, before taking office, shall execute and file with
the city clerk, a sufficient bond to the city, to be approved by the mayor and
city council, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties under this
chapter.
   B.   Department Funds:
      1.   Money collected on behalf of the firefighters, such as dues,
donations and fundraising, shall be deposited into the Carmi Fireman’s
Association account.
      2.   Money collected in regard to fire department response shall be
deposited into the City of Carmi’s General Fund as required by the Illinois
Municipal Code.
      3.   Money collected in accordance with the Foreign Fire Insurance
License Fee shall be deposited into the Foreign Fire Board account as required.
   C.   Reports Required: The treasurer shall make monthly reports to the fire
department of the condition of the funds in his hands and shall, on the first
Tuesday of December in each year, make a sworn report and statement to the
mayor and city council of al! monies received and disbursed by him as such
treasurer and the balance of monies in his hands.
   D.   Books, Records and Accounts:
      1.   The books, records and accounts of the treasurer shall be faithfully
kept and shall, at ail times, be open to inspection and audit of the mayor and
city council.
      2.   The treasurer shall, at the expiration of his term of office,
surrender, pay and deliver to his successor in office, all books, records,
accounts and monies in his hands as treasurer. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. 1616, 2-6-
2024)
4-1-7: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
It shall be the function and duties of the fire department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or ^destructive fires, to prevent the
occurrence or spread of fires, and to enforce all ordinances relating to the
occurrence or spread of such fires. (Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-8: OBEDIENCE AND AID DURING FIRES:
   A.   Obedience To Command During Fires: No firefighter in attendance at a
fire shall neglect or refuse to obey the orders of the officer in command at
such fires.
   B.   Aid During Fires:
      1.   Every person above the age of twenty-one who shall be present at a
fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer in command at such fire and
shall render all the assistance in his power and in such manner as he may be
directed in the extinguishing of the fire, and in the removal of and protection
of property, he shall obey such orders. In refusing to do so, said person
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code, provided no person shall be bound to obey any such
officer, unless such officer’s official character shall be known to such
person.
      2.   It shall be lawful for the fire chief or any assistant or other
person in command at a fire to require any person eighteen (18) years of age or
older to assist the department during a fire, and any such person who shall
refuse to render such assistance, when within his power to do so, shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-9: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS DURING FIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any automobile, truck or other vehicle to pass from
behind or to follow a firetruck within five hundred feet (500') when such
firetruck is on its way to a fire or stop such vehicle within five hundred feet
(500') of any fire apparatus stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (Ord. 692, 7-7-
1952; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-10: FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Unlawful Use Of Equipment: Whoever shall use any fire engine, hose,
cart, or any other apparatus belonging to the city for any private purpose,
other than the extinguishing of fires, or whoever shall remove the same or any
part thereof from its place of deposit, or, having the control thereof, shall
permit such engine, hose, cart, or other apparatus to be used for any private
purposes other than aforesaid, shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1  of this code.
   B.   Damage To Equipment: Whoever shall willfully or negligently break,
deface, or in any manner injure or interfere with the use of the equipment of
the fire department shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section 1-
4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1616, 2-6-2024)
4-1-11:FIRE SERVICE FOR NON-RESIDENTS:
   A.   Mutual Aid Agreements: The mayor and city clerk are hereby authorized
to make and enter into agreements with corporations or organizations outside of
the city limits under the terms of which compensation in an adequate amount
shall be paid for services rendered by the fire department, and all such
agreements shall contain a clause that the city shall in nowise and under no
circumstances be held liable for any loss or damage by reason of its failure to
extinguish fires within the territory described in any such agreement. All such
agreements so entered into shall be submitted to the city council for approval.
All such agreements shall contain a clause permitting the termination of the
agreement upon six (6) months’ notice.
   B.   Non-Resident Billing: The following recitals, definitions, billing
procedures, fees, procedures for non- compliance, and severability sections
shall apply to all non-resident services called for by the department.
      1.   Recitals:
         a.   WHEREAS, the City of Carmi, Illinois, (the “City”) may render
firefighting and other emergency response services and supplies to non-
residents and others who by operation of law can be required to pay for
services in specific circumstances.
         b.   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Carmi recognizes that
the Carmi Fire Department incurs certain costs and expenses when being called
upon for motor vehicle accidents and motor vehicle fires that are recoverable
from the individual, or their insured, for both residents and non-residents
under certain circumstances.
         c.   WHEREAS Section 11-6-10 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65ILCS 5/
11-6-10 states “(a) Municipalities may fix, charge, and collect fees not
exceeding the reasonable cost of the service for all services rendered by a
volunteer municipal fire department or a volunteer firefighter of any municipal
fire department for persons, businesses, and other entities who are not
residents of the municipality.” and “(b) The charge for any fees under
subsection (a) shall be computed at a rate not to exceed $250 per hour and not
to exceed $70 per hour per firefighter responding to a call for assistance. An
additional charge may be levied to reimburse the district for extraordinary
expenses of materials used in rendering such services.”
         d.   WHEREAS, Section 11-6-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS
5/11-6-5, permits the City, under appropriate circumstances, to “fix, charge,
and collect reasonable fees for specialized rescue services” provided by the
City.
         e.   WHEREAS, Section 11-6-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS
5/11-6-6, permits the City to “fix, charge, and collect reasonable fees for
technical rescue services” provided by the City.
         f.   WHEREAS, the Hazardous Material Emergency Response Reimbursement
Act, 430 ILCS 55/1 et seq., authorizes the City to recover costs incurred by
the City for an emergency response to a hazardous material emergency incident.
         g.   WHEREAS, Section 22.2 of the Environmental Protection Act, 415
ILCS 5/22.2, permits the City to recover costs incurred for removal or remedial
action as a result of a release or substantial threat of a release of a
hazardous substance or pesticide.
         h.   WHEREAS, the City renders firefighting and emergency response
services on public and private property within or outside the City’s corporate
limits to resident and non-resident persons, businesses and other entities in
the performance of its obligations to the public and the provision of such
services is costly to the City and its taxpayers.
         i.   WHEREAS, the City has or may enter into in the future mutual and/
or automatic aid intergovernmental agreements for the provision of firefighting
and emergency response services outside the corporate limits of the City.
         j.   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Carmi finds that it is
authorized by Illinois law and in the best interests of the City to establish a
schedule of charges for services and to charge and collect such amounts as
permitted by law.
         k.   Ordinance #461 Section 10 (a) was previously amended by Ordinance
#1416. Ordinance #1416 is hereby further amended to read as follows:
         l.   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CARMI, WHITE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
         m.   The City Council hereby finds that the recitals contained in the
preambles are true and correct and incorporates them into this Ordinance by
this reference.
      2.   Definitions: The following words shall have the meanings set forth
herein.
         a.   Non-resident-any person who does not permanently reside within
the boundaries of the City of Carmi, Illinois.
         b.   Resident - any person permanently residing within the City of
Carmi city limits.
         c.   Person - any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, firm,
company, estate, association, or other legal entity.
         d.   Services - including, but not limited to, requested fire
department dispatch, fire protection, fire suppression, emergency response,
motor vehicle suppression, collision or accident response, vehicle extraction,
rescue services, water recovery response, any response to spillage or release
of any hazardous materials, any threat of spillage or release of hazardous
materials, and any other situation where the Carmi Fire Department responds.
         e.   Specialized Rescue Services - includes, but is not limited to,
structural collapse, tactical rescue, high angle rescue, underwater rescue and
recovery, confined space rescue, below grade rescue, and trench rescue.
         f.   Technical Rescue Services - includes, but is not limited to,
services provided for confined space, high angle, below grade, and trench
incidents.
         g.   Careless - not taking reasonable care of, and including
disregarding the safety of others viii. Incendiary Act - An act of purposely
setting fire.
         h.   Malicious Act - An act of intentional wrongfulness without
justification or excuse.
         i.   Negligence - Acting in a careless manner, not taking steps that a
reasonable person would do.
         j.   Stand-by- Any time in which the fire department is requested or
required to be available specifically for or at an event.
         k.   False Alarm - A false report to dispatch or a firefighter of a
need for fire services.
         l.   Questionable Candidates - Persons whose circumstances surrounding
their service call may be questionable for billing under this ordinance, and a
discussion for clarity is needed for determination.
      3.   Billing Procedures: The Fire Chief or Officer in Charge at the scene
shall determine the name and address of the person receiving services at the
time services are rendered. The Fire Chief and Department Secretary shall
determine if such person(s) is a candidate for billing under this ordinance.
Questionable candidates shall be referred to the City Clerk and Mayor to
discuss the determination. Upon determination to bill, the Department Secretary
shall prepare and send an invoice for the fees and charges to the person(s)
receiving the services. All such fees and charges shall be due and payable to
the City of Carmi within thirty days of the statement date. Upon request of the
person receiving services, the Department Secretary shall arrange a payment
schedule without penalty. As may be appropriate under the circumstances, the
City shall pursue payment for services in accordance with mutual and/or
automatic aid intergovernmental agreements or state or federal law, regulation
or rule.
      4.   Fees: The fees for services provided by the Carmi Fire Department
shall be in accordance with Illinois Compiled Statutes whenever such Statutes
clearly establish fees.
         a.   Non-resident fire services shall be billed according to the
following fee schedule for each and every run the department makes for service
to any non-resident of the City of Carmi:
 
Fire Vehicle/Apparatus Charge (per hour)           $250
Volunteer Firefighter (per hour / per firefighter) $70
Foam Concentrate (per gallon)                      Billed At Current Cost
*Materials                                         Billed At Current Cost
 
         b.   *The current cost of all materials and equipment expended,
depleted, destroyed, or removed from service in accordance with NFPA Standards
and any applicable state, local, or federal laws as a result of the call.
         c.   Any person, resident or non-resident, who acts in a negligent,
careless, malicious, or incendiary manner requiring services from the Carmi
Fire Department shall be held liable to pay restitution to the City of Carmi
for services rendered according to the following fee schedule:
 
Extraction from Vehicle            $750
Extinguishing Motor Vehicle Fire   $750
Response to Incident Caused by DUI $1000
Malicious False Alarm              $500
 
         d.   After being found at fault, any person, resident or non-resident,
who requires specialized rescue services from the Carmi Fire Department shall
be held liable to pay restitution to the City of Carmi for services rendered
according to the following fee schedule:
 
Vehicle/Apparatus Charge (per vehicle / per hour  $125
Volunteer Firefighter (per hour / per firefighter $35
 
         e.   After being found at fault, any person, resident or non-resident,
who requires a hazardous materials response from the Carmi Fire Department
shall be held liable to pay restitution to the City of Carmi for services
rendered in the actual costs incurred in the course of providing emergency
action.
         f.   Fire Company stand-by requested or required for any non-city
sponsored event shall be required to make restitution to the City of Carmi for
the cost of such standby, unless such stand-by request is covered by a mutual
aid agreement.
         g.   Hourly fee time calculations shall start when the Carmi Fire
Department receives the call for dispatch, and time shall end when all vehicles
and personnel return to the fire station.
         h.   All charges shall be rounded to the next full hour.
         i.   Invoices for services shall be sent to the person(s) who received
such services and may be submitted by such person(s) to their insurance carrier
for payment via claim.
         j.   Any invoice submitted to a non-resident but not fully covered by
the insurance carrier remains the responsibility of the person(s) receiving
service.
         k.   All funds collected shall be deposited into the General Fund of
the City of Carmi.
      5.   Non-Compliance: Invoices for services which remain unpaid shall be
referred to the City Attorney for collection after a third and final notice.
Any person who fails to pay the invoice for services shall be liable for all
fees and charges due to the City and shall also pay the City’s reasonable
attorneys’ fees and expenses and costs, including, but not limited to, any
applicable court costs, incurred in collection of the amounts owed to the City.
(Ord. 745, 12-1-1958; amd. Ord. 1416, 12-7-2009, eff. 1-15-2010; Ord. 1616, 2-
6-2024)
4-1-12: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of all officers of the fire department and all police
officers of the city to see that the provisions of this chapter are enforced
and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey any
such officer in the discharge of his duty, and to that end, all such officers
are hereby vested with the usual power and authority of police officers. (Ord.
1616, 2-6-2024)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Fireworks
4-2-2: Open Burning
4-2-3: Vented Gas Appliances
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-1-1E of this code for fire prevention code.
4-2-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and
shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the
type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs, or other fireworks
of like construction, and any fireworks containing any explosive compound, or
any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, or containing
combustible substances producing visual effects.; provided, however, that the
term "fireworks" shall not include snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices;
sparklers; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby traps",
"snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads" and "auto burglar alarms"; toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grains or less of explosive compound
are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion, and toy pistol paper or plastic
caps which contain less than twenty five hundredths (0.25) grains of explosive
mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times. (Ord. 682,
8-6-1951; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Sales And Use Of Fireworks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or
use or explode any fireworks within the city; provided, that the city council
shall have the power to adopt reasonable rules and regulation for the granting
of permits for supervised public display of fireworks.
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions: Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit any resident wholesaler, dealer or jobber to sell at wholesale such
fireworks as are not herein prohibited; or the sale of any kind of fireworks,
provided the same are to be shipped directly out of the state; or the use of
fireworks by railroads, public utilities, public and private carriers or other
transportation agencies for signal purposes or illumination; or the sale or use
of blank cartridges for show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes
in athletics or sports, or for use by military organizations. (Ord. 682, 8-6-
1951)
   D.   Enforcement:
      1.   Complaint Filed; Search Warrant: Whenever the city council has
reason to believe that any violation of this section has occurred within its
jurisdiction as prescribed in subsection B of this section and that the person
so violating this section has in his possession fireworks or combustibles, it
may file or cause to be filed a complaint in writing, verified by affidavit,
with the proper authority within the jurisdiction of which the premises to be
searched are situated, stating the facts upon which such belief is founded, the
premises to be searched, and the property to be seized and procure a search
warrant and execute the same.
      2.   Seizure Of Property: Upon the execution of such search warrant, the
person executing the same shall make due return thereof to the court issuing
the same, together with an inventory of the property so taken thereunder.
      3.   Summons: The proper authority shall thereupon issue process against
the owner of such property, if he is known, otherwise against the party in
whose possession the property so taken was found, if known. In case of
inability to serve such process upon the owner or the person in possession of
the property at the time of its seizure, as hereinabove provided, notice of the
proceedings before the proper authority shall be given as required by the
statutes of the state in cases of attachment.
      4.   Court Findings: Upon the return of the process duly served, as
hereinabove provided, the proper authority, if a jury shall be demanded, shall
proceed to determine whether or not such property so seized was held or
possessed in violation of this section.
      5.   Forfeiture Of Fireworks; Costs And Destruction: In case of a finding
that the fireworks or combustibles seized were possessed in violation of this
section, judgment shall be entered confiscating and forfeiting the property and
ordering its delivery to the city, and in addition thereto, the proper
authority shall have power to tax or assess the costs of the proceedings. Such
fireworks or combustibles shall be destroyed by the city, within a reasonable
time after delivery.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 682, 8-6-1951; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-2: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following definitions:
GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food or food products.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residue.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products of
the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under section 9(b) of the
environmental protection act 1 .
REFUSE: Any discarded matter, including, but not limited to, garbage, landscape
waste, trash, paper materials, plastic materials, cloth materials, wood
materials or any other matter which is to be reduced in volume, or otherwise
changed in chemical or physical properties in order to facilitate its discard,
removal or disposal.
   B.   Open Burning Prohibited: No person shall cause, permit or allow the
burning or open burning of any refuse, including garbage and landscape waste,
in the city, and in an area extending one mile beyond the boundaries of the
city, except as provided in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Exemptions: The following activities are not in violation of subsection
B of this section:
      1.   Fighting Fires: The setting of fires to combat or limit existing
fires, when reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible government
official.
      2.   Campfires; Wood Stoves: The burning of fuels for legitimate
campfire, recreational, and cooking purposes, or in domestic stoves, furnaces
or fireplaces, in areas where such burning is consistent with other laws;
provided, that no garbage shall be burned in such cases.
      3.   Waste Gases: The burning of waste gases.
      4.   Road Work And Welding: Small open flames for heating tar, for
welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares, and the like.
      5.   Leaves: The burning of leaves only, on private property only
(exclusive of public streets, alleys, sidewalks or any other public right of
way), between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
only of each and every day. (Ord. 1153, 12-18-1989)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
1153, 12-18-1989; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/9(b).
4-2-3: VENTED GAS APPLIANCES:
   A.   Definitions:
GAS APPLIANCE: 1. Any device using gas, whether artificial, liquefied
petroleum, or natural, to produce heat, light or power, except as hereinafter
provided.
      2.   There is excepted from the term "gas appliance", as used and defined
herein, the following:
a. Cooking stoves.
b. Refrigerators.
c. Any other gas appliance with a rating of ten thousand (10,000) BTU input per
hour or less, provided such appliance is not located in any room or enclosure
used for sleeping purposes.
   VENTED: A pipe, tube or enclosed passage, or a combination thereof,
connected to the appliance and leading from the appliance into the open air
outside any structure. Such vent must be of sufficient size, of a generally
accepted design, and installed in such a way as to carry off all harmful
products and byproducts of combustion from the appliance and into the open air.
Any installation which fails to meet the foregoing requirements is improperly
vented.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Unvented Gas Appliances: In the city, it shall be unlawful for any
person to install, maintain, or have on any premises any gas appliance which is
not vented, or is improperly vented.
      2.   Supplying Gas To Unvented Appliances: It shall be unlawful for any
party, person, or public utility to knowingly furnish or supply artificial,
liquefied petroleum, or natural gas to any premises on which there is any
appliance in use which is not vented in compliance with the provisions of this
section, and any such party, person, or public utility shall have, under this
section, the right to refuse to furnish or supply such gas to any premises
where any gas appliance in use is not vented in accordance with the provisions
hereof, provided such right does not contravene any statute of the state or the
rules and regulations of the Illinois commerce commission. (Ord. 748, 2-2-1959)
   C.   Penalty: Any person or public utility found guilty of a violation of
this section shall be subject to fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 748, 2-2-1959; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Prohibitions And Restrictions
4-3-3: Waste Disposal
4-3-4: Storage Of Waste
4-3-5: Collection Charges
4-3-6: Recycling Permitted
4-3-7: Applicability Of Waste Disposal Contract
4-3-8: Litter Control
4-3-9: Penalties
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
GARBAGE: Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, and waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
REFUSE: Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, wood furniture, and bedding; noncombustible trash,
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, glass,
crockery, other mineral waste, lumber, scraps, and shavings; street rubbish,
including, but not limited to, street sweepings, catch basin dirt, and contents
of litter receptacles; provided, "refuse" shall not include earth and wastes
from building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from
industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing
wastes, boiler house cinders, scraps and shavings, and yard waste such as
leaves, grass clippings, weeds, limbs, branches and cuttings from trees, bushes
and plants or other lawn vegetation.
RESIDENTS OR RESIDENCES: Single-family dwelling, mobile home, and each unit of
a two-family dwelling, multi-family dwelling, or apartment building situated in
the city of Carmi who is provided a city utility of electricity or water or
sewage.
WASTE: Garbage, refuse and ashes. (Ord. 1164, 3-18-1991)
4-3-2: PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Uncovered Garbage: It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain
anywhere in the city any waste excepting in a tightly covered container or
secured standard paper or plastic waste containers.
   B.   Windblown Refuse: It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate
anywhere in the city any waste of such a material that can be blown away by the
wind.
   C.   Deposits On Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall
from any vehicle any waste on any public street or alley in the city; provided,
that this subsection shall not be construed to prohibit placing waste in a
container complying with the provisions of this chapter preparatory to having
such material collected and disposed of in the manner provided herein.
   D.   Consent Of Owner: It shall be unlawful to dump or place any waste on
any premises in the city without the consent of the owner of such premises.
(Ord. 1164, 3-18-1991)
4-3-3: WASTE DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful to dispose of any waste anywhere in the city excepting in
a disposal device, properly constructed and operated, or in a lawfully
established garbage or refuse dump. Such material not so properly disposed of
shall be placed in containers for collection by persons authorized by the city.
(Ord. 1164, 3-18-1991)
4-3-4: STORAGE OF WASTE:
Residents or residences who desire to avail themselves of the benefits of this
chapter shall place all waste, as free from fluids as practicable, in a tightly
covered container or standard paper or plastic waste container not exceeding
forty (40) gallons' capacity and shall place refuse in containers convenient
for handling. All of said containers shall be placed in an accessible location
near the alley, or if no alley, then in an accessible location in the parkway
near the street. "Waste", defined in section
4-3-1 of this chapter, shall be placed for collection before six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., on the regular collection day as determined, from time to time, by the
city and the person providing the waste collection and disposal service. (Ord.
1164, 3-18-1991)
4-3-5: COLLECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Residents And Residences: A monthly service charge shall be charged to
and collected from residents and residences in accordance with charges provided
in the contract prevailing, from time to time, between the city and person
providing waste collection and disposal service for the uniform, mandatory, and
citywide waste collection and disposal service. Said fees shall be charged and
collected from each resident or residence whether or not such resident or
residence uses the waste collection and disposal service. (Ord. 1164, 3-18-
1991; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Persons Other Than Residents And Residences: Charges for collection of
waste from persons other than "residents or residences", as defined in section
4-3-1 of this chapter, shall be by private agreement between the person
providing the waste collection and disposal service and the person contracting
for said service. (Ord. 1164, 3-18-1991)
4-3-6: RECYCLING PERMITTED:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any resident or residence from
participating in any recycling program authorized by law. (Ord. 1164, 3-18-
1991)
4-3-7: APPLICABILITY OF WASTE DISPOSAL CONTRACT:
This chapter shall be subject to the terms, provisions and conditions, from
time to time, of the waste disposal contract between the city and the person
providing the waste collection and disposal service. (Ord. 1164, 3-18-1991)
4-3-8: LITTER CONTROL:
   A.   Definition: "Litter" means any discarded, used or unconsumed substance
or waste. "Litter" may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings, trees, limbs, leaves or other lawn or
garden waste, newspaper, magazines, rocks, bricks, parcels of cement, cloth,
rubber, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging
construction material, abandoned vehicle 1 , motor vehicle parts, furniture,
oil, carcass of an animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any
object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, or anything else
of an unsightly or unsanitary nature which has been discarded, abandoned or
otherwise disposed of improperly.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Depositing Litter: No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw,
discard, leave, cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing,
discarding or leaving of litter upon any public or private property in the
city, or upon or into any river, lake, pond, ditch, creek, storm sewer, or any
other stream or body of water in the city.
      2.   Accumulation Of Litter; Windblown Litter: No person shall allow
litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the person charged is the
owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance
or in such a manner that the litter may be blown or otherwise carried by the
natural elements onto the real property of another person.
   C.   Littering From Vehicles: Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped
or dumped from any motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the
presumption is created that the operator of that motor vehicle has violated
subsection B1 of this section, but that presumption may be rebutted. (Ord.
1173, 9-16-1991)
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
section may be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1358, 11-21-2005;
amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
section may perform community service in an amount of time not less than twenty
five (25) hours nor more than three hundred (300) hours for each offense.
      3.   Subsections D1 and D2 of this section are either in addition to each
other or an alternative to each other. (Ord. 1358, 11-21-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 4 of this code.
4-3-9: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, any person who fails to comply with this chapter,
and who is given notice of a violation hereof, may pay ten dollars ($10.00) to
the city clerk to avoid prosecution. Any person who repeatedly violates this
chapter, or who fails to pay said ten dollars ($10.00) within fourteen (14)
days shall be prosecuted for violating this chapter and shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine of not less than thirty dollars ($30.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, which fine shall be
exclusive of court costs which may be assessed against the violator. (Ord.
1164, 3-18-1991; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-4-2: Abatement Procedures
4-4-3: Penalty
4-4-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
person, within the territorial limits of the city, are hereby declared to be
unlawful and prohibited:
   A.   Common Law Nuisances: Any act or offense which is a nuisance according
to the common law of the state, or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the
ordinances of the city. In addition, the officials of the city shall be
authorized to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within
this chapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use
by a person of property, real or personal, or from his own improper, indecent
or unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a right of
another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort, or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   B.   Animal Carcasses; Offal:
      1.   To cause the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or noisome
substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under his
ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
   C.   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the carcass
of any animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common sewer,
street or public highway.
   D.   Polluting Water: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water
of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   E.   Stagnant Water: To permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any
premises to the prejudice of others.
   F.   Garbage Accumulation; Putrid Or Offensive Conditions: To deposit or
permit to remain upon any premises, or public street or alley, slops or animal
or vegetable matter of any kind which is or is likely to become putrid or
offensive.
   G.   Obstructing Public Ways: To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places.
   H.   Obstructing View At Intersections: To construct or maintain any sign,
earth embankment, fence, hedge, tree or shrub obstructing a clear view at any
corner of a road or street intersection between points twenty feet (20') back
from the intersection of the roadways, and to the corner thereof, and four feet
(4') above the crown of each intersecting roadway.
   I.   Offensive Businesses: To erect, continue or use any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or
dangerous to the health of individuals, or of the public.
   J.   Unauthorized Advertisements: To advertise wares or occupation by
painting notices of the same on, or affixing them to, fences, walls, windows,
building exteriors, utility poles, or on hydrants, other public or private
property, or on rocks or other natural objects, without the consent of the
owner, or if in the highway or other public place, without permission of the
proper authorities.
   K.   Harassment Involving Real Estate: To harass, intimidate or threaten any
person who is about to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other
real property or is about to buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence
or other real property, when the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to
a person’s attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence, or other real property,
or refers to a person’s sale, purchase or lease of a residence or other real
property.
   L.   Dumping And/Or Burning Ashes, Junk Vehicles, Miscellaneous Waste: To
dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn 1  upon any public property or right
of way, highway, park, or street ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles
or parts thereof, or miscellaneous waste.
   M.   Junk Storage: To store, keep, or maintain outside of a closed building,
any junk; refuse; used appliances; used or dilapidated furniture; bathroom
fixtures; tires; old iron or metal; used lumber, bricks, blocks or other
building salvage materials; parts; and machinery or equipment not in an
operable condition, where such matter is an actual danger or detriment to life,
safety, health or peaceful enjoyment of the property of surrounding property
owners; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to a properly
licensed junkyard or other permitted outdoor storage use which is in full
compliance with all of the ordinances of the city governing the same.
   N.   Dangerous Buildings: To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for
human habitation, or dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because
of lack of repair, defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the
existence of contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause
sickness among persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity
thereof. (Ord. 1199, 9-20-1993, eff. 10-4-1993)
   O.   Animals:
      1.   Harboring Pests: To store or place any materials in a manner which
may harbor mosquitoes, flies, insects, rodents, nuisance birds, or other animal
pests that are offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the health of individuals
or the public. (Ord. 1199, 9-20-1993, eff. 10-4-1993; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Offensive Animal Houses: To suffer or permit any premises where any
animal is kept to become nauseous, foul or offensive to any person, family or
neighborhood.
      3.   Noisy, Offensive Animals: To keep any animal, bird or fowl,
including pets of any kind, which causes frequent or long continued noise or
which creates odors or unsightly appearance of surroundings, or which disturbs
the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
   P.   Noisy, Offensive Conditions:
      1.   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any loud, excessive, frequent, continuous or offensive noise to the
disturbance of the peace or quiet of any person residing in the vicinity.
      2.   To use, operate, or permit to be played, used or operated any radio
or television receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine
or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to
disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring inhabitants or at any time
with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who
is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated
and who is a voluntary listener thereto. (Ord. 1199, 9-20-1993, eff. 10-4-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-2 of this title for open burning restrictions.
4-4-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Abate: Except where otherwise provided by the ordinances of
the city, any officer of the city possessing police powers may serve or cause
to be served a notice, in writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of any lot, building or premises or item of
personalty in or upon which any nuisance exists, requiring said owner to abate
the same within a specified reasonable time, in such manner as the notice shall
direct.
   B.   Failure To Abate: If the person so served and notified does not abate
the nuisance within the specified reasonable time, the corporate authorities
may proceed to abate the nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law,
including, without limiting the generality thereof, the following:
      1.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined in this chapter by
instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
      2.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Summary Abatement:
      1.   Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the city possessing police
powers, the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent
threat of serious injury to persons or serious damage to personal or real
property, or if the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only minor
damage to the items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the
continuation of the nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or
property or a substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life
normally present in the community, such officer shall proceed to abate such
nuisance; provided, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in
possession, charge or control of the real or personal property which has become
a nuisance is unknown or cannot readily be found, the city officer with police
power may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice.
      2.   Where the abatement of the nuisance requires continuing acts by the
corporate authorities beyond the initial summary abatement and any other
additional emergency abatements, the corporate authorities shall seek abatement
of such nuisance on a permanent basis through judicial process as soon as
reasonably possible. (Ord. 1199, 9-20-1993, eff. 10-4-1993)
4-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that a
violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1199,
9-20-1993, eff. 10-4-1993; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Nuisance Declared; Weeds Prohibited
4-5-2: Height Restrictions
4-5-3: Abatement Procedures
4-5-4: Abatement Costs A Lien
4-5-5: Foreclosure Of Lien; Sale Of Property
4-5-6: Enforcement And Penalty
4-5-1: NUISANCE DECLARED; WEEDS PROHIBITED:
Any weed such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of
like kind, and those generally recognized within the state as weeds, found
growing on any lot or tract of land in the city are hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain
in such place. (2006 Code)
4-5-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit weeds, grass or plants other than
trees, bushes, flowers or ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding
twelve inches (12") anywhere in the city, and any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (2006 Code)
4-5-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Abate: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to serve or
cause to be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which
weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this
chapter and to demand an abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days.
   B.   Abatement By City; Costs: If any person so served does not abate the
nuisance within ten (10) days, the city may proceed to abate such nuisance,
keeping an account of the expense of abatement, and such expense shall be
charged and paid by such owner or occupant. (2006 Code)
4-5-4: ABATEMENT COSTS A LIEN:
Charges for such weed or grass removal shall be a lien on the premises.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after it
has been rendered, the city clerk may file in the office of the county recorder
of deeds a statement of lien. This statement shall contain a legal description
of the premises and the expenses and costs incurred, the date the weeds were
cut and the notice that the city claims a lien for this amount. Such notice of
lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his address is
known; provided, however, that failure of the clerk to record such lien claim
or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall
not affect the right of the city to foreclose the lien for such charges. (2006
Code)
4-5-5: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN; SALE OF PROPERTY:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed or grass cutting charges may be
foreclosed in equity in the name of the city, and such property shall be sold
for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to
pay the charges after deducting costs as in the case of foreclosure of
statutory liens. (2006 Code)
4-5-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement: The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   Penalty: In addition to the foregoing remedies, any person violating
section
4-5-1 or
4-5-2 of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (2006 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Appointments
5-1-3: Rank
5-1-4: Rules Of Conduct
5-1-5: Neglect Of Duty
5-1-6: Powers Of Police; Arrest And Detention
5-1-7: Intervention
5-1-8: Record Of Arrest
5-1-9: General Regulations
5-1-10: Vehicles
5-1-11: Court Demeanor
5-1-12: Civil Court Appearances
5-1-13: Damage To City Property
5-1-14: Duties Of Chief
5-1-15: Responsibilities Of Sergeants
5-1-16: Patrol Officers
5-1-17: Maintenance Of Manual
5-1-18: Unsatisfactory Performance
5-1-19: Special Employees
5-1-20: Police Firearms Regulations
5-1-21: Meal Regulations
5-1-22: Uniforms
5-1-23: Winter Uniform Regulations
5-1-24: Summer Uniform Regulations
5-1-25: Special Uniforms And Equipment
5-1-26: Enforcement
5-1-27: Police Pension Fund
5-1-28: Auxiliary Police
5-1-29: Part Time Police
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department for the city, which shall consist
of the chief of police, at least one sergeant, and at least six (6) patrol
officers. (Ord. 1052, 1-17-1983)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Within Department: All appointments to or promotions within the
department with the exception of the chief of police shall be made by the
police commissioners, as provided by law. (Ord. 1052, 1-17-1983; amd. 2006
Code)
   B.   Chief Of Police: The chief of police of the city police department
shall hereafter be appointed and employed by the mayor with the consent of the
city council. (Ord. 997, 5-19-1980)
   C.   Deputy Chief Of Police: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-
2.1-4 the city council can pass or rescind an ordinance that states that the
chief of police "may" appoint a deputy chief of police.
      1.   Appointment; Removal: The appointment will be made by the chief of
police and this position will be an exempt rank immediately below the rank of
chief of police.
The deputy chief of police shall be appointed from any sworn, full time
officers of the municipality's police department, but must have at least five
(5) years of full time service as a police officer in that department.
The deputy chief shall serve at the discretion of the chief and, if removed
from the position, shall revert to the rank currently held, without regard as
to whether a vacancy exists in that rank.
      2.   Promotion: The deputy chief of police, having been appointed from
the rank of sworn full time officers of the municipality's police department,
shall be permitted, regardless of rank, to take promotional exams and be
promoted to a higher classified rank than he/she currently holds, without
having to resign as deputy chief of police.
      3.   Compensation And Benefits: The deputy chief of police shall receive
the same amount of pay that they receive in their current rank as provided in
the Fraternal Order Of Police contract.
The deputy chief of police shall have the same benefits of the collective
bargaining agreement between the Fraternal Order Of Police and city of Carmi.
(Ord. 1378, 8-6-2007)
5-1-3: RANK:
The chief of police shall be the head of the department and have supervision
over all officers and members thereof. Following the chief of police in rank
shall be the sergeants and police officers in order of seniority. (Ord. 1052,
1-17-1983)
5-1-4: RULES OF CONDUCT:
The following shall apply to all persons paid fully or in part by the Carmi
police department or assigned as an employee of the city:
   A.   Violations Of Laws: Personnel of the city police department shall not
violate or attempt to violate any federal, state, county, township, or
municipal law.
   B.   Obedience To Court Decisions: Personnel of the city police department
will obey all decisions and orders of courts having jurisdiction.
   C.   Obedience To Superiors: Personnel will obey and fully execute any
lawful order, written or oral, given by or relayed by a superior officer, which
shall include, but not be necessarily limited to, these rules and regulations,
or general and special orders, policies and procedures of the department.
   D.   Conflicting Orders: Officers who are given an otherwise proper order
which is in conflict with a previous order, rule, regulation or directive,
shall respectfully inform the superior issuing the order of the conflict. If
the superior issuing the order does not alter or retract the conflicting order,
the order shall stand. Under these circumstances, the responsibility for the
conflict shall be upon the superior. Officers shall obey the conflicting order
and shall not be held responsible for disobedience of the order, rule,
regulation or directive previously issued. Officers shall not obey any order
which they know or should know would require them to commit any illegal act. If
in doubt as to the legality of an order, officers shall request the issuing
superior to clarify the order or to confer with higher authority.
   E.   Use Of Alcohol And Narcotic Drugs: The use and possession of alcoholic
beverages or narcotic drugs will be governed by the following rules:
      1.   Personnel will never use or be under the influence of alcoholic
beverages while in a recognizable city police department uniform.
      2.   The use of narcotic drugs is prohibited, except when used as a
medication, as directed by a licensed physician. When narcotic drugs are taken
or administered prior to or during duty periods, a written statement from the
attending physician will be required stating that its effects should in no way
hinder the individual's performance.
      3.   The consumption of non-narcotic medication is prohibited when it is
reasonable and prudent to believe such medication will hinder the individual's
performance on duty.
      4.   The presence of an alcoholic beverage or narcotic drug in any city
police facility or vehicle is prohibited; except, that which is held for
evidence or training purposes.
      5.   Except in the performance of duty, personnel in a recognizable city
police department uniform will not enter any establishment or place where the
principal business is the sale of alcohol.
   F.   Altering Documents: Personnel shall not steal, alter, forge, or tamper
with any police record, report or citation.
   G.   Removal Of, Duplicating Documents: To this end, the removal of any
record, card, report, letter, document, or other official file from the
department, except by process of law is prohibited. Additionally, the
obtaining/duplication or attempted obtaining/duplicating of any information of
department files, sources, or reports, other than that to which one is properly
entitled in accordance with duties/assignments is prohibited.
   H.   False Statements Or Reports: Personnel shall not knowingly make a false
statement or false report.
   I.   Enforcement Duties: It shall be the duty of the members of the police
department to enforce all ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable
therein, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and may
arrest violators thereof.
   J.   Aid To Other Officers: All police officers shall render prompt and
efficient aid to each other in the discharge of their duties.
   K.   Unnecessary Force:
      1.   Personnel will not use more force than is reasonably necessary to
accomplish lawful purpose and will be governed by statute and case law
affecting the use of force.
      2.   In the event a person is struck by an officer while being arrested
or being held in custody, or for any other reason, which results in the need of
medical attention, the officer shall see that the person struck is taken to a
hospital for examination by a physician.
   L.   Courtesy: Personnel should be courteous to all persons at all times;
the public should not be unnecessarily humiliated or embarrassed.
   M.   Identification Of Self: Personnel requested to identify themselves will
state their rank, name and badge number.
   N.   Maintain Proper Arrest Relationships: Personnel will obey the following
rules in their relationships with persons under arrest or in custody:
      1.   Personnel shall not post bond for any person.
      2.   Personnel shall not recommend the retention of specific attorneys,
law firms, bondsmen, or bonding companies.
   O.   Membership In Organizations Restricted: Personnel are prohibited from
joining or affiliating with any group whose charter, constitution, or bylaws
conflict with the duties or responsibilities of the city police department.
   P.   Legal Papers Served: Personnel served with legal papers which could
have a substantive effect on the department or which arise as the result of the
performance of duty will report the circumstances in writing to the chief of
police. The chief of police shall forward all necessary reports to the city
attorney and/or state's attorney.
   Q.   Home Visits From Defendants: No complainant, defendant, or member of
their family is to be transported, encouraged to call by phone, or visit in
person at any officer's home, unless by prior consent.
   R.   Labor Disputes: Personnel shall not enter into any building, structure,
or premises where persons have been placed to indicate a labor dispute in
progress, except when necessary in the performance of duty. To this end, strict
impartiality shall be followed and gratuities, food and/or drink shall not be
accepted from a party participating in the dispute.
   S.   Use Of Position For Personal Gain: Personnel of the department shall
not use the prestige or influence of one's official position, or use of the
time, facilities, equipment or supplies of the department for the private gain
or advantage to oneself or another.
   T.   Gambling: Officers shall not engage or participate in any form of
illegal gambling at any time, except in the performance of duty and while
acting under proper and specific orders from a superior.
   U.   Labor Unions:
      1.   Officers shall have the right to join labor organizations, but the
decision to recognize or to engage in collective bargaining with any labor
organization except as provided by law will rest with the city and county.
      2.   Officers shall not engage in any strike. "Strike" includes the
concerted failure to report for regular or special duty, wilful absence from
one's position, unauthorized holidays, sickness unsubstantiated by a
physician's statement, the stoppage of work, or the abstinence in whole or in
part from the full, faithful and proper performance of the duties of employment
for the purposes of inducing, influencing or coercing a change in conditions,
compensation, rights, privileges or obligation of employment. (Ord. 1017, eff.
4-16-1981)
5-1-5: NEGLECT OF DUTY:
   A.   Examples Of Failure To Perform Duty: There shall be no failure to give
suitable attention to the performance of duty. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, failure to take appropriate action on the occasion of a
criminal offense, disorder or other act or condition deserving police
attention, absence without leave, failure to report to duty at the time and
place designated, unnecessary absence from one's assignment during the tour of
duty, sleeping while on duty, failure to perform duties or comply with any rule
or regulation, or failure to conform to department operating policies and
procedures.
   B.   City Request To Interview Examining Physician: Personnel shall not be
absent from work without permission or abstain wholly or in part the full
performance from one's duties in one's normal manner without permission. To
this end, employees claiming physical or mental incapacity relating to their
employment shall honor the request of the city or its agent(s) to be
periodically interviewed as to the nature and extent of a claimed injury or
illness and/or submit to an examination of the claimed physical/mental
incapacity by an individual chosen by the chief of police or his designated
agent or, in the alternative, any individual chosen by the employee claiming
the incapacity. In either event, the examining party must be licensed by the
state to conduct such examinations, and the results of the examination shall be
made totally available to both the employee and the chief of police. Failure to
honor such a request shall be violative of this rule.
   C.   Permission To Terminate Assigned Duty: Personnel shall not terminate
any duty assignment, unless properly relieved or dismissed by constituted
authority.
   D.   Maintain Good Physical Condition: All officers of the department shall
maintain good physical condition. The chief may at his discretion require a
physical examination of any officer and certification as to his ability to
perform his duties. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-6: POWERS OF POLICE; ARREST AND DETENTION:
   A.   Police officers in the city shall be conservators of the peace. They
shall have the power:
      1.   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any city ordinance or any
criminal law of the state;
      2.   To commit arrested persons for examination;
      3.   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody over night or
Sunday in any safe place or until they can be brought before the proper court;
and
      4.   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace prescribed
by the corporate authorities.
   B.   All warrants for the violation of city ordinances or the state criminal
law directed to any person may be served and executed within the limits of the
city by any police officer of the city. For that purpose, police officers have
all the common law and statutory powers of sheriffs. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-
1981; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-7: INTERVENTION:
   A.   Intervention Prohibited; Exceptions: Officers shall not interfere with
cases being handled by other officers of this or any other department unless:
      1.   Ordered to intervene by a superior; or
      2.   Ordered to intervene as provided by law; or
      3.   The intervening officer believes beyond a reasonable doubt that a
manifest injustice would result from failure to take such immediate action, and
shall report the action to the most accessible supervisor.
   B.   Investigations Outside Regular Duties: Officers shall not undertake any
investigation or other official action not part of their regular duties without
obtaining permission from their superior unless the urgencies of the situation
require immediate police action. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-8: RECORD OF ARREST:
All police officers making an arrest shall record the name and physical
description of the person arrested, where arrested, and on what charge; what
property, if any, was taken or found on such person, and how disposed of; and
also record his own name as the officer making the arrest, and all such records
shall become the property of the city police department. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-
1981)
5-1-9: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Evidence: Personnel shall thoroughly search for, collect, preserve, and
identify evidence of persons, property, and locations in any arrest or
investigation.
   B.   Reports: Personnel shall promptly submit such reports as are required
by the performance of duty or by constituted authority.
   C.   Notice Of Criminal Activities: All personnel shall notify the chief of
police of any information regarding criminal activities.
   D.   Approval For Outside Correspondence: Personnel shall not enter into
official department correspondence with anyone or any agency outside the
department, except with the approval of the chief of police.
   E.   Telephone Conversations Outside City: All official department
communication, by phone, outside the city without the permission of a
supervisor is prohibited.
   F.   Public Criticism Of Department: Officers shall not publicly criticize
or ridicule the department, its policies or other officers by speech, writing
or other expression, when such will cause the public to lose confidence in the
department.
   G.   Department Representatives Addressing Public: When acting as
representatives of the department, officers shall have proper authority before
they address public gatherings, appear on radio or television, prepare any
articles for publication, act as correspondents to a newspaper or a periodical
release, or divulge investigative information or any other matters of the
department. Officers may lecture on police or other related subjects only with
the prior approval of the chief.
   H.   Destruction, Removal Of Official Notices: Personnel shall not destroy,
deface or remove any official written notice or directive relating to the
department. The posting of or circulation of any notices of a nonofficial,
derogatory character relating to any person, group or police activity is
prohibited.
   I.   Possession Of Keys: Personnel shall not possess keys pertaining to city
business or obtained under departmental authority, not their own, without the
approval of the chief of police. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-10: VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicles: Officers shall operate official vehicles in a
careful and prudent manner, and shall obey all laws and departmental procedures
pertaining to such operation.
   B.   Loss Or Suspension Of Driver's License: Loss or suspension of an
officer's driving license shall be immediately reported to the officer's
superior.
   C.   Persons Riding In Vehicles: No person will be allowed to ride in
official vehicles except sworn officers of the department, individuals detained
or being transported in the course of official law enforcement, or others
specifically approved in writing by the chief. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-11: COURT DEMEANOR:
For the purpose of this chapter, officers shall be punctual, properly dressed
and prepared (to include consultation with the prosecutor and processing
pertinent police reports, notes and evidence). At all times, members of the
department shall maintain a respectful attitude toward the court and both
counsels. Should one be requested and/or subpoenaed to testify for the defense
in any trial or hearing against the city or the city police department, the one
so requested and/or subpoenaed shall notify the chief of police in writing upon
receipt of the request and/or subpoena. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-12: CIVIL COURT APPEARANCES:
   A.   Testimony Restricted: Officers shall not testify in third party civil
actions or hearings unless legally subpoenaed.
   B.   Subpoenas: Officers shall accept all subpoenas legally served.
   C.   Notice Of Deposition Or Testimony: Officers shall notify their superior
before giving a deposition or testimony in any civil case.
   D.   Compensation For Testimony: Officers shall not enter into any financial
understanding for appearances prior to any civil trial except in accordance
with written permission of the chief. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-13: DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Report Required: Personnel shall immediately report, in writing, all
damage to police vehicles and equipment, or file such reports which contain all
known facts surrounding the cause and nature of the damage.
   B.   Returned Uniforms And Equipment: All uniforms, badges, ID cards, and
equipment issued to officers of the department must be returned in serviceable
condition prior to issuance of the final payroll check and pension refund
check, except, the chief of police, with the consent of the police
commissioners, may remove from service and present to the officer any items of
issue at the end of twenty (20) years of service or less than twenty (20) years
of service if the officer is retired for medical reasons. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-
16-1981)
5-1-14: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   Records And Reports; Responsibility For Department: The chief of police
shall cause such records and make such reports, not in conflict with existing
law, concerning the activities of the department as may be required by statute
or by the city council. The chief shall be responsible for the performance of
the police department and its functions, and all persons who are members of the
police department shall serve subject to the orders of the chief of police.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: The chief of police may make or prescribe such
rules and regulations as he shall deem advisable. Such rules shall be binding
on such members. Such rules and regulations may cover conduct of the members,
hours of service and vacations not in conflict with the current city personnel
policy 1 , and all other similar matters necessary for the efficiency of the
department, as contained in the procedural manual.
   C.   Custody Of Lost, Stolen And Abandoned Property: The chief of police
shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen property recovered in
the city. Said property shall be surrendered by the officer(s) before the end
of his shift by depositing the same with the chief of police or by placing the
property in the locked transfer areas or in the custody and control of a towing
service when a vehicle is involved. Such evidence shall be returned to the
lawful owner when no longer needed as evidence in any pending court action or
destroyed on the order of the court or destroyed if the item is contraband.
(Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-6-5 of this code.
5-1-15: RESPONSIBILITIES OF SERGEANTS:
The duties of the sergeant include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Regularly inspect the patrol officers as to proper uniform and
appearance.
   B.   Assist and advise patrol officers in properly completing all records,
reports and complaints; ensure that reports are submitted to the office in a
timely manner.
   C.   Handle all complaints from patrol officers, if possible, and forward
necessary memos and/or reports.
   D.   Act as juvenile officer of his assigned shift.
   E.   Perform regular police duties as needed.
   F.   Direct and coordinate the activities of line personnel assigned during
his duty hours.
   G.   Ensure proper use and care of department equipment during assigned duty
hours.
   H.   Acquire accountability of patrol officers for failure to accomplish
their assignments and for improper actions.
   I.   Be responsible for the proper execution of orders given to patrol
officers assigned on his shift. (Ord. 1023, 8-3-1981)
   J.   Perform such other duties as assigned by the chief of police. (Ord.
1023, 8-3-1981; amd. Ord. 1052, 1-17-1983)
5-1-16: PATROL OFFICERS:
   A.   General Performance Requirements: All patrol officers, in carrying out
the functions of the police department, namely, the preservation of the public
peace, the protection of life and property, the prevention of crime, the arrest
of violators of the law, and the proper enforcement of all the laws and
ordinances of which the department takes cognizance, shall be consistently
direct in their efforts to accomplish that end intelligently and efficiently,
and shall hold themselves in readiness at all times to answer the calls and
obey the orders of their superiors, and shall be accountable to their superior
officers for the general conditions of the city during the hours assigned to
them.
   B.   Probationary Period: All original appointments shall be for a
probational period of twelve (12) months. Continuance in service shall be
dependent upon the conduct of the appointee and his fitness for the performance
of the duties to which he is assigned as indicated by the quality of his work
and the reports and recommendations of his superior officers. If, during the
said year, the appointee proves unfit, he will be dismissed from the service by
the police commissioners and shall not be entitled to appeal from such
dismissal. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-17: MAINTENANCE OF MANUAL:
All officers are responsible for the maintenance of the manual and will make
appropriate changes or inserts as they arise. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-18: UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE:
Officers shall maintain sufficient competency to properly perform their duties
and assume the responsibilities of their positions. Officers shall perform
their duties in a manner which will maintain the highest standards of
efficiency in carrying out the functions and objectives of the department.
Unsatisfactory performance may be demonstrated by a lack of knowledge of the
application of laws required to be enforced; an unwillingness or inability to
perform assigned tasks; the failure to conform to work standards established
for the officer's rank, grade or position; or absence without leave. In
addition to other indications of unsatisfactory performance, the following will
be considered prima facie evidence of unsatisfactory performance: repeated poor
evaluation or a written report of repeated infractions of rules, regulations,
directives or orders of the department. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-19: SPECIAL EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Definition: "Special employees" are all individuals other than law
enforcement personnel who are supplying, or propose to supply, intelligence
information to the department on a continuing basis while they are being paid
with department funds for such activities.
   B.   Special Employee File: A personal file will be set up for every special
employee, listing his/her name, aliases, address, sex, date and place of birth,
marital status, complete physical description, including identifying marks,
occupation, criminal specialty, and code number.
   C.   Investigation; Criminal Background:
      1.   An inquiry will be made to the national crime information center
(NCIC) and the law enforcement agency data system (LEADS) for wanted status on
the individual. In the absence of a recent FBI criminal record report, the
officer will make inquiry of an appropriate state or local enforcement agency
to eliminate the possibility of utilizing a subject in a wanted status.
      2.   In the absence of an FBI criminal record report or a local criminal
history sheet, the officer shall include any information received from the
individual concerning his admitted criminal background. If the reported
criminal record was obtained from the individual himself, he must specify that
the special employee was the source of this information.
   D.   Status: The officer shall cover all circumstances relating to the
current status of the individual with regard to probation, parole or
conditional release as required in this section. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-20: POLICE FIREARMS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Officers Provide Firearm; Authorization: All police officers will
furnish their own sidearms. All sidearms carried by members of the Carmi police
department shall be authorized by the chief of police.
   B.   Specifications: All sidearms carried by members of the Carmi police
department shall have a barrel length of at least three inches (3") and no more
than six inches (6").
   C.   Training; Qualification For Shooting:
      1.   Required Qualification; Records And Reports: Each member of the
Carmi police department shall be required to qualify one time each year with
his sidearm. Records will be maintained by the firearms training officer on the
ability of each officer to use his sidearm. The firearms training officer will
make a report to the chief of police after each qualification shoot.
      2.   Changing Sidearms: No officer will be allowed to change to another
sidearm until he has presented that sidearm and the leather gear it is to be
carried in to the chief of police for inspection. After the sidearm and gear
have passed inspection, the officer must qualify with it at a regularly
scheduled qualification.
      3.   Off Duty Weapons: When using a different sidearm as an off duty
weapon, the officer must qualify with it as well as his duty weapon and must
furnish his own ammunition for the qualification. (Ord. 1265, 4-20-1998)
5-1-21: MEAL REGULATIONS:
Officer meal regulations are pursuant to the fraternal order of police
contract. (Ord. 1265, 4-20-1998)
5-1-22: UNIFORMS:
   A.   Compliance With Specifications: Only uniform items and accessories in
conformance with specifications and approved organizational pins and medals
will be worn as a regular visible part of the uniform.
   B.   Cap: The uniform hat or cap as part of the uniform, will be worn at all
times except when in a vehicle or when decorum dictates its removal.
   C.   Complete Uniform To Be Worn: The complete uniform of the day, with
appropriate accessories, will be worn at all times while on duty unless
otherwise directed by the chief.
   D.   Fit; Condition Of Uniform: Uniforms and accessories will fit properly,
be clean and neatly pressed, and free from rips, tears, holes, frayed edges,
missing buttons, and faded colors.
   E.   Maintenance Of Certain Items: A high polished lustre will be maintained
on leather belts, shoes, holster, handcuff cases, buckles and snaps.
   F.   Off Duty Prohibitions: No part of the uniform or issued uniform
accessories will be worn off duty.
   G.   Coworkers To Wear Same Uniform: When two (2) or more police personnel
wearing issued uniforms are working together, they will all be attired in the
same class uniform.
   H.   Responsibility For Missing Items: Uniform or accessory items lost,
destroyed, or stolen due to negligence will be paid for by the negligent
person.
   I.   Sleeve Emblems:
      1.   Sleeve emblems will be securely sewn on the uniforms and will not be
creased.
      2.   Each uniform shirt, jacket, and coverall shall have a Carmi police
department patch sewn on the right and left sleeve.
      3.   Chevrons shall be sewn on both sleeves just below the Carmi police
department patch on all but the summer shirt.
   J.   Pocket Appearances: Pockets will not be stuffed with items resulting in
a bulging appearance.
   K.   Moustaches: Moustaches will be neatly trimmed and not excessive in
length.
   L.   Beards: No beards are to be worn.
   M.   Type To Be Worn: Type of uniform worn will be determined by the chief,
and notices will be posted indicating changes from summer to winter wear. (Ord.
1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-23: WINTER UNIFORM REGULATIONS:
   A.   Issued Items: Winter uniforms shall consist of the following issued
items:
      1.   Cap with badge.
      2.   Long sleeved shirt.
      3.   Shirt badge.
      4.   Winter trousers.
      5.   Sam Browne belt.
      6.   Handcuffs and case.
      7.   Baton and strap.
      8.   Tie and tie tack.
      9.   Oxford or wellington style boots.
      10.   Fur trimmed cap.
      11.   Collar brass.
      12.   Nametag.
   B.   Items Furnished By Officer: The following items are to be furnished and
worn by uniformed officers:
      1.   Sidearm.
      2.   Holster.
      3.   Cartridge case.
      4.   Black socks (with oxfords).
   C.   Jacket: The jacket or coat (issued items) will be worn as needed.
   D.   Cap: Fur trimmed cap will be worn with heavy coat as needed.
   E.   Dry Clean Only Items: All jackets, coats, and cap covers shall be dry
clean only.
   F.   Emblems: Awards or emblems issued to members of the department are to
be worn pursuant to other directives.
   G.   Straps And Holders: Key straps, and mace holders are optional items.
   H.   Additional Items Prohibited: No other items are to be worn as a visible
part of a winter uniform.
   I.   Specifications: Specifications are on file. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-24: SUMMER UNIFORM REGULATIONS:
   A.   Issued Items: Summer uniforms shall consist of the following issued
items:
      1.   Hat with badge.
      2.   Short sleeved shirt.
      3.   Shirt badge.
      4.   Summer trousers.
      5.   Sam Browne belt.
      6.   Handcuffs and cases.
      7.   Baton and strap.
      8.   Oxford or wellington style boots.
      9.   Collar brass.
      10.   Nametag.
   B.   Items Furnished By Officer: The following items are to be furnished and
worn by uniformed officers:
      1.   Sidearm.
      2.   Holster.
      3.   Black socks (with oxfords).
      4.   Cartridge case.
   C.   Emblems: Awards or emblems issued to members of the department are to
be worn pursuant to other directives.
   D.   Straps And Holders: Key straps, and mace holders are optional items.
   E.   Additional Items Prohibited: No other items are to be worn as a visible
part of a summer uniform.
   F.   Specifications: Specifications are on file. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-25: SPECIAL UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Coveralls: Navy blue coveralls are issued as a special uniform for use
in riot control, disaster work and other special details.
   B.   Helmets: Navy blue helmets, with no markings, are issued as special
equipment, and are to be worn only as ordered by supervisory personnel. When
orders are issued that require the use of helmets, by supervisory personnel,
the chief of police must be notified as soon as possible.
   C.   Gloves: Leather gloves with lead inserts (issued item) may be carried
or worn with any class uniform. Use of this item is governed by case law
regarding the use of necessary force to effect an arrest or to protect the
officer.
   D.   Baton: Riot baton (issued item) is to be carried or used only when
ordered by supervisory personnel.
   E.   Uniforms: Uniforms (summer, winter, and special) may be varied by the
chief of police to fit specific needs. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-26: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police, other supervisory personnel, and
the board of fire and police commissioners to enforce the foregoing rules and
regulations. (Ord. 1017, eff. 4-16-1981)
5-1-27: POLICE PENSION FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: There shall be a police pension fund established in
the city, as provided by law.
   B.   Board Of Trustees:
      1.   Membership: The board of trustees of the said fund shall consist of
five (5) members, two (2) appointed by the mayor, and two (2) shall be members
of the police department who shall be elected by the members of the police
department, and one elected by the beneficiaries of the pension fund. The
elections shall be held biennially on the third Monday in April, and the term
of each member shall be two (2) years.
      2.   Meetings: The pension board shall meet at least quarterly as
provided by law, and shall hold such additional meetings as may be called by
the president of the pension board.
      3.   Term Of Service: A board of trustees as required by law shall be
established to serve until the time for regular elections.
   C.   Deposits Into Fund: There shall be deposited in the pension fund the
sums required by law, which shall include nine percent (9.0%) per month
deducted from the salary of each member of the police force, and the proceeds
of an annual tax of not to exceed thirty seven and one-half percent (37.5%)
which shall be levied, and also thirteen and three-tenths percent (13.3%) of
all property replacement taxes, ten percent (10%) of fines collected for
violation of city ordinances, and ten percent (10%) of the liquor license
revenue, which shall be contributed to the pension fund, as required by
statute. (Ord. 704, 6-7-1954; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-28: AUXILIARY POLICE:
   A.   Composition: This unit is comprised of no more than twenty (20) citizen
volunteers selectively used to conduct a variety of assignments as hereafter
provided, but shall not be supplemental members of the regular police
department except as provided for herein when full time officers are
unavailable.
   B.   Appointment; Supervision: The chief of police is hereby authorized to
appoint members to the city of Carmi police auxiliary, providing those persons
are of good moral character. The chief of police shall also have the authority
to revoke any appointment to the auxiliary unit with or without cause. This
unit will receive its overall direction from the chief of police and shall be
functionally supervised by the chief appointed auxiliary commander.
   C.   Eligibility Requirements: Any citizen of the United States, who is a
resident of the city or lives within twenty (20) miles of the police
department, who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and has no felony
convictions or serious misdemeanors, shall be eligible to become an auxiliary
policeman.
   D.   Rules; Uniforms: The chief of police shall have the authority to
prescribe the uniform, rules and regulations, equipment, organization, and
structure of the auxiliary policemen; however, identification and uniforms worn
by the auxiliary policemen shall be different and distinct from those used by
members of the regular police department.
   E.   Duties:
      1.   The auxiliary policemen shall provide additional manpower to the
police department for traffic and crowd control during major fires, storms and
during other disaster situations;
      2.   Provide supplemental security functions at fire scenes, crime scenes
and other times deemed necessary;
      3.   Provide traffic control and safety functions for parades and various
walk-a-thons and other events throughout the year;
      4.   Participate in the squad ride along program and any other volunteer
program within the police department.
      5.   The auxiliary police officers, when on duty, but not at any other
time, shall also be conservators of the peace and shall have the powers as
prescribed in the Illinois municipal code at 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
3.1-15-25 provided the auxiliary police officer has complied with the
provisions of the police training act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/10.5,
and completed the four hundred (400) hour mandatory basic law enforcement
officer training course required by the Illinois law enforcement training
standards board, otherwise the auxiliary police officer shall not be a
conservator of the peace and shall not possess conservation of the peace powers
as provided by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-15-25. (Ord. 1445, 9-19-
2011)
5-1-29: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The city of Carmi may employ part time police officers from
time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Carmi police department, but the number of hours a part
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois
police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city of Carmi authorities, shall not have any property rights
in said employment, and may be removed by the city of Carmi authorities at any
time. Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and
general orders issued by the police department. (Ord. 1459, 6-18-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted
5-2-2: Graffiti
5-2-1: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2006 Code)
5-2-2: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this subsection, "graffiti" is defined
as any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram, sketch,
picture, or letter, or combinations thereof, placed without the express written
permission of the owner, upon the real or personal property of said owner.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to place graffiti upon the property of
another, whether publicly or privately owned, real or personal.
   C.   Placement With Owner's Permission: It shall be unlawful for an owner
and/or occupant of property which is in the public view to place or give
permission to place any graffiti on said property if such graffiti incites
violence or the furtherance or proliferation of gang activity by reference to
gang or criminal activity, depicts or expresses obscenity by referring to
sexual activity, or contains defamatory material about a public or private
person or group.
   D.   Removal Required: Upon notification by the city, the owner of property
upon which graffiti has been illegally placed shall remove the graffiti within
five (5) working days of the date of notification. Failure to remove graffiti
within the specified time shall cause summary abatement of the nuisance, and
cost therefor shall be assessed to the owner.
   E.   Compensation And Restitution: The owner of the property shall be
entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct cost incurred in the
repair and restoration of his property to its previous condition from any
person convicted of the offense listed in this subsection; provided, that the
property owner submits receipts or other evidence of the costs for the removal
or repair of the graffiti; and provided further, that the court enters an order
of restitution.
   F.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian:
      1.   The parent or legal guardian of a juvenile who resides with such
parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the wilful or
malicious acts of such juvenile which cause injury to a person or property. The
juvenile shall be deemed to have committed the offense with the knowledge,
consent, acquiescence and permission of the parent or legal guardian in
violation of this section.
      2.   The parent or legal guardian shall be liable for the fine and
requirement of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a juvenile
defendant for violation of this section.
      3.   The sanctions of this subsection shall apply after said parent or
legal guardian shall have received a written notice thereof, either by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service
with a certificate of personal service returned, from the police department of
the city prior to the institution of any judicial sanction or penalty.
      4.   In any action brought pursuant to the provisions of this section,
the parent or legal guardian shall be made a party defendant. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Owner Responsibility
5-3-3: Impoundment
5-3-4: Redemption
5-3-5: Interference
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following terms mean:
ANIMAL: A dog.
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY: The person or persons designated to enforce this
chapter.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Facility designated or recognized by the city of Carmi for the
purpose of impounding and caring for animals.
AT LARGE: A dog shall be deemed to be at large when off the property of the
owner and not under restraint.
DANGEROUS DOG: A dog that without justification attacks a person or domestic
animal causing physical injury or death, or behaves in a manner that a
reasonable person would believe poses an unjustified imminent threat of serious
injury or death to one or more persons or domestic animals.
HUMANE MANNER: Care of an animal to include, but not be limited to, adequate
heat, ventilation and sanitary shelter, wholesome food and water, consistent
with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species,
and breed.
NUISANCE: A dog shall be considered a nuisance if it: damages, soils, defiles,
or defecates on private property other than the owner's or on public walks and
recreation areas unless such waste is immediately removed and properly disposed
of by the owner; causes unsanitary, "dangerous", or offensive conditions;
causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noisemaking; chases
vehicles; or molests, attacks, or interferes with persons or other domestic
animals on public property.
OWNER: A person having the right of property or custody of a dog or who keeps
or harbors a dog or knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises
occupied by that person.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization, or institution
commonly recognized by law as a unit.
RESTRAINT: A dog shall be considered under restraint if it is within the real
property limits of its owner or secured by a leash or lead or under the control
of a responsible person. (Ord. 1420, 5-3-2010)
5-3-2: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   All dogs shall be kept under restraint.
   B.   Every "dangerous" dog, as determined by the city dogcatcher, shall be
confined by its owner within a building or secure enclosure adequately capable
of restraining the animal, and ensures the public safety and shall be securely
muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of its owner.
   C.   No dog shall be allowed to cause a nuisance. The owner of every dog
shall be held responsible for every behavior of such dog under the provisions
of this chapter.
   D.   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for a second offense within one year, four hundred dollars
($400.00) for a third offense within one year, five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for a fourth or subsequent offense within one year.
   E.   Dog owners shall ensure that their dog carries identification at all
times in the form of a microchip, tag or other means to allow easy
determination of the owners. (Ord. 1420, 5-3-2010)
5-3-3: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Any dog found running at large shall be impounded by the city
dogcatcher in an animal shelter and confined in a humane manner. Immediately
upon impounding a dog, the city dogcatcher shall make every reasonable effort
to notify the owner and inform such owner of the conditions whereby custody of
the animal may be regained. Dogs not claimed by their owners within a period of
five (5) full days in which the shelter is open to the public shall become the
property of the city of Carmi.
   B.   When a dog is found running at large and its ownership is verified by
the city dogcatcher, the authority may exercise the option of serving the owner
with a notice of violation in lieu of impounding the animal.
   C.   In the event that the animal control officer finds dogs to be
suffering, it shall have the right forthwith to remove or cause to have removed
any such animals to a safe place for care at the owner's expense or to
euthanize them when necessary to prevent further suffering. Return to the owner
may be withheld until the owner shall have made full payment for all expenses
so incurred.
   D.   Disposal of an animal by any method specified herein does not relieve
the owner of liability for violations and any accrued charges. (Ord. 1420, 5-3-
2010)
5-3-4: REDEMPTION:
   A.   Any animal impounded may be redeemed by the owner thereof within five
(5) days upon payment of an impoundment fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per day,
provided that if any such animal has been impounded within the previous twenty
four (24) months, the impoundment fee shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per day
for the second impoundment, thirty dollars ($30.00) per day for the third
impoundment and forty dollars ($40.00) per day for the fourth and each
subsequent impoundment. Payment of impoundment fees is not considered to be in
lieu of any fine, penalty, or license fees.
   B.   Any animal confined for rabies quarantine, evidence, or other purpose
may be redeemed by the owner thereof upon payment of a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 1420, 5-3-2010)
5-3-5: INTERFERENCE:
No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest the city dogcatcher or any
agent thereof in the performance of any duty as herein provided.
Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1420, 5-3-2010)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-2: Stop Streets
6-1-3: Speed Limits
6-1-4: One-Way Streets
6-1-5: Driving On Main Street
6-1-6: Cleats On Tires; Vehicles Restricted
6-1-7: Weight Limits
6-1-8: Penalty
6-1-9: Engine Braking
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100
et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this title, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this title if
proceeded hereunder. (2006 Code)
6-1-2: STOP STREETS:
   A.   Stop Streets Designated:
Church Street: All vehicles traveling upon Cherry Street and approaching Church
Street from either the east or west shall come to a full stop before driving
upon or across Church Street.
First Street: All vehicles traveling upon Smith Street and approaching First
Street from the west or east shall come to a full stop before driving upon or
across First Street.
Third Street: All vehicles traveling upon Fackney Street and approaching Third
Street from either the east or west shall come to a full stop before driving
upon or across Third Street. (Ord. 386, 8-3-1925; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Installation Of Traffic Lights: There shall be installed at the
following intersections in the city, traffic lights for the better regulation
of motor vehicle traffic on Main Street:
   Main and Church Streets
   Main and Main Cross Streets
   Main and Walnut Streets
   (Ord. 649, 4-5-1948)
   C.   Placement Of Stop Signs: Stop signs shall be placed at the following
intersections in the city, and all vehicular traffic approaching such
intersections shall stop at said stop signs prior to entering such
intersections:
Rice Street and Iris Lane: Stop signs shall be placed on the east, north and
west corners of the intersection of Rice Street and Iris Lane.
Sixth Street and Maple Street: All vehicular traffic flowing north and south on
Sixth Street shall stop at the intersection of Sixth Street and Maple Street,
before proceeding through the intersection. The effect of this provision is
that, upon its passage, the intersection of Sixth Street and Maple Street shall
become a four-way stop intersection.
Seventh Street and Smith Street: Stop signs shall be placed on the east, north,
west and south corners of the intersection of Seventh Street and Smith Street.
(Ord. 1175, 11-18-1991; amd. Ord. 1194, 5-17-1993, eff. 5-31-1993; Ord. 1260,
12-1-1997; 2006 Code)
   D.   Stop Streets; Traffic Flow Regulated:
Bohleber Drive and Abelson Drive: All vehicular traffic flowing west on
Bohleber Drive shall stop at the corner of the intersection of Bohleber Drive
and Abelson Drive.
Crebs Avenue and Conger Avenue: All vehicular traffic flowing east and west on
Crebs Avenue shall stop at the intersection of Crebs Avenue and Conger Avenue
before proceeding through the intersection. The intersection of Crebs Avenue
and Conger Avenue shall become a four-way stop intersection.
Herbert Avenue and Sixth Street: All vehicular traffic flowing east on Herbert
Avenue shall stop at the intersection of Herbert Avenue and Sixth Street before
proceeding through the intersection. The intersection of Herbert Avenue and
Sixth Street shall become a one-way stop intersection.
Illini Avenue and Commerce Street: All vehicular traffic flowing west on Illini
Avenue shall stop at the intersection of Illini Avenue and Commerce Street
before proceeding through the intersection. All vehicular traffic that meets at
the intersection of Illini Avenue and 200 Commerce Street shall stop before
proceeding through the intersection. The intersection of Illini Avenue and 200
Commerce Street shall become a four-way stop intersection.
Paint Creek Lane and Rice Street: All vehicular traffic flowing east and west
on Paint Creek Lane shall stop at the intersection of Paint Creek Lane and Rice
Street before proceeding through the intersection.
Stewart Street and Hillsdale Drive and Stewart Street and Beck Street: All
vehicular traffic flowing east and west on Stewart Street shall stop at the
intersection of Stewart Street and Hillsdale Drive to the north and Stewart
Street and Beck Street to the south, before proceeding through the
intersection. The intersection of Stewart Street and Hillsdale Drive and
Stewart Street and Beck Street shall become a four-way stop intersection.
Sycamore Street and Hillsdale Drive: All vehicular traffic flowing east or west
on Sycamore Street shall stop at the corner of the intersection of Sycamore
Street and Hillsdale Drive.
Sycamore Street and Seventh Street: All vehicular traffic flowing east or west
on Sycamore Street shall stop at the corner of the intersection of Sycamore
Street and Seventh Street.
Tar Springs Drive and Paint Creek Lane: All vehicular traffic flowing either
direction on Tar Springs Drive shall stop before proceeding on to Paint Creek
Lane.
Walnut Street and Robinson Street: All vehicular traffic flowing north and
south on Walnut Street shall stop at the intersection of Walnut Street and
Robinson Street before proceeding through the intersection. The intersection of
Walnut Street and Robinson Street shall become a four-way stop intersection.
First Street and Smith Street: All vehicular traffic flowing north and south on
First Street shall stop at the intersection of First Street and Smith Street.
The intersection of First Street and Smith Street shall become a four-way stop
intersection.
Third Street and Maple Street: All vehicular traffic flowing north and south on
Third Street shall stop at the intersection of Third Street and Maple Street
before proceeding through the intersection. The intersection of Third Street
and Maple Street shall become a four-way stop intersection.
Third Street and Shipley Street: All vehicular traffic flowing north and south
on Third Street shall stop at the intersection of Third Street and Shipley
Street before proceeding through the intersection. The intersection of Third
Street and Shipley Street shall become a four-way stop intersection.
Seventh Street and Maple Street: All vehicular traffic flowing north and south
on Seventh Street shall stop at the intersection of Seventh Street and Maple
Street before proceeding through the intersection.
Ninth Street and Maple Street: All vehicular traffic flowing north and south on
Ninth Street shall stop at the intersection of Ninth Street and Maple Street
before proceeding through the intersection. All vehicular traffic flowing west
on Maple Street shall stop at the intersection of Ninth Street and Maple Street
before proceeding through the intersection. (Ord. 1254, 8-18-1997; amd. Ord.
1255, 8-18-1997; Ord. 1256, 10-6-1997; Ord. 1257, 10-6-1997; Ord. 1276, 3-29-
1999; Ord. 1287, 11-1-1999; Ord. 1299, 12-18-2000; 2006 Code; Ord. 1371, 2-20-
2007; Ord. 1372, 2-20-2007; Ord. 1402, 1-5-2009; Ord. 1442, 8-22-2011; Ord.
1443, 8-22-2011; Ord. 1454, 6-11-2012; Ord. 1469, 9-3-2013)
6-1-3: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Due Care Requirement: No vehicle shall be driven upon any street or
alley of the City at a speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper
with regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street or alley, or
endangers the safety of any person or property. The fact that the speed of a
vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the
driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill
crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding street or alley or where
special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason
of weather or street or alley conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the
street or alley in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   B.   Specific Streets:
      1.   Generally:
Streets And Alleys Maximum Speed Limits
Streets And Alleys                     Maximum Speed Limits
Alleys                                 15 miles per hour
Church Street south of Ratcliff Street 30 miles per hour
Commerce Street                        35 miles per hour
Fairground Road                        30 miles per hour
Main Street                            As posted from time to time by the State
                                       of Illinois
Oak Street                             As posted from time to time by the State
                                       of Illinois
Streets, alleys, and roadways within
Bradshaw Park, Burrell Woods and all   10 miles per hour
other City owned or maintained parks
 
   C.   Other Streets: Except as provided in subsection B of this section,
maximum speed limits for vehicles on all streets in the City shall be twenty
five (25) miles per hour.
   D.   Definitions:
    ALLEY: For purposes of this section the term "alley" shall mean, a public
way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots or buildings
and not used for general traffic circulation.
   STREET: For purposes of this section the term "street" shall mean, the
entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained where any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicle travel.
   VEHICLE: For purposes of this section the term "vehicle" shall mean, every
device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or
drawn upon a street or alley, except devices moved by human power and devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracts. (Ord. 1486, 6-2-2015, eff. 6-
9-2015)
6-1-4: ONE-WAY STREETS:
   A.   Public Schools:
      1.   Streets Designated; Days And Times Of Restriction: On the days that
the public schools are in session in the City of Carmi, Illinois, from seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M., the following shall be one-way
streets with traffic flowing as follows: (Ord. 1493, 12-1-2015, eff. 1-4-2016)
 
One-Way Street       Portion Of Street           Direction Of Flow Ord. No.
Alley west of Fourth Between Maple Street and    North             1493
Street               Sycamore Street
Fair Street          Between Tenth Street and    Northwesterly     1493
                     Eleventh Street
Rice Street          From Robinson Street to     North             1494
                     Main Street
South Jessup Street  From Main Street to         South             1494
                     Robinson Street
Fourth Street        Between Maple Street and    South             1493
                     Sycamore Street
                     Between Fair Street and the
                     north boundary line of
Tenth Street         Lincoln School owned by     South             1493
                     Carmi Community Unit School
                     District #5
 
      2.   Compliance Required: No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon
those parts of the above named streets in the City of Carmi, Illinois except as
above provided. (Ord. 1493, 12-1-2015, eff. 1-4-2016)
   B.   One-Way Streets Designated: The following streets and alleys shall be
designated as one-way, and no person shall operate a vehicle upon such streets
and alleys except as hereinbelow provided:
 
One-Way Street     Portion Of Street        Direction Of Flow        Ord. No.
Alley behind post  Connecting Kerney Street North from Kerney Street 1224
office             and Robinson Street      to Robinson Street
Alley behind White Connecting Main Cross    From Main Cross Street   1195
County Courthouse  Street and Locust Street to Locust Street
College Boulevard  East lane                North                    1201
                   West lane                South
Robinson Street    From South Jessup Street West                     1494
                   to Slocumb Street
 
6-1-5: DRIVING ON MAIN STREET:
   A.   Lincoln School Crosswalk:
      1.   U.S. Route 460: All motor vehicles traveling on or along U.S. Route
460 (SBI 14) in the City shall stop at the Lincoln School crosswalk when the
red lens of the school crossing signal located at such crosswalk is illuminated
by rapid intermittent flashes; and after such red signal ceases, such vehicles
shall proceed across said crosswalk with caution and only after allowing the
right-of-way to all pedestrians using said crosswalk. It shall be unlawful for
any person to violate the provisions of this subsection.
      2.   State Route 1: All motor vehicles traveling on or along Illinois
State Route 1 (SBI 1) in the City shall stop at the Lincoln School crosswalk
when the red lens of the school crossing signal located at such crosswalk is
illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes; and after such red signal ceases,
such vehicles shall proceed across said crosswalk with caution and only after
allowing the right-of-way to all pedestrians using said crosswalk.
      3.   Location:
         a.   The Lincoln School crosswalk on said U.S. Route 460 is located
approximately at the intersection of Tenth Street and U.S. Route 460 in the
City and shall be plainly marked by two (2) white lines indicating the
boundaries and location of said crosswalk.
         b.   The Lincoln School crosswalk on Illinois State Route 1 is located
approximately at the intersection of Ninth Street and Illinois State Route 1 in
the City and shall be plainly marked by two (2) white lines indicating the
boundaries and location of said crosswalk. (Ord. 878, 8-6-1973; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Washington Grade School Crossing:
      1.   Stop At Crossing Required: All persons driving motor vehicles on and
along Main Street (Routes 1 and 460) in the City shall stop at the Washington
Grade School crosswalk when the red lens of the school crossing signal located
at such crosswalk is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes; and thereafter,
such persons driving motor vehicles as aforesaid shall drive across said
crosswalk with caution and only after allowing the right-of- way to pedestrians
using said crosswalk. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the
provisions of this subsection.
      2.   Location: Said crosswalk crosses Main Street at a point on Main
Street directly in front of the center front door of the Washington Grade
School, and shall be plainly marked by two (2) white lines indicating the
boundaries and location of said crosswalk. (Ord. 879, 8-6-1973; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-6: CLEATS ON TIRES; VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any tractor or other vehicle with
cleats or other projections on the wheels thereof on any of the paved streets
of the City without first removing said cleats or projections or laying down a
plank at least eight inches (8") wide and two inches (2") thick over which said
tractor or vehicle may be driven. (Ord. 364, 11-5-1923; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-7: WEIGHT LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to haul over any earth or gravel street or
alley within the corporate limits of the City at any time when the ground is
thawing or, by reason of wet weather, is in condition to be cut up and injured
by heavy hauling, a load on any vehicle with tires of less than three inches
(3") in width, the combined weight of which loaded vehicle, including the
driver, shall be more than two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds; or any
vehicle with tires of three inches (3") and less than four inches (4") in
width, the combined weight of which load, vehicle and driver shall be more than
three thousand (3,000) pounds; or on any vehicle with tires of four inches (4")
and less than five inches (5") in width, the combined weight of which load,
vehicle and driver shall be more than three thousand five hundred (3,500)
pounds; or on any vehicle with tires of five inches (5") or more in width, the
combined weight of which load, vehicle and driver shall be more than three
thousand eight hundred (3,800) pounds. (Ord. 390, 2-1-1926; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this title shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2006 Code)
6-1-9: ENGINE BRAKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate or activate any engine braking system,
aka "jake brake", that emits excessive noise.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each offense. (Ord. 1412, 8-18-2009)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Miscellaneous Parking Restrictions
6-2-2: Parking In Alleys
6-2-3: Parking Near First Presbyterian Church
6-2-4: Diagonal Or Parallel Parking
6-2-5: Truck Or Tractor Parking Restricted
6-2-6: Time Limit Parking Restrictions
6-2-7: No Parking Areas Designated
6-2-1: MISCELLANEOUS PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Fireplugs; No Parking Zones: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park a motor vehicle within fifteen feet (15') of any fireplug in the city, or
in any no parking zone on the streets in the city, as designated by yellow
lines on streets and curbs. (Ord. 487, 6-3-1941; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Fire Stations; Alarms Of Fire:
      1.   Fire Station Doorways: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy
five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
      2.   Fire Alarm; Duty Of Drivers: In all cases where a fire alarm is
sounded, it shall be the duty of all persons having automobiles, trucks, or
vehicles of any kind in or upon the streets of the city to immediately drive or
move the same to the curb and remain there until fire department engines all
have passed. (Ord. 916, 5-3-1976; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Main Street Parking During Corn Days:
      1.   During Carmi's annual fall festival, Corn Days, parking of all
vehicles shall be prohibited on Main Street from Main Cross Street to Jessup
Street. Through traffic shall be diverted from this area by barricades, and
signage in accordance with Illinois department of transportation regulations.
      2.   During the annual fall festival, Corn Days, vehicular access to Main
Street from Main Cross Street to Jessup Street will be restricted and
notification of such restriction will be made by placement of barricades and
appropriate signage.
      3.   Permission of the Carmi chief of police or his designee will be
required for vehicular entry into this area during the annual fall festival,
Corn Days. Nothing herein shall be construed to deny access to this area by
emergency vehicles in the performance of their duties.
      4.   Any person who violates any provision of this subsection is guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1411, 8-18-2009)
6-2-2: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
   A.   Prohibition; Exceptions: No person shall park a motor vehicle upon any
alley right of way within the corporate limits of the city, with the following
exceptions:
      1.   Persons may park motor vehicles upon the alley rights of way within
the corporate limits of the city for a period of time not to exceed fifteen
(15) minutes for the purpose of loading or unloading the vehicles.
      2.   Persons may park motor vehicles upon the alley rights of way within
the corporate limits of the city for a period of time in excess of fifteen (15)
minutes upon twenty four (24) hours' notice to corporate authorities and city
police, and upon written permission from the corporate authorities, except
twenty four (24) hours' prior notice shall not be required in cases of
emergencies.
   B.   Towing Illegally Parked Vehicles: Any motor vehicle parked upon an
alley right of way within the corporate limits of the city, which restricts the
use of the alley by any emergency vehicles, including, but not limited to,
firetrucks, ambulances and police cars, shall be towed or removed from the
right-of-way at the vehicle owner's risk, cost, expense and liability. (Ord.
1080, 9-18-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-3: PARKING NEAR FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH:
   A.   No Parking Any Time:
      1.   There shall be no parking of vehicles at any time on the westerly
side of First Street from a point beginning where the northerly side of Stewart
Street is extended in an easterly direction, intersects with the westerly side
of First Street, thence northerly along the westerly side a distance of one
hundred twenty five feet (125').
      2.   No vehicles shall be parked on the easterly side of First Street
lying between Stewart Street and Smith Street in an area being fifteen feet
(15') southerly and fifteen feet (15') northerly of a point on First Street due
west of the southwesterly corner of the First Presbyterian Church of Carmi
property.
   B.   Parking Allowed During Special Functions:
      1.   There shall be no parking of vehicles at any time on the westerly
side of First Street lying between Stewart Street and Smith Street, except
between the hours of eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. to twelve thirty o'clock
(12:30) P.M. on Sundays, and during times when the First Presbyterian Church of
Carmi is having special meetings, funerals, weddings, and other special church
functions, not to exceed twenty five (25) times per year; provided, however,
there shall be no parking of vehicles at any time on the area described in
subsection A1 of this section.
      2.   The First Presbyterian Church of Carmi shall notify the Police
Department, in advance, of the dates and times of special meetings, funerals,
weddings, and other special church functions. (Ord. 1185, 9-8-1992; amd. 2006
Code)
6-2-4: DIAGONAL OR PARALLEL PARKING:
   A.   Main Street:
      1.   Parallel Parking: It shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle
other than parallel with the curb and with the vehicle within twelve inches
(12") of the regularly established curb line on Main Street, as follows:
Between Jessup Street and Main Cross Street, within three (3) blocks on Main
Street, on both sides thereof.
Between Fifth Street and Locust Street. (Ord. 653, 6-7-1948, eff. 7-1-1948;
amd. Ord. 772, 7-31-1961; 2006 Code)
      2.   Projecting Beyond Parking Line: It shall be unlawful for any person
to park any motor vehicle on Main Street in such a manner that it projects
beyond the back line or front line for parking marked on said street. (Ord.
487, 6-3-1941; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Main Cross Street:
      1.   Parallel Parking Required: The diagonal parking of motor vehicles on
Main Cross Street between Cherry Street and Main Street, in the City, shall be
prohibited, and all such vehicles parked on Main Cross Street as designated
shall be parked parallel with Main Cross Street as designated on either side
thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on said
portion of said Main Cross Street in violation of this subsection B1.
      2.   Additional Provision: This subsection shall be deemed to be in
addition to and not in conflict with nor a repeal of prior or existing
ordinances of the City, but shall supplement the provisions of other existing
ordinances regulating the parking of motor vehicles in the City. (Ord. 688, 4-
2-1952; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-5: TRUCK OR TRACTOR PARKING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Parking Time Limit: No person shall stand or park a tractor, semi, and
semi-trailer, vehicle classified over one (1) ton, trailer, float or bus in any
street in the City of Carmi for a longer period than three (3) continuous
hours.
   B.   Leaving With Engine Running: No person shall cause or permit a truck,
tractor, semi, semi-trailer, vehicle classified over one (1) ton, trailer,
float or bus to idle with any engine running in the City of Carmi unless such
truck, tractor, semi, semi-trailer, vehicle classified over one (1) ton,
trailer, float or bus is personally attended by the driver thereof, unless such
vehicle is in the process of being loaded or unloaded. For purposes of this
section, "personally attended by the driver thereof" shall mean the driver
shall be personally inside or on such truck, tractor, semi, semi-trailer,
vehicle classified over one (1) ton, trailer, float or bus or be personally
present upon the street or ground in the immediate vicinity where such truck,
tractor, semi, semi- trailer, vehicle classified over one (1) ton, trailer,
float or bus is parked, other than in a residence, store or other building in
the vicinity where truck, tractor, semi, semi-trailer, vehicle classified over
one (1) ton, trailer, float or bus is parked.
   C.   Nuisance; Abatement By Police: Any vehicle parked in violation of this
section is hereby declared to be a nuisance which may be abated by any police
officer removing or having removed such vehicle to any authorized garage, and
the costs of removal shall constitute a lien upon said vehicle. (Ord. 1502, 5-
3-2016, eff. 6-8-2016)
6-2-6: TIME LIMIT PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Miscellaneous:
Main Street: Parking of all vehicles shall be prohibited and it shall be
unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand or park along and upon the corporate
limits of Main Street from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to five o'clock (5:
00) A.M. every day. (Ord. 1331, 5-19-2003)
   B.   Ten Minute Parking:
U.S. Post Office: It shall be unlawful for any person to park for more than ten
(10) minutes any motor driven vehicle, or any tractor, engine, or any
conveyance of any kind or character upon or along the east side of Walnut
Street and in front of the property occupied by the U.S. Post Office between
the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of each and
every day, except Sunday. (Ord. 469, 10-3-1938; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Fifteen Minute Parking:
South Jessup Street: The east and west sides of South Jessup Street shall be a
loading/unloading zone only with a fifteen (15) minute time limit. (Ord. 1494,
12-1-2015, eff. 1-4-2016)
   D.   Thirty Minute Parking:
Walnut Street: It shall be unlawful for vehicles to park for a length of time
longer than thirty (30) minutes on the south half of the west side of Walnut
Street lying between Main Street and Robinson Street in the City, between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Central
Standard Time. (Ord. 1125, 1-18-1988; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 1494, 12-1-2015,
eff. 1-4-2016)
6-2-7: NO PARKING AREAS DESIGNATED:
No person shall park a motor vehicle on the following streets, or portions
thereof, in the City:
No Parking Street Location Ord. No.
No Parking Street   Location                                          Ord. No.
Bohleber Drive      Northwest side, 524 feet from College Boulevard,  1284
                    going northeast a distance of 50 feet
Bohleber Drive      West side, from 574 feet from College Boulevard,  1284
                    going north a distance of 88 feet
                    East side, from the intersection of Bohleber
Bohleber Drive      Drive and Abelson Drive, south for approximately  1318
                    75 feet
Cherry Street       South side, between Third Street and Main Cross   702
                    Street
Cherry Street       North side, from Locust Street to Main Cross      1477
                    Street
                    South side, between Third Street and Main Cross
                    Street, except:
                    A. Vehicles may be permitted to park on the
                    westerly 49 feet 4 inches of that part of the
                    south side of Cherry Street lying between Walnut
                    Street and Main Cross Street; and
                    B. Automobiles only may be permitted to park on a
                    part of the south side of Cherry Street lying
                    between Walnut Street and Main Cross Street,
                    being a strip commencing 227 feet west of the
Cherry Street       southwest corner of the intersection of Cherry    886
                    Street and Main Cross Street and running thence
                    west 24 feet 8 inches; and
                    C. Vehicles only may be permitted to park on a
                    part of the south side of Cherry Street lying
                    between Walnut Street and Main Cross Street,
                    being a strip commencing 102 feet west of the
                    southwest corner of the intersection of Cherry
                    Street and Main Cross Street and running thence
                    west 99 feet during the hours that White County
                    Bank of Carmi is not open for business, only.
Church Street       Both sides, from Ratcliff Street to Cameo Street  897
Church Street       South 50 feet on east side, lying between         903
                    Robinson Street and Main Street
                    North 37 feet on east side of Church Street of
Church Street       the south 110 feet of the area lying between      903
                    Robinson Street and Main Street
Church Street       South 40 feet of west side, lying between         905
                    Robinson Street and Main Street
                    East side, from Main Street to bridge crossing
College Boulevard   College Boulevard, being the approximate north    973
                    486 feet on east side of College Boulevard
                    East sides of northbound and southbound lanes;
College Boulevard   this provision shall only affect College          1201
                    Boulevard from Main Street to the bridge on
                    College Boulevard
College Boulevard   Cutoff streets connecting east lane of College    1201
                    Boulevard to west lane of College Boulevard
Commerce Street     Either side, from Illinois Route 1 (Main Street)  1093
                    to Illinois Route 14 (Oak Street)
Council Street      South 150 feet                                    1042
Edgewood Lane                                                        1082
Elm Street          North side, between Third Street and Fourth       973
                    Street
Fairground Road                                                      910
Herbert Avenue      North side, from 6th Street to 7th Street         1484
                    South side, from the intersection of 7th Street
Herbert Avenue      and Herbert Avenue east for approximately 120     1484
                    feet between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M.
                    Monday through Friday
Locust Street       East side, from Cherry Street to Main Street      1477
                    West 74 feet of south side, lying between South
Main Street         Jessup Street and Church Street, except           910, 1317
                    commercial buses are permitted to park on east 45
                    feet of such area
                    Either side, between Ninth Street and Station
Main Street         498+70 (a point located approximately 0.37 mile   1058
                    west of Sunset Drive)
                    Either side, from a point 525 feet southwest of
Main Street         Staley Street to a point 525 feet northeast of    1135
                    Staley Street
                    Either side, between South Ninth Street and South
                    Seventh Street from 7:30 A.M. Central Standard
Main Street         Time until 3:30 P.M. Central Standard Time when   1308
                    school is in session during the calendar school
                    year
                    South side, between South Ninth Street and South
Main Street         Seventh Street from 7:30 A.M. Central Standard    1309
                    Time until 3:30 P.M. Central Standard Time when
                    school is in session during the calendar year
Main Street         On Little Wabash River bridge or within 100 feet  1271
                    of each end
Oak Street          Third Street to City limits                       457
Oak Street          North side, between Fourth Street and Fifth       973
                    Street, except west 125 feet thereof
Oak Street          Either side, from a point 150 feet west of        1163
                    Commerce Street to Fairground Road
Park Lane Drive                                                      1193
                    North side, from South Jessup Street to Rice
                    Street, from 7:00 A.M. until 4:00 P.M. when
Robinson Street     school is in session during the calendar year;    1494
                    this is restricted and reserved for school bus
                    parking only
Robinson Street     North side, from Rice Street to Slocumb Street    1494
Roser Drive                                                          1082
South Jessup Street East side, between Stewart Street and Cherry      708
                    Street
                    East or west side, south of Main Street for a
                    distance of approximately 235 feet to Robinson
South Jessup Street Street, from 7:00 A.M. until 4:00 P.M. when       1494
                    school is in session during the calendar school
                    year
Stewart Street      South side, between Jessup Street and Brook       862
                    Street
Walnut Street       South 47 feet of east side, lying between         902
                    Robinson Street and Main Street
                    North 16 feet of east side of Walnut Street of
Walnut Street       the south 110 feet of the area lying between      902
                    Robinson Street and Main Street
Walnut Street       West side, from Kerney Street to Webb Street      919
Second Street       East side, between Stewart Street and Smith       858
                    Street
Second Street       West side, between right-of-way of Penn Central   973
                    Railroad and Shipley Street
Third Street        Main Street to Oak Street                         457
Third Street        East side, from Main Street to the Evansville     1477
                    Western Railway right-of-way
Third Street        West side, from the Evansville Western Railway    1477
                    right-of-way to the north end of Third Street
Fifth Street        East side between Stewart Street and Sycamore     1628
                    Street
Fifth Street        East side, from Main Street to 371 feet north     1477
                    from Evansville Western Railway right-of-way
                    West side, from curb at intersection of Fifth
Fifth Street        Street and Oak Street, going north a distance of  1267
                    127 feet
Ninth Street        West side, from Main Street to a point 498.5 feet 1121
                    north of the north side of Main Street
                    East side, from the intersection of Fair Street
Eleventh Street     and Eleventh Street going north a distance of 161 1401
                    feet from 2:00 P.M. CST until 3:30 P.M. while
                    school buses are loading and unloading
 
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Registration Requirements
6-3-2: Operation Of Bicycles; Equipment Requirements
6-3-3: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Required:
      1.   Any person who owns a bicycle or bicycles within the corporate
limits of the city shall register the bicycle(s) with the police department;
said registry shall be excepted from any person, business or corporation which
has bicycle(s) on its premises for repair or sale.
      2.   The police department will not take a theft report of a bicycle
unless the bicycle has previously been registered.
   B.   Hours And Fee: The registration shall be between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., Monday through Friday,
excluding holidays. The registration fee is one dollar ($1.00) and shall be due
upon registration.
   C.   Registration Tag: Any person who is a resident of the city who is
riding, possessing, transporting, or carrying a bicycle shall have a
registration sticker/tag that has been previously issued by the police
department affixed to the bicycle, and visible at all times to a police officer
or the officer's agent.
   D.   Proof Of Registration: When requested by a police officer, or the
officer's agent, any person in possession of a bicycle shall provide proof of
registration.
   E.   Improper Or Missing Registration:
      1.   Impoundment Of Bicycles: Any bicycle with a defaced, missing, or
altered registration shall be subject to seizure by the police department.
      2.   Reregistration: The owner of any bicycle with a defaced, missing, or
altered registration shall immediately reregister the bicycle with the police
department.
   F.   Change Of Ownership: After the initial registration, any person who
resides within the city and assumes ownership of a bicycle by purchase, trade
or transfer of ownership shall, within ten (10) days, register the bicycle with
the police department. (Ord. 1334, 9-2-2003)
6-3-2: OPERATION OF BICYCLES; EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
All rules and regulations that are applicable in the Illinois vehicle code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1501 through 5/11-1515, shall be enforced as
part of this chapter. (Ord. 1334, 9-2-2003)
6-3-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. Any person who is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this chapter for a third time shall be guilty of
a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 1334, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles
6-4-3: Leaving Vehicles On Street
6-4-4: Inoperable Vehicles Declared A Nuisance
6-4-5: Disposal Of Inoperable Vehicles
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is left on any street, highway, or
property for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle
reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: A. Any motor vehicle, whether on public or private
property and in view of the general public, from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged, or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power.
   B.   "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations nor to any motor
vehicles that are kept within a building when not in use, to historic vehicles
over twenty five (25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a
place of business engaged in wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
other organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is not a street or highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon. (Ord. 1197,
7-19-1993)
6-4-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person shall leave
any vehicle at any place within the city, whether on public or private
property, for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle
reasonably to appear to have been abandoned. (Ord. 1197, 7-19-1993)
6-4-3: LEAVING VEHICLES ON STREET:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle on any street, highway, or property within the city. (Ord. 1197,
7-19-1993)
6-4-4: INOPERABLE VEHICLES DECLARED A NUISANCE:
"Inoperable motor vehicles", as defined in section
6-4-1 of this chapter, whether on public or private property, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 1197, 7-19-1993)
6-4-5: DISPOSAL OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   Disposal Required; Notice From City: All persons are required to
dispose of any inoperable motor vehicles under their control within seven (7)
days upon written notice received from the corporate authorities or from the
chief of police or any member of his department designated by him commanding
such disposition of said inoperable motor vehicle.
   B.   Disposal By City: If, after the seven (7) days' notice has expired, the
owner has not disposed of said inoperable motor vehicle under his control, then
the chief of police or any member of his department may remove any inoperable
motor vehicle or parts thereof. (Ord. 1197, 7-19-1993)
CHAPTER 5
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Violations Authorizing Impoundment
6-5-3: Seizure And Impoundment
6-5-4: Administrative Hearing
6-5-5: Disposition Of Impounded Motor Vehicle
6-5-6: Motor Vehicle Possession
6-5-7: Towing Agency
6-5-8: Refund Of Administrative Fee
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS DAY: Any day in which the offices of city hall are open to the public
for a minimum of seven (7) hours.
LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
LEVEL 2 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record titleholder(s) of the motor vehicle as registered
with the secretary of state, state of Illinois; or if not registered in
Illinois, the particular state where the motor vehicle is registered. (Ord.
1440, 7-18-2011)
6-5-2: VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission of
the owner of record, that is used in connection with the following violations,
shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the city, and the owner of
record of said motor vehicle shall be liable to the city for a level 1
administrative fee, as provided for in this chapter, in addition to any towing
and storage fees as hereinafter provided.
State Statute Violations
State Statute       Violations
625 ILCS 5/6-303    Driving while license revoked
625 ILCS 5/11-204   Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer
625 ILCS 5/11-501   Driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs
625 ILCS 5/11-503   Reckless driving or aggravated reckless driving
625 ILCS 5/11-506   Street racing
625 ILCS 5/11-601.5 Speeding in excess of 40 mph class A misdemeanor
720 ILCS 5/11-6     Indecent solicitation of a child
720 ILCS 5/12-2     Aggravated assault
720 ILCS 5/12-4     Aggravated battery
720 ILCS 5/12-4.2   Aggravated battery with a firearm
720 ILCS 5/12-4.3   Aggravated battery of a child
720 ILCS 5/12-4.6   Aggravated battery of a senior citizen
720 ILCS 5/16A-3    Retail theft of merchandise exceeding $150.00 value
720 ILCS 5/18-1     Robbery
720 ILCS 5/18-2     Armed robbery
720 ILCS 5/19-1     Burglary
720 ILCS 5/19-3     Residential burglary
720 ILCS 5/20-1     Arson
720 ILCS 5/20-1.1   Aggravated arson
720 ILCS 5/20-2     Possession of explosives or incendiary devices
720 ILCS 5/21-1     Criminal damage to property
720 ILCS 5/25-1     Mob action
720 ILCS 570/401    Manufacture or delivery unauthorized controlled substance
720 ILCS 570/401.1  Controlled substance trafficking
720 ILCS 570/402    Unauthorized possession under the controlled substances act
720 ILCS 550/4      Possession of more than 10 grams of any substances
                    containing cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5      Manufacture or delivery of cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5.1    Cannabis trafficking
720 ILCS 550/5.2    Delivery of cannabis on school grounds
720 ILCS 550/8      Unauthorized production or possession of Cannabis sativa
                    plant
720 ILCS 5/24-1     Unlawful use of weapons
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
720 ILCS 5/24-3.3   Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms on the premises of a
                    school
 
   B.   For any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission
of the owner of record, that is used in connection with any custodial
violations not listed in subsection A of this section, but still results in
seizure and impoundment by the city, the owner of record of said motor vehicle
shall be liable to the city for a level 2 administrative fee, as provided for
in this chapter, in addition to any towing and storage fees as hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 1440, 7-18-2011)
6-5-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility approved by the
city. This chapter shall not apply if the motor vehicle used in the violation
was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered or
reasonably should have been discovered.
   B.   The police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as the
owner of the motor vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the
motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person,
of the fact of the seizure and of the motor vehicle owner's right to request an
administrative hearing to be conducted under this chapter. (Ord. 1440, 7-18-
2011)
6-5-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   At the time of impoundment or within five (5) business days after a
motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter, the city shall
notify by personal service or by certified mail to the owner of record of the
owner's right to request a hearing to challenge whether a violation of this
chapter has occurred. The owner of record seeking a hearing must file a written
request for a hearing with the chief of police, or his designee, no later than
five (5) business days after notice was mailed. The hearing date must be
scheduled no more than ten (10) business days after the request for a hearing
has been filed. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to be heard at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the
hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
   B.   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in violation of
this chapter, then the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the owner
of record of the motor vehicle liable to the city for the applicable
administrative fee.
   C.   If, after a hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in such a
violation, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the owner and
for the return of the motor vehicle.
   D.   If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and the hearing
officer shall enter a default order in favor of the city in the amount of the
administrative fee. However, if the owner of record pays such administrative
fee and the motor vehicle is returned to the owner, no default order needs to
be entered if the owner is informed of his or her right to a hearing in which
case an order of liability shall be deemed to have been made when the city
receives proof of notification.
   E.   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the police department, the impounded motor vehicle shall be
released to the owner of record. The owner of the motor vehicle shall still be
liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
   F.   If an administrative fee is imposed for a violation of this chapter,
the bond will be forfeited to the city; however if a violation of this chapter
is not proven by preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be returned to
the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this chapter
shall be held by the city until the hearing officer issues a decision, or, if
there is a judicial review, until the court of jurisdiction issues its orders.
(Ord. 1440, 7-18-2011)
6-5-5: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLE:
   A.   An administrative fee imposed pursuant to this chapter shall constitute
a debt due and owing the city. A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this
chapter shall remain impounded until:
      1.   The administrative fee is paid to the city and all applicable towing
fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case the owner of record shall be
given possession of the motor vehicle; or
      2.   A bond in an amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the police department and all applicable towing fees are paid to
the towing agent, at which time the motor vehicle will be released to the owner
of record; or
      3.   The motor vehicle is deemed abandoned in which case the motor
vehicle shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition
of abandoned motor vehicles. (Ord. 1440, 7-18-2011)
6-5-6: MOTOR VEHICLE POSSESSION:
Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the city's action under this chapter, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered against an owner of record who is in default, may be
disposed of as an unclaimed motor vehicle as provided by law, provided,
however, that where proceedings have been instituted under state or federal
drug asset forfeiture laws, the subject motor vehicle may not be disposed of by
the city except as consistent with those proceedings. (Ord. 1440, 7-18-2011)
6-5-7: TOWING AGENCY:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in possession of
the motor vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the police department
confirming compliance with foregoing requirements, and retain photocopies of
that documentation in their files for a period of not less than six (6) months
following release of the motor vehicle. The foregoing information shall be made
available to the authorities of the city of Carmi for inspection and copying,
upon their request, by the towing or storage company. The towing or storage
company is prohibited from releasing any motor vehicle they may tow within the
city until and unless they obtain documentation as aforesaid.
   B.   The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive a reasonable
fee from the owner or person entitled to possession of any such motor vehicle
prior to the release of the motor vehicle. The fee shall be to cover the cost
of removing said motor vehicle and, in addition thereto, the cost of storage of
said motor vehicle for each day or fraction thereof that said motor vehicle
shall have remained stored.
   C.   The fees in this section shall be in addition to any fee levied or
assessed against the owner or operator of said motor vehicle by reason of
violation of any ordinance or statute and any arrest which may have resulted
from such violation. (Ord. 1440, 7-18-2011)
6-5-8: REFUND OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
In the event a judgment of not guilty is entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction on all underlying charges that could have resulted in the
impoundment of a motor vehicle, then within thirty (30) days upon presentation
of a certified copy of said judgment to the city police department, any
administrative fees or posted bonds obtained by the city shall be refunded to
the paying party. (Ord. 1440, 7-18-2011)
CHAPTER 6
GOLF CARTS, NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLES, AND RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Requirements
6-6-3: Permits
6-6-4: Enforcement
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terms Defined:
CITY STREETS: Only those city streets designated on exhibit A attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by reference, located within
the boundaries of the city.
COUNTY ROADS: Include any roads outside the boundaries of the city limits.
GOLF CART: Defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-123.9 and means a
vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of transporting one
or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment while engaged in
the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or maintaining the condition
of the grounds on a public or private golf course. See also subsection B of
this section.
NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE: A self-propelled, electric powered, four (4) wheeled
motor vehicle (or a self-propelled, gasoline powered, 4 wheeled motor vehicle
with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters) that is capable of
attaining in one mile a speed of more than twenty (20) miles per hour, but not
more than twenty five (25) miles per hour, and which conforms to federal
regulations under title 49 CFR part 571.500. See also subsection B of this
section.
RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Shall be defined as provided in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-168.8 and shall mean any motorized off highway device
designed to travel primarily off highway, sixty four inches (64") or less in
width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or
less, traveling on four (4) or more nonhighway tires, designed with a
nonstraddle seat and a steering wheel for steering control, except equipment
such as lawn mowers. See also subsection B of this section.
STATE ROADS: Include Illinois Route 1 and Illinois Route 14.
   B.   Exclusions: For purposes of this chapter, a "golf cart", a
"recreational off highway vehicle" and a "neighborhood vehicle" specifically
does not include all-terrain vehicles, off highway motorcycles and any other
vehicle which is not described within the foregoing definitions of "golf
carts", "neighborhood vehicles" or "recreational off highway vehicles". (Ord.
1461, 9-17-2012, eff. 9-27-2012)
6-6-2: REQUIREMENTS:
All persons operating a golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or recreational off
highway vehicle on the designated streets of the city must comply with the
following requirements:
   A.   Proof of ownership.
   B.   Proof of liability insurance.
   C.   Must display city registration on rear of vehicle.
   D.   Must be inspected by city police chief or his designated
representative.
   E.   Must be equipped with seat belts, a windshield, horn, brakes, turn
signals, a steering wheel apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red
reflectorized warning devices in the rear, red reflectorized warning devices in
front, a slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the vehicle 1 , a headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to
the front, a taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear, and brake lights. When operated on a roadway, a golf
cart, neighborhood vehicle or a recreational off highway vehicle shall have its
headlight and taillamps lighted.
   F.   Must obey all traffic laws of the state of Illinois and the city of
Carmi.
   G.   Must be eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   H.   Can be driven on only those streets designated on exhibit A attached to
the ordinance codified herein.
   I.   Must have a valid driver's license.
   J.   Must not exceed twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   K.   Crossing of state highways will only be allowed at Main and Main Cross
Street, Main and Walnut Street, Main and Church Street, and Main and Plum
Street.
   L.   Golf carts, neighborhood vehicles and recreational off highway vehicles
shall not be operated in inclement weather nor when visibility is impaired by
weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of five hundred feet (500').
   M.   Each driver and passenger of a golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or
recreational off highway vehicle shall wear a properly fastened and adjusted
seat safety belt. Children must be secured in a child restraint system as
required pursuant to the child passenger protection act 2 .
   N.   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart,
neighborhood vehicle or recreational off highway vehicle on a roadway while
under the influence of alcohol or drugs is subject to sections 11-500 through
11-502 of Illinois Compiled Statutes 3 .
   O.   Golf carts, neighborhood vehicles and recreational off highway vehicles
may not be operated on sidewalks or other public property not accessible to or
authorized to vehicular traffic.
   P.   Golf carts, neighborhood vehicles or recreational off highway vehicles
may not be operated on streets and highways and roads under the jurisdiction of
the Illinois department of transportation (Illinois Routes 1 and 14) or the
county highway department.
   Q.   Anyone in paid status as a camper at the city campground in Burrell's
Woods may, at their own risk operate a golf cart in the camping area only. As
persons camping may be from outside the Carmi area, and may have no desire to
operate a golf cart outside the campground location, no registration would be
required. Any roadway in the city property of Burrell's Woods would be
restricted to registered vehicles, just as any other city street. (Ord. 1461,
9-17-2012, eff. 9-27-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. As required by other vehicles in 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
2 1. 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
3 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-500 - 11-502.
6-6-3: PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or
a recreational off highway vehicle without obtaining a permit from the city
clerk as provided herein. Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and
may be renewed annually. The cost of a permit is thirty five dollars ($35.00).
Insurance coverage is to be verified in effect by the city clerk when renewing
the permits.
   B.   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of applicant.
      2.   Name of liability insurance carrier.
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of the golf cart,
neighborhood vehicle or recreational off highway vehicle.
      4.   Proof of ownership.
      5.   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the city from any
and all future claims resulting from the operation of their golf cart,
neighborhood vehicle or recreational off highway vehicle pursuant to this
chapter or any other ordinance of the city of Carmi.
      6.   Photostatic copy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or recreational off
highway vehicle to be operated on city streets.
      7.   Such other information as the city may require.
   C.   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or recreational off highway
vehicle must be inspected by the chief of police (or designee) to ensure that
the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Any handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed by a
physician that he is a handicapped applicant and is able to safely operate a
motorized golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or recreational off highway vehicle
on the roadways designated.
      3.   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of Illinois statutes regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state of Illinois.
   D.   A golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or recreational off highway vehicle
will be allowed to be driven to the police department to have the vehicle
inspected and permitted, if the requestor has called ahead and arranged with
the chief of police (or designee) a specific meeting time. (Ord. 1461, 9-17-
2012, eff. 9-27-2012)
6-6-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter or if there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate
the motorized golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or recreational off highway
vehicle on the designated roadways.
   B.   Every person operating a golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or
recreational off highway vehicle pursuant to permit hereunder on designated
city streets has all the rights and duties applicable to a driver of any other
vehicle pursuant to the state highway traffic laws and regulations except when
those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts,
neighborhood vehicles or recreational off highway vehicles.
   C.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall upon
conviction be subject to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and the costs of
prosecution. A second conviction shall result in suspension of permit, to be
reinstated only by the city council.
   D.   Upon conviction of operating a golf cart, neighborhood vehicle or
recreational off highway vehicle on a state highway, other than crossing at the
designated locations, shall result in a fine no less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) plus
court costs. A first conviction shall result in the suspension of permit for
the remainder of the calendar year. (Ord. 1461, 9-17-2012, eff. 9-27-2012)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Excavation Damage To Underground Utilities
7-1-2: Driving Over Oiled Streets
7-1-3: Signs Or Leaflets On City Property
7-1-1: EXCAVATION DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to prevent injury to persons
and damage to property resulting from excavation damage to underground
utilities, to any utility line, street, roadway, alley or other right of way.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
BLASTING: The use of an explosive device for the excavation of earth or the
demolition of a structure.
CITY: The city of Carmi, White County, Illinois.
CORPORATE LIMITS: Includes, but is not limited to, premises held under lease or
right of way grant wherein the city appears as grantor.
DAMAGE: Includes, but is not limited to, the substantial weakening of a
structural or lateral support of a utility line, penetration or destruction of
any utility line protective coating, housing or other protective device, and
the severance (partial or complete) of any utility line, or the destruction or
damage to the ground, concrete, blacktop, soil, cement or other surface of any
street, roadway, alley or other right of way.
EXCAVATE OR EXCAVATION: The movement of earth by use of mechanized equipment or
explosive device and includes, but is not limited to, auguring, backfilling,
digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing in, pulling in, ripping,
scraping, trenching and tunneling.
EXCAVATOR: Any person who engages in excavating.
MECHANIZED EQUIPMENT: Equipment powered or energized by any motor used for
excavation or demolition work, including, but not limited to, trenchers,
bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe
plows or other equipment used for plowing in or pulling in cable or pipe.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, corporation, a state or any
subdivision or instrumentality of a state, and their employees, agents,
contractors, subcontractors or legal representatives.
STREET, ROADWAY, ALLEY OR OTHER RIGHT OF WAY: Any real estate used for purposes
of ingress, egress and regress in the city of Carmi, Illinois.
UTILITY LINE: Any cable, pipeline or other conduit installed underground, by
which a utility operator furnishes material or services.
UTILITY OPERATOR: A person who supplies any of the following materials or
services by means of an underground utility line:
      1.   Flammable, toxic or corrosive gas;
      2.   Petroleum, petroleum products, or hazardous liquids;
      3.   Electricity;
      4.   Communications;
      5.   Sewage disposal; and
      6.   Water.
   C.   Written Notice To City; Information Required: No person may excavate or
engage in blasting within the corporate limits of the city unless a written
notice of excavation or blasting is filed with the appropriate city official at
least seven (7) days, but not more than thirty (30) days, prior to commencement
of the excavation or blasting. The notice of excavation or blasting shall
contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person performing the
excavation or blasting.
      2.   The location and description of the projected excavation or blasting
in sufficient detail to enable any utility operator operating within the
corporate limits of the city to determine whether any of its utility lines may
be subject to damage, and whether streets, roadways, alleys or any other rights
of way may be subject to damage.
      3.   The date the excavation or blasting is scheduled to commence.
   D.   Emergency Excavations: A written notice of excavation or blasting is
not required for emergency excavation or blasting by an excavator to eliminate
an imminent danger to health or property; provided, however, that prior oral
notice of the emergency excavation is given to the appropriate city official
where the emergency excavation is to be performed and request is made for
emergency assistance from the city in locating and providing protection to all
utility lines, streets, roadways, alleys or other rights of way within its
corporate limits.
   E.   Damage Repair Required; Bond: A person engaging in excavation or
blasting shall take every reasonable precaution to avoid damage to a utility
line, street, roadway, alley or other right of way located and described by the
appropriate city official; however, any person who damages a utility line,
street, roadway, alley or other right of way while excavating or blasting is
obligated to make such repairs to the utility line, street, roadway, alley or
other right of way as will restore it substantially to the same condition as it
was originally. To ensure the proper repair, the appropriate city official may
require the person, before commencement of any excavation or blasting, to enter
into a bond payable to the city in a sum commensurate, in the opinion of the
appropriate city official, with the injury to be done to the utility line,
street, roadway, alley or other right of way, conditioned for its proper
restoration within such time as the appropriate city official may prescribe.
   F.   Notify City Of Damage; Alert Public: A person who damages a utility
line, street, roadway, alley or other right of way while excavating or blasting
shall immediately notify the appropriate city official of the location and
nature of the damage and shall allow the city or other utility operator a
reasonable time to repair the damage before completing the excavation around
the utility line, roadway, street, alley or other right of way. The excavator
shall immediately warn persons in the vicinity of an excavation site of any
break in a utility line resulting in the escape of any flammable, toxic, or
corrosive gas or liquid and shall immediately notify emergency response
personnel, including the police, fire department and any appropriate city
official.
   G.   Relocation Of Line By Franchised Utility: If the city requires any
franchised utility company to relocate their utility lines, the city shall make
requests to the franchised utility company, and the franchised utility company
shall have two (2) days in which to relocate their utility lines; failure of
the franchised utility company to relocate their utility lines within two (2)
days from date of written notice from the city shall relieve the city from any
and all damages and liability to the franchised utility company for any damages
to the utility lines of such franchised utility company.
   H.   Penalties:
      1.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who violates this section shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense by the violator.
      2.   Actions To Recover Penalty: All actions to recover the penalties
assessed shall be brought by the city attorney upon complaint of the
appropriate authorities of the city council. All such actions shall be brought
in the court having jurisdiction over the place where the violation occurred or
in which the defendant has his residence or principal place of business.
      3.   Disposition Of Fines: All fines collected shall be paid into the
general fund of the city. (Ord. 1035, 12-21-1981; amd. 2006 Code)
7-1-2: DRIVING OVER OILED STREETS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to
be driven any automobile, truck, vehicle, or upon or over any oiled street
within the limits of the city, so long as said street is properly barricaded
and a notice forbidding travel upon the same posted in a conspicuous place at
each barricade.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 507, 7-3-1944; amd. 2006 Code)
7-1-3: SIGNS OR LEAFLETS ON CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Attaching To Poles: It shall be unlawful at any time for any person to
place upon any city utility or light pole any sign, advertisement, lettering or
leaflets of any kind or description.
   B.   Placing On City Property: It shall be unlawful at any time for any
person to place upon any city real estate, right of way, easement or other
property owned by the city any permanent signs, advertisements, lettering or
leaflets of any kind or description.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall be found to have placed upon any city
utility, light pole or upon any other city property or right of way, any signs,
advertisements, lettering or leaflets of any kind or description, in violation
of subsection A or B of this section, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every violation thereof. (Ord. 1092, 5-20-1985;
amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANTENNA SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definition
7-2-2: License Ordinance Required
7-2-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, "community antenna system" shall mean a system of
antennas, coaxial cables, wave guides, conductors, and any other related means
for the transmission and distribution of audio, signals, and visual images and
characters transmitted within the city. (Ord. 807, 1-3-1966)
7-2-2: LICENSE ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
No community antenna system shall be erected, maintained or operated in the
city without the prior passage of a license ordinance granting the same, with
the approval of the proper city officials. (Ord. 807, 1-3-1966)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Library Established
7-3-2: Board Of Library Trustees
7-3-3: Use Of Library
7-3-4: Tax Levy
7-3-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
There shall be established and maintained within the city a public library and
reading room for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city, as soon
after the taking effect of this chapter as the same can be done under the
existing law of the state and the further provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
283, 3-2-1914)
7-3-2: BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall, with the approval of the city council,
appoint a board of nine (9) trustees for the library and reading room chosen
from city residents with reference to their fitness for such office. Provided,
that not more than one member of the city council shall at any one time be a
member of said board.
   B.   Terms Of Office; Removals: The trustees shall hold office one- third
(1/3) for one year, one-third (1/3) two (2) years, and one-third (1/3) for
three (3) years, from July 1 following their appointment, and at their first
regular meeting shall cast lots for the respective terms; and annually
thereafter, the mayor shall, before July 1 of each year, appoint as before
three (3) trustees, to take the place of the retiring trustees, who shall hold
office for three (3) years, and until their successors are appointed. The mayor
may remove any trustee in the manner provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/3.1-35-10.
   C.   Vacancies; Compensation: Vacancies in the board of trustees occasioned
by removals, resignations, or otherwise shall be reported by the president of
the board to the mayor, and be filled in like manner as original appointments,
and no director shall receive compensation as such, but shall be reimbursed for
the actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties
from the library fund.
   D.   Organization; Meetings; Authority:
      1.   Officers:
         a.   Within sixty (60) days after their appointment, the trustees
shall take the oath of office and meet to organize the board. The required oath
may be taken and subscribed before the secretary or secretary pro tempore of
the library board, the county clerk, the judge entering the order for the
establishment referendum or before any other person authorized to administer
oaths.
         b.   The first action taken at the organizational meeting of the board
shall be the election of a president and a secretary and such other officers as
the board may deem necessary, and the board shall further provide in the bylaws
of the board as to the length of the terms in office. The trustees shall
determine the time and place of all official meetings of the board at which any
legal action may be taken and shall post notice thereof at the public library
maintained by the board and at not less than one public place within the
corporate confines of the area of library service one day in advance thereof.
      2.   Duties: The library board shall have the duties set out in 75
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-7 and 5/4-7.1.
   E.   Annual Report: Within thirty (30) days after the expiration of each
fiscal year of the city, the board of trustees shall make a report of the
condition of their trust on the last day of the fiscal year, to the city
council. This report shall be made in writing and shall be verified under oath
by the secretary, or some other responsible officer of the board of trustees.
It shall contain: 1) an itemized statement of the various sums of money
received from the library fund and from other sources; 2) an itemized statement
of the objects and purposes for which those sums of money have been expended;
3) a statement of the number of books and periodicals available for use, and
the number and character thereof circulated; 4) a statement of the real and
personal property acquired by legacy, purchase, gift or otherwise; 5) a
statement of the character of any extensions of library service which have been
undertaken; 6) a statement of the financial requirements of the library for the
ensuing fiscal year for inclusion in the appropriation of the city council, and
of the amount of money which, in the judgment of the board of library trustees,
it will be necessary to levy for library purposes in the next annual tax levy
ordinance; 7) a statement as to the amount of accumulations and the reasons
therefor; 8) a statement as to any outstanding liabilities including those for
bonds still outstanding or amounts due for judgments, settlements, liability
insurance, or for amounts due under a certificate of the board; 9) any other
statistics, information and suggestions that may be of interest. A report shall
also be filed, at the same time with the Illinois state library. (Ord. 283, 3-
2-1914; amd. 2006 Code)
7-3-3: USE OF LIBRARY:
The library and reading room established under this chapter shall be free to
the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject to such reasonable rules and
regulations as the library board may adopt, and said board may exclude from the
use of said library and reading room any and all persons who shall wilfully
violate such rules. The board may extend the privileges and use of such library
and reading room to persons residing outside of the city in the state, upon
such terms and conditions as the board may from time to time by its regulations
prescribe. (Ord. 283, 3-2-1914)
7-3-4: TAX LEVY:
The city council shall annually at the time of passing the annual appropriation
and tax levy ordinances appropriate and levy such sum of money as they shall
deem sufficient to maintain such library and reading room, and in general to
carry out the spirit and intent of this chapter; provided, that the amount of
tax levied for such purpose in any one year shall not exceed that which is
permitted by law on all the taxable property in the city. (Ord. 283, 3-2-1914;
amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CARMI MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-4-1: Authorization For Commercial Operations
7-4-2: Qualifications; Financial Ability
7-4-3: Management
7-4-4: Requirements And Responsibilities
7-4-5: Violations; Penalties
7-4-6: Severability
7-4-1: AUTHORIZATION FOR COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS:
   A.   Contract Required: No person, partnership, corporation, trust,
association or other legal entity shall engage in the sale or rental of any
commodity, supplies, services or any business or commercial activity whatsoever
within the limits of the Carmi municipal airport, nor use the Carmi municipal
airport as a base or terminal for the carrying on of commercial aviation, fixed
base operator, local operator, repair shop, scheduled or nonscheduled air
carrier carrying passengers, freight, express or mail, or for student flying,
student instruction, communications, crop dusting and spraying or any other
commercial flying except by contract authorizing such operations with the city.
   B.   Aircraft Space Rentals Excepted: Persons, partnerships, corporations,
trusts, associations or other legal entities engaging only in aircraft space
rentals at the Carmi municipal airport are not subject to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, except they must have a written hangar rental
agreement with the city, and abide by the terms thereof. (Ord. 929, 1-3-1977)
7-4-2: QUALIFICATIONS; FINANCIAL ABILITY:
In order to obtain and maintain authorization for any commercial aviation
operation under section
7-4-1 of this chapter, such person, partnership, corporation, trust,
association or other legal entity shall provide evidence of the following
requirements:
   A.   Character; Financial Ability; Equipment Ownership: All such persons
shall be of good moral character, furnish satisfactory evidence of financial
ability and must own adequate and proper equipment to carry on the endeavor
profitably, efficiently and safely.
   B.   Equipment Investment: All such persons shall furnish satisfactory
evidence of minimum investment in equipment for the following services:
 
Flight training   )
Aircraft rental   )     $20,000.00
Aircraft sales   )
Air taxi service    )
Parts and equipment       5,000.00
Crop dusting and spraying 10,000.00
 
In the case of flight training, equipment investment will be considered if such
person owns a flight simulator. (Ord. 929, 1-3-1977)
7-4-3: MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Hours And Days: Such person shall provide full time management a
minimum of eight (8) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
   B.   Evidence Of Experience: Such management shall furnish evidence of five
(5) years' experience in the field of their endeavor.
   C.   Qualifications Of Employees: Such person may employ full or part time
employees or independent contractors, provided they are of good moral character
and properly trained and licensed for their assigned duties.
   D.   Air Taxi Privileges: Such person contracting for air taxi privileges
shall provide:
      1.   FAA ATCO certificate.
      2.   State of Illinois charter air carrier certificate.
   E.   Aircraft Maintenance Service: Such person contracting for aircraft
maintenance service (power plants, aircraft, avionics, etc.) shall provide:
      1.   FAA designed aircraft maintenance inspector.
      2.   A minimum of one certified mechanic or technician properly schooled,
trained and competent for his assigned duties.
      3.   Minimum investment of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) in
machinery, equipment, tools and parts.
   F.   Fuel Dispensation: Such person contracting for dispensation of fuel and
consumables shall provide:
      1.   Equipment approved by the state fire marshal.
      2.   A minimum of two (2) employees schooled, trained and competent for
his assigned duties.
      3.   Personnel for the dispensing of fuel during the hours beginning at
dawn and ending at dusk.
      4.   Equipment to dispense eighty (80) octane and one hundred (100)
octane aviation fuels. (Ord. 929, 1-3-1977)
7-4-4: REQUIREMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Payment Of Rents And Fees: All rents and fees shall be paid promptly.
   B.   Liability Insurance:
      1.   Such person must indemnify and save harmless the city, its agents
and employees against all loss to persons and/or property resulting from the
operations of such person from the activities permitted in this chapter. Such
person shall also carry at all times insurance in the following minimum
amounts:
 
Airport liability        $100,000.00 per person
                         300,000.00 per occurrence
Workers' compensation    Full coverage on all part or full time
                         employees employed by such person
Product liability        100,000.00 - $300,000.00
Liability - contractual  100,000.00 - 300,000.00
Hangar keeper liability  50,000.00 - 50,000.00
Passenger seat liability 100,000.00
 
(Ord. 929, 1-3-1977)
      2.   The city shall be named coinsured in all such insurance policies
except workers' compensation insurance. Such person shall furnish the city
certificates of such insurance and notify the city at least thirty (30) days
prior to the cancellation or termination of any such insurance coverage. (Ord.
929, 1-3-1977; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Utility Charges: Such person shall promptly pay all utility charges.
   D.   Maintain Interior Of Building: Such person shall maintain the interior
of any building or part of any building leased from the city and occupied by
him, except replacement of heating and air conditioning.
   E.   Sublet Or Sublease: Such person shall not sublet or sublease any such
lease or assign any such contract without first obtaining written consent from
the city.
   F.   Maintain Records: Such person shall maintain adequate accounting,
employee and flight records and any other data requested, which shall be open
for inspection by the city at all times. Such person shall furnish the city
with an annual balance sheet and profit and loss statement prepared by a
certified public accountant.
   G.   Right Of Entry: The city reserves the right, at any time, to enter in
or upon any premises leased pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   H.   Noncompliance Grounds For Termination Of Contract: Failure on the part
of any such person to comply fully with the terms of this chapter shall
constitute grounds for cancellation and termination of any contract negotiated
pursuant to this chapter; provided, that prior thereto, the city shall give at
least sixty (60) days' prior written notice of such termination.
   I.   Insolvency Or Bankruptcy: The insolvency or bankruptcy of any such
person shall automatically terminate any contract between such person and the
city, without notice.
   J.   Restriction On Additional Business Operation: No such person shall
engage in the operation of any similar business or engage in any other business
which shall interfere with his operation at the Carmi municipal airport.
   K.   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited: Such person shall not engage in the
sale of alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 929, 1-3-1977)
   L.   Discrimination Prohibited: Such person shall agree not to discriminate
or permit discrimination against any person or group of persons on the grounds
of race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age or disability. (Ord.
929, 1-3-1977; amd. 2006 Code)
7-4-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Violation of this chapter shall be punishable, upon
conviction thereof, by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that any such person violates the provisions
of this chapter the violation of same shall constitute a separate offense and
may be punishable by a fine as herein provided separately for each day of
violation thereof; (Ord. 929, 1-3-1977; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: The violation of this chapter shall also constitute
a nuisance which may be abated and enjoined by an action at law or in equity
for injunction or damages as provided by the statutes and laws of the state;
and
   C.   Suspension Of Airport Privileges: A violation of this chapter shall
also constitute grounds for the suspension of all airport privileges of any
such person after notice in writing of such violation to such person by the
mayor. (Ord. 929, 1-3-1977)
7-4-6: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any of the provisions of this chapter or the application thereof to
any person, partnership, corporation, trust, association or other legal entity
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of this chapter, and to this end, the provisions of this chapter
are declared to be severable.
   B.   This chapter shall not be construed to be a full and complete statement
of all provisions made in any contract between the city and any person or in
any way contrary to the laws of the United States or the state of Illinois. The
purpose of this chapter is to set forth minimum requirements which any person
must meet before being allowed to conduct commercial operations on the Carmi
municipal airport. (Ord. 929, 1-3-1977)
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Maintenance Of Crossings
7-5-2: Maintenance Of Culverts
7-5-3: Traffic Control Devices
7-5-4: Clinging To Trains Prohibited
7-5-5: Miscellaneous Restrictions And Requirements
7-5-1: MAINTENANCE OF CROSSINGS:
   A.   Railroad Responsibility: At all the railroad crossings with highways or
streets within the limits of the city, the railroad corporation whose tracks
cross any such highways or streets shall construct and maintain such crossings
and the approaches thereto within and upon their respective rights of way, so
that at all times they shall be safe, as to personal property.
   B.   Notify Railroad Company To Repair: Whenever any railroad corporation
shall neglect to construct and maintain any of the crossings and approaches as
provided in subsection A of this section, it shall be the duty of the
appropriate city official to notify in writing the nearest agent of such
railroad corporation of the condition of said crossing and approaches, and
direct the same to be constructed, altered or repaired in such manner as he may
deem necessary for the safety and convenience of persons and property.
   C.   Maintenance By City: If such railroad corporation shall neglect or
refuse, after being notified by the appropriate city official, to construct and
maintain any of the crossings or approaches as provided in subsection A of this
section within thirty (30) days after such notice, then it shall be the duty of
the appropriate city official to forthwith cause such construction, alteration
or repair to be made.
   D.   Liability For Maintenance: Such railroad corporation shall be
responsible for all necessary expenses incurred in making such construction,
alteration and repairs and in addition thereto shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for neglect to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 21, 11-10-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
7-5-2: MAINTENANCE OF CULVERTS:
It shall be the duty of the railroad corporation whose railroad tracks pass
through the city to construct, maintain and keep in repair ditches, culverts or
sewers sufficient to properly drain all pools, ponds or other places where the
track of said railroad corporation may obstruct the natural or artificial
drainage of the streets, alleys or other lands or lots within the limits of the
city, and when they fail to do so, after thirty (30) days' notice in writing,
as provided in subsection 7-5-1B of this chapter in case of their neglect to
construct and repair crossings, it shall be the duty of the appropriate city
official to construct such sewers, ditches or culverts, and such railroad
corporation shall be responsible for all necessary expense incurred in making
such construction and be liable to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for failure to comply with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 21, 11-10-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
7-5-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
It shall be the duty of any railroad company or railroad corporation running or
operating trains through the city, within sixty (60) days after the publication
and taking effect of this section to place and maintain traffic control devices
at all railroad crossings within the city. Any railroad company or railroad
corporation violating this section, shall be liable to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every day such railroad company or railroad
corporation is in violation. (Ord. 190, 3-7-1910; amd. 2006 Code)
7-5-4: CLINGING TO TRAINS PROHIBITED:
No person shall climb upon, cling to or in any way attach himself to any
locomotive engine or car, either stationary or in motion, upon any part of any
railroad within the limits of the city unless in doing so he shall be acting in
compliance with law or by permission under the lawful rules or regulations of
those owning and managing the railroad. Any person violating this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 21, 11-10-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
7-5-5: MISCELLANEOUS RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Blocking Public Ways: No railroad corporation conductor, engineer,
station agent or other person having charge of any train, engine, car, tender
or caboose shall permit the same to stand upon or across any traveled street in
the city longer than five (5) minutes at any one time and, after opening such
street or removing the cars therefrom, shall not again obstruct the same by
running or placing any such train, engine, car, tender or caboose thereon until
all persons and vehicles waiting at such street shall have a reasonable time to
cross said railroad track.
   B.   Sounding Signal Device: No engineer or other person shall start any
train or engine within the city limits without first ringing the bell or
sounding the whistle of his engine a reasonable time before starting the same.
   C.   Penalty: Every railroad corporation engineer, conductor, agent or other
person violating the provisions of subsection A or B of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 21, 11-10-1899; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC UTILITY MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Customer Utility Deposits
8-1-2: Service Calls; Charges
8-1-3: Utility Bill Payments; Delinquencies; Penalties
8-1-1: CUSTOMER UTILITY DEPOSITS:
   A.   Utility Deposits for Service. The City of Carmi, Illinois and Carmi
Light and Water, is authorized to make customer utility deposit charges as
follows:
      1.   Customer utility deposit for initial residential combined electric
and water services shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      2..   Customer utility deposit for initial residential water only service
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Customer utility deposit for initial commercial combined electric
and water service shall be four hundred dollars ($400.00). Customers that
qualify for an E3 or E4 electric rate shall pay a deposit of not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) as determined by Carmi Light and Water.
      4.   Customer utility deposit for initial commercial water only service
shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) as determined by Carmi Light and Water.
   B.   Return of Deposits. Customers who have made the above-mentioned
deposits, or who have made deposits required under previous ordinances, shall
be refunded the deposit actually made by them; provided that such customer has
been current in paying utility changes for a term of 1 year prior to the time
such refund is made. Current payment shall mean payments made in accordance
with statements made and mailed to such customer. Failure of the US Postal
Service to deliver statements does not release the customer from charges. (Ord.
1634, 9-17-2024)
8-1-2: SERVICE CALLS; CHARGES:
   A.   Service Calls. The City of Carmi and Carmi Light and Water shall impose
a service change upon Carmi Light and Water Electric Customers as follows for
calls outside of 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. on normal working days:
      1.   For each service call concerning electrical problems, defects or
malfunctions from the weatherhead into the residence or building to which the
service call is made;
      2.   For each service call concerning water problems, defects or
malfunction from the water meter into the residence or disconnection or
reconnection of service,
      3.   For each service call concerning sewer problems, defects or
malfunctions from the City of Carmi’s main sewer line servicing the property to
which the service call is made over and across the property to which the
service call is made; cu reconnection or disconnection of service; and
      4.   All other service calls wherein the problem, defect or malfunction
is not caused by or the fault of the City of Carmi or Carmi Light and Water.
   B.   Charges for Service Calls.
      1.   For each service call as defined in division A. of this section,
there shall be a charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first hour and
one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) for each additional hour. The minimum
charge for all calls defined in division A. of this section shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Calls on City observed holidays shall incur an additional fifty
dollar ($50.00) fee.
   C.   Billing of Charges for Service Calls. Charges as herein established
shall be billed and mailed by the last business day of each month by Carmi
Light and Water. This bill will be separate of the normal utility bill. Service
charges shall be due by the 15th of each month. The failure of the US Postal
Service to deliver a bill does not release the resident of the charges. (Ord.
1646, 11-19-2024)
8-1-3: UTILITY BILL PAYMENTS; DELINQUENCIES; PENALTIES:
   A.   Due Date.
      1.   The City of Carmi and Carmi Light and Water shall mail customer
bills for electricity, water, sewage and waste collection no later than 3:00
p.m. on the last business day of each month. Said bills shall be due and
payable on or before the 15th day of the following month.
      2.   If the 15th falls on a weekend or holiday, bills are due to the next
business day.
      3.   Failure of the US Postal Service to deliver a bill does not release
the customer from charges.
   B.   Penalty for Late Payment.
      1.   A penalty of 10% of the total bill shall be added to such bills not
paid by the 15th day of the month in which bills are due.
      2.   Failure of the US Postal Service to deliver a bill does not release
the customer from a late penalty.
   C.   Disconnection of Service.
      1.   If any bill is not completely paid by the last Wednesday of the
month in which bills are due, the bill shall be considered delinquent and all
services for that customer shall be disconnected and discontinued. Reconnection
and continuation of services disconnected and discontinued for delinquent
payment as herein provided shall only be upon payment in full of all charges
together with taxes and ah delinquent charges plus a reconnection and
continuation service charge of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for reconnection
and continuation during regular working hours (Monday - Friday, 7:00 a.m. - 3:
00 p.m.). Reconnection and continuation during hours outside of the regular
working hours shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Failure of the US Postal Service to deliver a bill does not release
the customer from disconnection of service.
   D.   The City of Carmi and Carmi Light and Water reserve the right to
utilize any collection agency to seek the recovery of past due charges for
electricity, water, sewage and waste collection and to collect said debt using
any and all debt collection remedies available under law. (Ord. 1635, 9-17-
2025)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRIC SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Application For Service
8-2-2: Inspection Of Premises
8-2-3: Service Voltage
8-2-4: Types Of Customer Service Taps
8-2-5: Service Tap Fees
8-2-6: Temporary Service Tap Charge
8-2-7: Service Rates And Charges
8-2-8: Metering Rules And Regulations
8-2-9: Use Of Service
8-2-10: Increase In Customer's Load
8-2-11: Resale Of Service
8-2-12: Responsibility For Continuity And Quality Of Service
8-2-13: Motors And Apparatus
8-2-14: Rented Dusk To Dawn Lights
8-2-15: Tampering With Meter
8-2-16: Customer Generation
8-2-17: Cogeneration Facilities
8-2-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Written Application: Any person desiring to purchase electrical energy
from the city electric system shall make written application for electric
service to the city office on a printed form provided for this purpose and to
be signed by the customer.
   B.   Compliance With Electrical Code: All such applications shall contain
the printed agreement that the applicant will conform to and abide by the
latest edition of the national electrical code 1  and all of the rules,
regulations and provisions of the ordinances of the city pertaining to the use
of and regulation of electrical energy to customers, as well as the standards
of installation and maintenance of electrical wiring, apparatus, appliances and
fixtures in the premises served, in use at the time of application and as
altered or added after completing the said application for electric service.
(Ord. 1066, 9-19-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-1 of this code.
8-2-2: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   A.   Option To Inspect: The application for new service shall contain a
description of the premises to be served. The city office or its representative
shall have the option of making an inspection of electric wiring of the
premises before electrical energy is supplied to determine the efficiency and
condition of the wiring.
   B.   Nonliability Of City For Safety Of Wiring: By inspecting a premises,
and approving it for electric service, the city takes no responsibility in
guaranteeing the safety or adequacy of the wiring. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-1983)
8-2-3: SERVICE VOLTAGE:
   A.   Standard Service: The standard form of electric service provided by the
city, one service tap at 120/240 volts single- phase at one hundred (100)
amperes, two hundred (200) amperes, or four hundred (400) amperes, via overhead
electric lines unless the area is designated for underground service.
All other voltages, amperes, and nature of supply shall be considered
nonstandard service with the availability and charge to be determined by the
electric department.
   B.   Nonstandard Service:
      1.   Nonstandard includes, but is not limited to:
120/208 volts 3-phase 4-wire
240 volts 3-phase
120/240 volts 3-phase 4-wire
277/480 volts 3-phase 4-wire
      2.   A nonstandard service voltage, service entrance size, or other
nonstandard service condition may be requested. Any such nonstandard service
conditions must be requested by the owner in writing and such request must
include accurate information concerning the nonstandard service being requested
and include the kilowatt demand and annual kilowatt hour usage, and location of
loads to be served. If it is practical, in the opinion of the electric
department, the nonstandard service may be provided; however, the owner shall
bear the additional expense of special facilities installed by the city. The
owner shall also bear the risk of extended loss of service in the event of a
transformer failure if the nonstandard service provided includes a nonstandard
voltage or voltage transformation. (Ord. 1427, 8-17-2010)
8-2-4: TYPES OF CUSTOMER SERVICE TAPS:
   A.   Service Line - Overhead Service: Overhead service shall be delivered to
the individual customer facility by means of overhead cables from the existing
overhead electric system to a designated point on the customer's facility of
sufficient height to comply with applicable code clearances.
The owner or owner's contractor shall provide the service head, riser conduit,
and all other materials and installations required to make a complete
installation, as described on standard drawings provided by the city's electric
department. Approved meter sockets shall be furnished and installed by the
owner or the owner's contractor, and shall be located at a height of five feet
(5') above final grade with all meters located outside of any building or
restricted area.
   B.   Service Line - Underground Service: Underground service is electrical
service delivered to a customer's facility by means of a buried cable from
electrical facilities owned by the city. Where underground service is provided
by the city, the owner or owner's contractor shall provide the necessary
equipment to provide a complete installation as indicated on standard drawings
provided by the city's electric department.
Except for areas designated as requiring underground service (where possible)
underground service is a nonstandard service; however, where underground
service is available from the city's existing underground facilities and where,
in the opinion of the electric department providing underground service is a
practical method to provide service; or where underground service can be
supplied from the city's existing overhead facilities and where, in the opinion
of the electric department underground service is a practical method to provide
service, the charge for providing service shall be as indicated in section
8-2-5 of this chapter.
   C.   New Service Development:
      1.   This subsection shall apply to those situations where a request for
electric service will require an extension and/or modification to the primary
distribution system, and the delivery point is within the corporate limits.
This subsection applies to industrial, commercial, residential subdivisions,
and multi- family housing development.
      2.   When making application for an extension and/or modification of the
primary distribution system to serve a proposed development, the applicant
shall furnish the electric department with sufficiently complete development
plans and electric service requirements and usage data to enable determination
of the specific extension and/or modification to the primary distribution
system required to serve the proposed project.
      3.   The electric department shall determine the cost to the city to
install the necessary improvements. Charges shall include the expense to modify
existing facilities, line extension, and transformation cost.
      4.   If in the opinion of the electric department and the electric
committee of the city council concur that a portion of the line extension to
the proposed site may in the future enable the electric system to serve others
in a reasonable time that portion of the improvement may be charged at a
reduced rate or not included in the calculation as determined by the electric
committee.
      5.   For subdivisions in addition to the charge to provide service the
developer shall also pay the current connection/tap fee for each lot. The
connection fee for each lot placed in service within eleven (11) years after
the start of the project shall be refunded to the developer without interest
following the owner's payment of the connection fee.
The developer will not be entitled to return of the connection fee after eleven
(11) years.
      6.   The applicant/customer will be notified of the estimated new service
development charge and the available terms of payment. (Generally terms will be
25 percent prior to start of the project and the balance at completion.)
      7.   The applicant/customer must agree, in advance of construction to pay
the new service development charge in accordance with the available terms of
payment.
      8.   Payment of the new service development charge shall be made as
follows unless different terms are agreed to:
         a.   Twenty five percent (25%) of the estimated new service
development charge prior to construction;
         b.   The balance of the customer charge upon completion of the
construction. (Ord. 1427, 8-17-2010)
8-2-5: SERVICE TAP FEES:
The charge for providing service shall be as indicated below and shall be
revised as determined necessary by the electric department. Contact the city
clerk for current rates.
   A.   Residential service: Applies to single-phase service with extension of
primary limited to one hundred feet (100') and length of the secondary not to
exceed seventy five feet (75'). Service voltage 120/240 volts single-phase.
Overhead:                               
Existing 60 ampere service changed to  No charge
100 amperes
Existing 100 ampere service changed to $250.00 plus$6.00 per foot in excess of
200 amperes                            75 feet for secondary extension
New 100 ampere service                 $250.00 plus$6.00 per foot in excess of
                                       75 feet
New 200 amperes service                $500.00 plus$6.00 per foot in excess of
                                       75 feet
400 amperes                            $1,000.00 plus$8.50 per foot in excess
                                       of 75 feet
Above 400 amperes                      To be determined based on 100% of actual
                                       cost to Carmi Light and Water
Underground:
Up to 200 amperes                      $800.00 plus$8.50 per foot in excess of
                                       75 feet
400 amperes                            $1,600.00 plus$11.00 per foot in excess
                                       of 75 feet
Above 400 amperes                      To be determined based on 100% of actual
                                       cost to Carmi Light and Water
 
 
                                      To be determined
3-phase                               Tap charge of $500.00 for overhead
                                      service/$800.00 for underground (where
                                      possible) plus connection charge
                                      The customer shall pay 100% of the
Connection charge/overhead service    estimated cost to provide service. This
                                      shall include the required materials.
                                      In addition to the tap fee the customer
Connection charge/underground service shall pay 100% of the estimated cost to
                                      provide service. This shall include the
                                      required materials.
                                      A 10% surcharge shall apply to all fees
                                      and charges when service provided is
                                      outside the corporate limits providing no
                                      extension of primary facilities required.
Surcharge outside corporate limits    If it is necessary to extend primary
                                      facilities the city of Carmi reserves the
                                      right to refuse service and in addition
                                      to the tap fee will charge 100% of the
                                      cost to provide service
 
   B.   Commercial service: Applies to single-phase service with extension of
primary limited to one hundred feet (100') and length of the secondary not to
exceed seventy five feet (75'). Service voltage 120/240 volts single-phase.
 
Overhead:            
 Up to 200 amperes $600.00 plus $5.00 per foot in excess of 75 feet
 400 amperes       $1,200.00 plus $7.50 per foot in excess of 75 feet
 Above 400 amperes To be determined
Underground:
 Up to 200 amperes $1,000.00 plus $7.50 per foot in excess of 75 feet
 400 amperes       $1,200.00 plus $10.00 per foot in excess of 75 feet
 
 
 Above 400 amperes                    To be determined
                                      To be determined
3-phase                               Tap charge of $750.00 plus connection
                                      charge
                                      The customer shall pay 50% of the
                                      estimated cost to provide service. This
Connection charge/overhead service    shall include transformation, wire,
                                      conduit, metering, and any other material
                                      required
                                      In addition to the tap fee the customer
                                      shall pay 60% of the estimated cost to
Connection charge/underground service provide service. This shall include
                                      transformation, wire, conduit, metering,
                                      and any other material required
                                      A 10% surcharge shall apply to all fees
                                      and charges when service provided is
                                      outside the corporate limits providing no
                                      extension of primary facilities required.
Surcharge outside corporate limits    If it is necessary to extend primary
                                      facilities the City of Carmi reserves the
                                      right to refuse service and in addition
                                      to the tap fee will charge 50% of the
                                      cost to provide service
 
   C.   Industrial/apartment complex: To be determined based on 100% of actual
cost to Carmi Light and Water.
   D.   Subdivision: To be determined based on 100% of actual cost to Carmi
Light and Water plus the connection charge per lot ($800.00/200 ampere).
   E.   Any person, firm or corporation requesting nonstandard service shall
pay, prior to the time electric service is installed, a sum equal to fifty
percent (50%) of the charge to the customer for the requested facilities. The
remaining fifty percent (50%) of cost to be paid at completion of service
installation and connection. The charge to the customer shall be determined by
the Electric Department. (Ord. 1427, 8-17-2010; amd. Ord. 1427, 12-10-2012,
eff. 12-10-2012; Ord. 1620, 2-20-2024)
8-2-6: TEMPORARY SERVICE TAP CHARGE:
Charges for temporary service connection shall be the same as permanent service
and shall be as indicated in section
8-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 1427, 8-17-2010)
8-2-7: SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Rates Established: The following classifications of electric service at
the rates and on the qualifications, conditions, and terms as respectively set
forth be and hereby are established for the sale of electric energy, by the
Municipal Electric Utility of the City of Carmi, Illinois, to customers located
within the corporate limits of the City of Carmi or adjacent to the
distribution lines of the said Carmi Municipal Electric Utility.
      1.   Rate E1: Commercial (including all retail establishments and all
small power users):
 
kWh Per Month   Cents Per kWh
First 150       $14.37
Next 350        13.45
Next 500        12.53
Next 10,000     11.61
Next 14,000     11.16
All over 25,000 11.02
 
Minimum bill: Ten dollars ($10.00) per month.
For users receiving service outside of City limits: Ten percent (10%) to be
added to the above rate schedule.
      2.   Rate E1U: Unbundled commercial (E1 customers that voluntarily elect
to use smart metering):
         a.   Demand charge: For each kW of demand each month seventeen dollars
fifty seven cents ($17.57) per kW. Billing demand shall be the highest rate of
usage (kWh) that occurs during the estimated hour of system peak.
         b.   Plus energy charge: All kWh per month of 7.88 cents per kWh.
         c.   Minimum bill: Ten dollars ($10.00) per month.
         d.   Initial setup charge: One hundred dollar ($100.00) one-time fee
due on the first month of service.
         e.   For user receiving service outside of City limits: Ten percent
(10%) to be added to the above rate schedule.
      3.   Rate E2: Residential - single phase service - combined (including
space heating):
 
kWh Per Month Cents Per kWh
First 25      $15.19
Next 200      12.16
Next 575      11.15
All over 800  10.54
 
Minimum bill: Five dollars ($5.00) per month.
3 phase residential service to be billed per Rate E1.
For users receiving service outside of City limits: Ten percent (10%) to be
added to the above rate schedule.
      4.   Rate E2U: Unbundled residential (E2 customers that voluntarily elect
to use smart metering):
         a.   Demand charge: For each kW of demand each month seventeen dollars
thirty cents ($17.30) per kW. Billing demand shall be the highest rate of usage
(kWh) that occurs during the estimated hour of system peak.
         b.   Plus energy charge: All kWh per month of 7.75 cents per kWh.
         c.   Minimum bill: Five dollars ($5.00) per month.
         d.   Initial setup charge: One hundred dollar ($100.00) one-time fee
due on the first month of service.
         e.   For user receiving service outside of City limits: Ten percent
(10%) to be added to the above rate schedule. (Ord. 1526, 6-6-2017, eff. 6-6-
2017)
      5.   Rate E3: Large power (including all retail establishments and all
power users) using 3-phase service with usage over fifty thousand (50,000)
kilowatt hours per month:
         a.   Demand charge: For each kilowatt of demand each month, seven
dollars ($7.00) per kilowatt. Demand being the highest rate of usage during any
fifteen (15) minute interval during the billing period; plus
         b.   Energy charge: All kilowatt hours per month, 9.13 cents per
kilowatt hour.
Minimum bill: Demand of seventy (70) kilowatts plus fifty thousand (50,000)
kilowatt hours and all other related charges.
For users receiving service outside of City limits: Ten percent (10%) to be
added to the above rate of charges. (Ord. 1441, 8-8-2011, eff. retroactive to
8-1-2011; amd. Ord. 1526, 6-6-2017, eff. 6-6-2017)
         c.   As an alternate, for those large power customers who make
application for "time of use" measurement of billing demand, and who agree to a
minimum twelve (12) months' usage of this "time of use" demand consideration,
and whose application is accepted by the City, then the following terms and
conditions and "time of use" demand measurement shall apply:
            (1)   The "time of use" demands, in no case, will be available
until suitable metering has been obtained and installed. The customer making
application for "time of use" demand metering shall pay a onetime metering
charge of six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00).
            (2)   Time of use:
               (A)   Demand Charge: The demand charge will be the larger of:
                  (i)   Seven dollars ($7.00) per kilowatt of the maximum
kilowatt demand incurred between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) P.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any weekday (Monday through Friday, exclusive of any
holiday).
                  (ii)   Four dollars ($4.00) per kilowatt of the maximum
kilowatt demand incurred between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to two
o'clock (2:00) P.M. on any weekday (Monday through Friday, exclusive of any
holiday).
                  (iii)   One dollar seventy five cents ($1.75) per kilowatt of
the maximum kilowatt demand incurred during any hours not included in
subsection A5c(2)(A)(i) or A5c(2)(A)(ii) of this section.
               (B)   Energy Charge:
                  (i)   For all energy used per month at the rate for large
power customers as hereinabove stated.
                  (ii)   The billing demand shall be the greatest rate of use
of electrical energy during any fifteen (15) consecutive minutes occurring at
any time during the periods described above during each monthly billing period,
but shall not be less than ten (10) kilowatts.
                  (iii)   Holidays shall be the State recognized legal
holidays, and shall include: New Year's Day, Lincoln's Birthday, Memorial Day,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. (Ord. 1139, 6-
5-1989, eff. 6-26-1989; amd. Ord. 1526, 6-6-2017, eff. 6-6-2017)
      6.   Rate E4: Rate E4 is available to all customers that qualify for this
rate, and make application for the rate.
This rate is best suited for customers with a high load factor/constant usage
of energy and a demand of not less than two hundred fifty (250) kW.
Customers selecting this rate may not change from this rate during a billing
cycle and may only be placed on this rate at the beginning of a billing cycle.
Customers requiring service prior to the start of a billing cycle may receive
service using Rate E1, E1U, or E3 until the next billing cycle except as
provided below.
With consent of the Light and Water Office and at the request of the customer,
the customer can be placed on Rate E4 between billing cycles, however for such
customers the demand charge will not be prorated unless it can be determined
that the customer's demand had no effect on the system demand for the billing
cycle for purchased energy.
         a.   Requirements: Rate E4 is available to any customer meeting the
following requirements:
            (1)   Consumption in excess of fifty thousand (50,000) kWh per
month.
            (2)   Minimum monthly demand of two hundred fifty (250) kW.
         b.   Charges: Customers receiving service on Rate E4 will be billed
monthly according to the following schedule:
            (1)   Customer Charge: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
            (2)   Demand Charge: Sixteen dollars twenty five cents ($16.25) per
kW (minimum demand of 250 kW) and billed in whole kW increments, with rounding
to the next higher whole number.
            (3)   Energy Charge: Actual cost of energy plus $0.005 per kWh
(minimum billing of 50,000 kWh).
(If at the time the bill is rendered the actual cost of energy is not available
the bill will be rendered based upon an energy cost of $0.025 plus $0.005 per
kWh with an adjustment the following month or the next billing cycle after the
information becomes available.)
            (4)   Reactive Charge: A reactive charge shall apply and shall be
thirty cents ($0.30) per kVA reactive for the peak reactive demand occurring
during the billing period.
            (5)   Taxes: Plus all taxes.
            (6)   Billing Demand: Shall be the average of the four (4)
consecutive 15-minute intervals that occur during the estimated hour of the
system peak during the billing period.
            (7)   Reactive Demand: Shall be the 15-minute peak rate of use of
reactive energy during the billing period.
         c.   Cost Adjustment:
            (1)   Demand Cost Adjustment:
               (A)   The demand cost adjustment shall be added to each
customer's bill in an amount equal to the billing demand (kilowatts) multiplied
by the demand cost adjustment rate ($/kW) for the given billing period.
               (B)   The demand cost adjustment rate is calculated each billing
period and is the difference between the class's unbundled demand cost-of-
service rate ($/kW, as defined below) and the demand charge ($16.25/kW, as
defined above).
               (C)   The class's unbundled demand cost-of-service rate is equal
to the class's total demand service cost for a rolling 12-month period divided
by the class's total demand billed for a rolling 12-month period.
            (2)   Energy Cost Adjustment:
               (A)   The energy cost adjustment shall be added to each
customer's bill in an amount equal to the total kilowatt-hours billed
multiplied by the energy cost adjustment rate ($/kWh) for the given billing
period.
               (B)   The energy cost adjustment rate is calculated each billing
period and is the difference between the class's unbundled energy cost-of-
service rate ($/kWh, as defined below) and the class's energy charge ($/kWh, as
defined above).
               (C)   The class's unbundled energy cost-of-service rate is equal
to the class's total energy service cost for a rolling 12-month period divided
by the class's total energy usage for a rolling 12-month period.
         d.   Billing Cycle: The billing cycle will follow as close as
practical the billing cycle of the supplier of the wholesale energy. As needed
to conform to billing of all customers the billing period may be adjusted and
such adjustments may require two (2) different energy rates during the billing
period if the period crosses between two (2) billing periods from the wholesale
supplier.
         e.   Discounts: If the City of Carmi receives any special rate,
credit, or discount from the supplier of the wholesale energy that is directly
associated with a customer on Rate E4, the customer will receive ninety percent
(90%) of the savings after deducting one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
the cost to meet any requirement to comply with the special rate, credit, or
discount.
   B.   Cost Adjustments For El, E1U, E2, E2U, And E3 Rates:
      1.   Class Cost Adjustment For Rate El And Rate E2:
         a.   The class cost adjustment shall be added to each customer's bill
in an amount equal to the total kilowatt-hours billed multiplied by the class
cost adjustment rate ($/kWh) for the given billing period.
         b.   The class cost adjustment rate is calculated each billing period
and is the difference between the class bundled cost-of- service rate ($/kWh)
and the effective billed class rate ($/kWh), as defined below.
         c.   The class bundle cost-of-service rate is equal to the class's
total cost of service for a rolling 12-month period divided by the class's
total usage for a rolling 12-month period.
         d.   The effective billed class rate is equal to the class's total
revenue for a rolling 12-month period divided by the class's total usage for a
rolling 12-month period.
         e.   The class cost adjustment rate shall be calculated for both the
El and E2 Rate classes.
      2.   Class Cost Adjustment For Rates E1U, E2U, And E3:
         a.   Demand Cost Adjustment:
            (1)   The demand cost adjustment shall be added to each customer's
bill in an amount equal to the peak monthly demand (kilowatts) multiplied by
the demand cost adjustment rate ($/kW) for the given billing period.
            (2)   The demand cost adjustment rate is calculated each billing
period and is the difference between the class's unbundled demand cost-of-
service rate ($/kW, as defined below) and the demand charge ($7.00/kW, as
defined above).
            (3)   The class's unbundled demand cost-of-service rate is equal to
the class's total demand service cost for a rolling 12-month period divided by
the class's total demand billed for a rolling 12-month period.
         b.   Energy Cost Adjustment:
            (1)   The energy cost adjustment shall be added to each customer's
bill in an amount equal to the total kilowatt-hours billed multiplied by the
energy cost adjustment rate ($/kWh) for the given billing period.
            (2)   The energy cost adjustment rate is calculated each billing
period and is the difference between the class's unbundled energy cost-of-
service rate ($/kWh, as defined below) and the class's energy charge ($0.0913/
kWh, as defined above).
            (3)   The class's unbundled energy cost-of-service rate is equal to
the class's total energy service cost for a rolling 12-month period divided by
the class's total energy usage for a rolling 12-month period.
   C.   State Tax: All billing is subject to taxes of the State of Illinois.
At the time the ordinance codified herein was prepared the State of Illinois
excise is the lessor of five percent (5%) of the customer's bill or 0.32 cent
per kWh.
   D.   Municipal Utility Tax: All billing for service provided within the
corporate limits is subject to the Municipal Utility Tax as set forth in
section
3-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 1526, 6-6-2017, eff. 6-6-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 3-1-4B3 of this Code for electric utility tax amounts.
8-2-8: METERING RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following metering rules and regulations shall be adhered to:
   A.   Meters Required:
      1.   All locations of customer service by the City electric system shall
be metered.
      2.   Meters shall be provided and installed by the City Electrical
Department.
      3.   All apartments or multiconstructed residential units must be
provided with individual meters.
   B.   Locations: All meters shall be mounted on an exterior wall in an easily
accessible location, as designated by the City office or their appointed
representative.
   C.   Testing: Any City electric meter shall be taken out of service and
tested upon complaint of the customer upon payment of a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00). If upon test the meter is not within three percent (3%) of
being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and the twenty five dollar
($25.00) fee returned to the customer. If the meter is within three percent
(3%) of being correct, the fee will not be refunded.
   D.   Meter Stopped Or Registering Inaccurately: Customer billing will be
based on estimated usage when meters are found stopped or registering
improperly. Such estimates will be based on previous years' billing amended to
the current conditions when such information is available. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-
1983)
8-2-9: USE OF SERVICE:
The following rules of service shall apply:
   A.   Safety Of Wiring And Equipment:
      1.   The City office may deny service to a customer when it is his
opinion that the wiring and equipment are unsafe or have objectionable
characteristics. However, the City will cooperate with the customer in order to
determine the necessary remedial action for such characteristics.
      2.   All of the customer's lighting equipment, motor driven equipment,
apparatus, and appliances shall have such characteristics or be equipped with
corrective devices so as to enable the City to maintain a satisfactory standard
of electric services. In the case of high motor starting current, violently
fluctuating or intermittent loads, etc., the City reserves and shall have the
right to require the customer to install, at the customer's expense,
transformers and apparatus to correct the objectionable conditions. (These
cases may include welders, hoists, elevator motors, pumps, and similar
apparatus.)
   B.   Substations Or Transformers: When a separate or oversized substation or
transformer must be installed specifically to eliminate the effect of the
objectionable load characteristic, and the distribution system would otherwise
have the capacity and equipment required to supply a normal load service of the
same size, or where separate transformers and/or services are installed at
customer's request, to supply such apparatus which may be abnormally sensitive
to voltage, the cost of such substation or transformer is considered a
corrective device under subsection A of this section, and shall be provided at
the customer's expense.
   C.   Power Factor: The City utilities retain rates that are applicable to
industrial and commercial services which are based on all such customers
maintaining a power factor of not less than eighty five percent (85%) lagging.
In the event a customer's power factor is less than eighty five percent (85%)
during periods of normal operation, the city reserves the right to require
customer to install at his own expense such corrective equipment as may be
required to increase customer's power factor to not less than eighty five
percent (85%).
   D.   Correction Of Objectionable Conditions: When a customer fails to
install the necessary facilities on his premises to correct the objectionable
conditions of his load or fails to prevent such objectionable conditions from
interfering with the city's supply of satisfactory service to other customers,
the city shall have the right to deny service to such customer until the
objectionable conditions shall have been corrected in a manner satisfactory to
the city.
   E.   Customer Liable For Cost Of Correction By City: Where corrective
equipment is installed by the city on its distribution system to correct any
objectionable conditions, the customer whose service caused the objectionable
conditions will be required to pay the city, without refund, the installed cost
of such corrective equipment, which said corrective equipment shall remain the
property of the city. In lieu of such payment, and subject to approval by the
city, a customer may elect to pay a monthly charge equal to one and twenty five
hundredths percent (1.25%) of the installed cost of such corrective equipment
installed by the city. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-1983)
8-2-10: INCREASE IN CUSTOMER'S LOAD:
   A.   Specify Amount Of Load: When a customer makes an application for
service, he shall specify the amount of electrical load to be connected to the
city electric system so that the city may determine the adequate service of
sufficient capacity for the operation of the equipment to be serviced.
   B.   Notice Of Load Increase Required: The customer's connected load should
not be increased beyond the limits hereinafter stated until the customer has
given written notice to the city office and the additional load has been
approved by the city office, unless the load increase totals three (3)
horsepower or less, or electrical additions total twenty (20) amperes or less,
in which case, an electrical load increase will not require notification. (Ord.
1066, 9-19-1983)
   C.   Customer Liable For Damage: If a customer does not give proper notice
of increased electric load, the customer will be liable for any damage to the
electric system equipment resulting from the increased load. Furthermore, any
person who installs additional electrical loads in excess of the loads not
requiring notification without reporting to the office and obtaining approval
of the city office, shall, upon conviction of such failure to notify, be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The city may elect to refuse to furnish electrical energy
to any person or corporation found guilty of failing to report an increased
electric load that requires such notification. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-1983; amd. 2006
Code)
8-2-11: RESALE OF SERVICE:
Electrical energy provided by the city electric system shall not be sold to a
second party or otherwise disposed of by a second party. The energy provided by
the city system shall be for the sole use of its customers. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-
1983)
8-2-12: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTINUITY AND QUALITY OF SERVICE:
Responsibility for continuity and quality of service shall be as follows:
   A.   Nonliability Of City: The city utility endeavors to furnish continuous
and adequate service; however, it cannot guarantee the service as to
continuity, freedom from voltage and frequency variations, or reversal of phase
rotation, and will not be responsible or liable for damages to customer's
apparatus resulting from such failure or imperfection of service. In cases
where such failure or imperfection of service might damage customer's
apparatus, the customer shall install suitable protective equipment.
   B.   Emergencies:
      1.   Emergencies may arise in which it is essential for the city to
immediately take lines or equipment out of service for repairs and to prevent
damage to life or property or to prevent a more serious interruption of
service.
      2.   The city utility reserves the right to take lines or equipment out
of service under such conditions and will attempt to give customers advanced
warning of such interruptions as conditions may permit. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-1983)
   C.   Temporary Suspension Of Service For Maintenance: The city utility
further reserves the right to take lines and equipment temporarily out of
service for short periods for maintenance and changes in construction. Such
outage will be planned at a time convenient for all those involved, if at all
practical and possible. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-1983; amd. 2006 Code)
8-2-13: MOTORS AND APPARATUS:
The following shall apply to motors and apparatus:
   A.   Authority Of Utility: The utility reserves the right to select the type
of service to be supplied and shall be consulted before equipment is purchased
or ordered by a customer regarding the general characteristics of service,
including those services having motors five (5) horsepower and larger or where
the aggregate load of smaller motors is more than seven and one-half (71/2)
horsepower.
   B.   Rules; Exceptions: In general, seven and one-half (71/2) horsepower and
larger motors will be 3-phase, and motors smaller than seven and one-half (71/
2) horsepower will be single-phase. There may be, at the city's sole
discretion, exceptions to this rule:
      1.   In outlying and residential areas where 3-phase energy is not
readily available, larger single-phase motors may be permitted, but only with
the prior approval of the city office.
      2.   Where the customer is already using 3-phase energy, motors smaller
than seven and one-half (71/2) horsepower may be added to the 3-phase service,
upon notification to the city, if elsewhere required.
      3.   Three-phase service is not normally available for residential
customers and is considered nonstandard service.
   C.   Locked Motor Current: Motors and motorized equipment will generally be
approved for use on the city system only if the total locked motor current does
not exceed an acceptable level, as determined by the city office.
   D.   Currents Causing Interference: If starting currents are objectionable
and will cause interference on the city system in the judgement of the city
office, reduced voltage starting or such other methods as the city office
determines feasible will be required to be furnished by the customer. (Ord.
1066, 9-19-1983)
8-2-14: RENTED DUSK TO DAWN LIGHTS:
   A.   Specifications: Private lighting luminaries (dusk to dawn lighting
services) for homes, schools, security, churches, commercial areas, and
industry shall be provided where feasible and in keeping with good electrical
practice, as per the following specifications:
      1.   Lighting Fixtures Installed By City; Monthly Charge:
         a.   A self-contained automatic dusk to dawn ninety (90) watt mercury
vapor lighting fixture shall be furnished and installed, or caused to be
installed, by the city electrical department, such fixture to meet standards
and specifications of the city, on existing wood pole structures for the
customer's use at a monthly energy charge rate of five dollars fifty cents
($5.50) per unit; if city furnishes pole and ninety (90) watt mercury vapor,
six dollars fifty cents ($6.50) per month. Four hundred (400) watt mercury
vapor or two hundred fifty (250) watt sodium lamps shall have a monthly rental
charge of nine dollars ($9.00) per month. The charge of five dollars fifty
cents ($5.50) per month or nine dollars ($9.00) per month, as the case may be,
will be added to the customer's monthly utility bill and shall become an
integral part of said bill.
         b.   The city electrical department will be responsible for making the
installation, furnishing the electricity for the operation of the lamp, and
providing all the necessary maintenance (including the normal replacement of
lamps).
      2.   Additional Facilities; Charges: Should the installation of a
standard lighting unit require the installation by the city electrical
department of additional facilities not required by the city for distribution
purposes other than the private outdoor lighting to be installed, the
electrical department will furnish, install, own and maintain the additional
facilities (including wood poles) which may be necessary to provide such
lighting from nearby distribution lines. The electrical department will make a
net monthly charge of six dollars fifty cents ($6.50) per month.
      3.   Contract Agreement: A two (2) year minimum contract shall be agreed
to and signed by each customer desiring dusk to dawn lighting service,
authorizing fixed monthly charges to be applied to the monthly city utilities
bill. In the event that a customer desires the removal of the unit or
discontinuance of the service, the remainder of the charges to complete a two
(2) year contract shall become due and payable by the customer.
      4.   Type Of Pole: Dusk to dawn lighting shall be installed on wood poles
with a normal ground to lamp height of approximately twenty five feet (25').
Should a customer desire his lighting on steel, aluminum, concrete, decorative
type poles and/or underground cable installation, the city electrical
department may, at its discretion, install or cause the special service to be
installed. The customer shall bear the total cost that is above that of a
normal wood pole installation, and the additional charge shall be payable by
the customer prior to installation.
      5.   Service Interruption Or Obstructions:
         a.   The customer shall have the responsibility to notify the
electrical department of any interruption of service of the dusk to dawn
lighting. The electrical department will restore service only during regularly
scheduled working hours and shall, in any event, be under no obligation to do
so before seventy two (72) hours from the time of notification. In the event
the electrical department is unable to effect repairs not caused by the
customer within this period, the electrical department's only responsibility
will be to abate the charges on a pro rata basis for each day after seventy two
(72) hours in which service is not available.
         b.   The customer shall remove any obstruction to the installation of
the city facilities. Trimming of trees to improve the distribution of light
shall be the customer's responsibility. The customer shall provide any permits
or easements required for the installation or maintenance of the city owned
facilities and permit access to such facilities by the electrical department
vehicles and personnel. (Ord. 1066, 9-19-1983)
   B.   Dusk To Dawn Lighting Service Agreement: A lighting agreement,
including installation drawings, shall be in such form as determined by the
city council, and shall be available in the office of the city clerk. (Ord.
1066, 9-19-1983; amd. 2006 Code)
8-2-15: TAMPERING WITH METER:
   A.   The service of any customer in which an electric meter has been
tampered with, in any attempt to cause an inaccurate metering or restore
service shut off due to non payment, shall be immediately discontinued.
   B.   Such service shall be reconnected after payment of a penalty by the
user to Carmi Light and Water, and may be established at the sole discretion of
the City. The first offence will be a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
The second offence will be a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00). Each
additional offence will be a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord.
1434, 1-18-2011; amd. Ord. 1633, 9-17-2024)
8-2-16: CUSTOMER GENERATION:
No customer shall generate electricity in parallel with the city electric
system. Generation will only be approved upon application to the city, and then
only when such generation is isolated by means of a suitable transfer switch
from the city electric system, and other safety controls are approved by the
city as properly incorporated with any such electric generation. (Ord. 1066, 9-
19-1983)
8-2-17: COGENERATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Application For Service: Applications will be received from those
customers who are within the normal service area of the city electric utility
and adjacent to electrical lines of the city electric utility and who agree to
design, construct, own, operate and maintain in accordance with prudent utility
practice and the standards established by this section, a cogeneration
facility, and desire to sell surplus electrical energy, or desire to purchase
electrical energy as a supplement to that energy, produced by a cogeneration
facility (hereinafter described as a "qualifying facility" or "customer").
   B.   Purchase Of Surplus Energy: The city electric utility shall purchase
the surplus electrical energy of a qualifying facility at electrical rates as
outlined as a part of this section, which are represented to be the costs that
are avoided by the city electric utility by its power otherwise purchased and
generated for the city electric utility.
   C.   Sale Of Surplus Energy: The city electric utility shall sell the
supplemental energy to a qualifying facility as is within the capability of the
city electric utility and at the regular established rates established by the
city electric utility.
   D.   Requirements Of Qualifying Facility: A qualifying facility, before
being connected to the city electric utility, shall meet the following
provisions and requirements:
      1.   Provide an expected service date to the city electric utility.
      2.   Provide a complete description of the proposed generating facility,
including its location, source of fuel, nameplate data of principal components
and drawings and exhibits that describe the size, character and continuity of
service and the location of the generating facility.
      3.   Provide the character of service of the generating facility
including the proposed electrical current, frequency (hertz), voltage, number
of phases, and size of all electrical wire to be used in the generating
facility installation.
      4.   Provide the equipment and facilities to meet the requirements for
metering and protective controls as described in this section.
      5.   Provide certification of compliance with all other legal
requirements of the generating facility installation and the emissions
therefrom.
   E.   Maintenance And Operation Of Facilities: The qualifying facility shall
furnish, install, operate and maintain facilities such as relays, switches,
synchronizing equipment, control and protective devices designated by the city
electric system as suitable for parallel operation with the city system. Such
facilities shall be accessible at all times to authorized city electric utility
personnel.
   F.   Inspections: The city electric utility shall have the right to inspect
the qualifying facility's electric generating facilities, to conduct such
operating tests as are necessary to ascertain that the protective devices
function properly, to review any data collected from such facilities at all
reasonable times, and to independently monitor the aforesaid system.
   G.   Authority To Curtail Service: The city electric utility reserves the
right to curtail services without liability to the qualifying facility for
necessary maintenance, to effectuate repairs on its systems, equipment or
facilities, or for protection of persons or property, or to make such other
arrangements as may be required to enable the city electric utility to restore
service. The city utility shall endeavor to give the qualifying facility such
notice as is reasonably practical in the circumstances.
   H.   Installation And Maintenance Of Equipment: The qualifying facility
shall agree to install and maintain, in a thoroughly safe and efficient manner
and in accordance with good electrical practice and all applicable lawful
regulations, all of its lines, wiring, apparatus, machinery and appliances
connected to the city electric system. If at any time any part of the
qualifying facility's lines, wiring, apparatus, machinery or appliances shall
be in a condition which interferes with the city utility service to its other
customers, the city utility may discontinue service to the qualifying facility
until such interfering parts shall be put back in safe and proper operating
condition, or shall have been replaced or disconnected. Unless emergency or the
risk of an emergency is imminent, the city utility shall give reasonable notice
of its intention to discontinue purchases from or service to the qualifying
facility on account of any such claimed interference and, where practical,
suitable time for repair or replacement of such interfering facility.
Suspension shall not relieve the qualifying facility of its other obligations
hereunder. (Ord. 1016, 4-6-1981)
   I.   Default Protected: Neither the city utility nor the qualifying facility
shall be considered to be in default in respect to any obligation hereunder,
other than the obligation of a party to make payments of amounts due another
party under this section, if failure of performance shall be due to
uncontrollable forces; the term "uncontrollable forces" meaning any cause
beyond the control of the party affected, including, but not limited to,
failure of facilities, flood, earthquake, storm, fire, lightning, epidemic,
war, riot, civil disturbance, sabotage, inability to obtain rights of way,
permits, licenses, and authorizations from any local, state of federal agency
or person for any of the facilities or equipment required to provide service
hereunder, and restraint by court or public authority, which, by exercise of
due foresight, such party could not reasonably have been expected to avoid, and
which, by the exercise of due diligence, it be unable to overcome. A party
shall not, however, be relieved of liability for failure of performance if such
failure is due to removable or remediable causes which it fails to remove or
remedy with reasonable dispatch.
   J.   Meters: The city electric utility shall install, own, maintain and test
the meters and associated equipment (hereinafter called "meters") which in the
city utility's judgement are needed to determine the amounts and time of
delivery of power and energy. However, in the event this agreement is
terminated, the qualifying facility will pay the city utility, promptly upon
receipt of statement, the cost, including all applicable overhead of retiring
the meters and the undepreciated portion of the actual cost of installing the
meters. It is recognized that the cost to the city utility of installing the
meters is estimated for convenience only to be about twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00), but said estimate shall not be binding upon the parties,
and the qualifying facility shall be obligated to make payment to the city
electric utility based on the actual installed cost.
   K.   Liability For System:
      1.   The qualifying facility shall: a) indemnify the city electric
utility, its agents and employees against loss, damage, expense and all
liability resulting from injury or death of any person or persons including,
but not limited to, city employees or customers, or damage to property,
including, but not limited to, property of the city or customer, resulting
from, or arising out of, or in any way connected with the installation,
inspection, maintenance, testing and use of the generator and, on the city
utility's request, defend any suit asserting a claim covered by this indemnity;
and b) reimburse the city electric system for all loss, expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees, incurred in consequence with any claim, demand or
cause of action which may be made or brought against the city electric utility
arising out of or in any way connected with the use of the equipment. The
obligation of the qualifying facility under this section, accrued or not, then
known or unknown, shall be continuing as to any act, occurrence, or omission
occurring prior to or following the termination of this section.
      2.   The city electric system's approval of the customer's use of the
equipment shall not be construed as confirming or endorsing the design or
effectiveness of the equipment or the qualifying facility's plan for use of the
equipment for actual reducing demand or energy usage, or as any warranty of the
safety, durability or reliability of the equipment.
   L.   Rates Established:
      1.   For electrical power received, the city electric utility shall pay a
qualifying facility an amount to be determined by the city.
      2.   The foregoing rates are based upon the normal net cost of electric
power to the city electric utility, and will be increased or decreased, based
upon the increased or decreased cost to the city electric utility.
   M.   Publication Of Provisions: This section shall be published in a local
newspaper having general circulation in the area of the city electric utility,
advising potential customers of the availability of connection to the city
electric utility for cogeneration facilities and generating facilities. (Ord.
1016, 4-6-1981; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Water And Sewer Systems Combined
8-3-2: Combined Waterworks And Sewerage Department
8-3-3: Water Rates And Regulations
8-3-4: Sewer Rates And Regulations
8-3-5: Special Negotiation, Industrial Users
8-3-6: Owner And Occupant Jointly Liable For Service
8-3-7: Revenues Held Separate And Apart
8-3-8: Administration Of Waterworks And Sewerage Fund
8-3-9: System Of Accounts Maintained; Periodic Audits
8-3-10: Provisions Filed With County Recorder
8-3-11:    Tampering With Water Meters
8-3-1: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS COMBINED:
The existing waterworks system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, and the
existing sewerage system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions that may hereafter be made thereto, of the City,
are hereby declared to be a combined system, and said combined waterworks and
sewerage system shall be maintained and operated as a single utility, and a
charge or rate shall be established for the use of such combined system, which
shall be reasonable and commensurate with the services performed by said
combined system, and shall be sufficient to maintain, operate, provide an
adequate depreciation fund, and pay the principal and interest on any revenue
bonds which may be issued, which by their terms are made payable from the
revenues of such combined system. (Ord. 516, 1945)
8-3-2: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby established an executive department of the City to be known and
designated as the Combined Waterworks and Sewerage Department, and there shall
be placed in charge of the general management and control thereof an
appropriate City official, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council, it being hereby determined and declared that the
establishment of said department and the appointment of said City official as
aforesaid is necessary and expedient for the best interests of the City. All
necessary employees of said department shall likewise be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council. (Ord. 521, 9-17-1945; amd. 2006 Code)
8-3-3: WATER RATES AND REGULATIONS 1 :
The following rates and charges shall apply, and rules and regulations shall be
adhered to by those consumers of water from the City water system: (Ord. 942,
eff. 12-1-1977)
   A.   Monthly Rates:
      1.   Rates And Charges:
         a.   2016:
            (1)   Monthly Rates And Charges: From and after September 7, 2016,
this subsection A1a establishes the rates and charges to be made and collected
by the City of Carmi for water sold and furnished to purchasers and consumers
from the Municipal waterworks and distribution system of said City which shall
be sold and paid for monthly at the following rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$11.68 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1168; hundred gallons - $1.1676;
thousand gallons - $11.6760.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $23.49 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0587; hundred gallons - $0.5872; thousand
gallons - $5.8722.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0536; hundred gallons - $0.5358; thousand gallons - $5.3578.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0536; hundred gallons - $0.5358; thousand gallons - $5.3578.
The minimum charge per month shall be $11.68, and shall be subject to a City
tax and rural rate adjustment, as follows.
            (2)   Rural Rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$14.65 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1465; hundred gallons - $1.4648;
thousand gallons - $14.6475.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $29.11 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0728; hundred gallons - $0.7277; thousand
gallons - $7.2765.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0674; hundred gallons - $0.6738; thousand gallons - $6.7377.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0674; hundred gallons - $0.6738; thousand gallons - $6.7377.
The minimum charge for rural rates per month shall be $14.65, and shall be
subject to a City tax.
         b.   2017:
            (1)   Monthly Rates And Charges: From and after September 7, 2017,
this subsection A1b establishes the rates and charges to be made and collected
by the City of Carmi for water sold and furnished to purchasers and consumers
from the Municipal waterworks and distribution system of said City which shall
be sold and paid for monthly at the following rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$12.49 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1249; hundred gallons - $1.2493;
thousand gallons - $12.4933.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $25.13 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0628; hundred gallons - $0.6283; thousand
gallons - $6.2833.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0573; hundred gallons - $0.5733; thousand gallons - $5.7329.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0573; hundred gallons - $0.5733; thousand gallons - $5.7329.
The minimum charge per month shall be $12.49, and shall be subject to a City
tax and rural rate adjustment, as follows.
            (2)   Rural Rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$15.67 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1567; hundred gallons - $1.5673;
thousand gallons - $15.6728.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $31.14 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0779; hundred gallons - $0.7786; thousand
gallons - $7.7859.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0721; hundred gallons - $0.7209; thousand gallons - $7.2094.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0721; hundred gallons - $0.7209; thousand gallons - $7.2094.
The minimum charge per month for rural rates shall be $15.67, and shall be
subject to a City tax.
         c.   2018:
            (1)   Monthly Rates And Charges: From and after September 7, 2018,
this subsection A1c establishes the rates and charges to be made and collected
by the City of Carmi for water sold and furnished to purchasers and consumers
from the Municipal waterworks and distribution system of said City which shall
be sold and paid for monthly at the following rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$13.37 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1337; hundred gallons - $1.3368;
thousand gallons - $13.3679.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $26.89 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0672; hundred gallons - $0.6723; thousand
gallons - $6.7231.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0613; hundred gallons - $0.6134; thousand gallons - $6.1342.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0613; hundred gallons - $0.6134; thousand gallons - $6.1342.
The minimum charge per month shall be $13.37, and shall be subject to a City
tax and rural rate adjustment, as follows.
            (2)   Rural Rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$16.77 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1677; hundred gallons - $1.6770;
thousand gallons - $16.7699.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $33.32 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0833; hundred gallons - $0.8331; thousand
gallons - $8.3309.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0771; hundred gallons - $0.7714; thousand gallons - $7.7140.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0771; hundred gallons - $0.7714; thousand gallons - $7.7140.
The minimum charge per month for rural rates shall be $16.77, and shall be
subject to a City tax.
         d.   2019:
            (1)   Monthly Rates And Charges: From and after September 7, 2019,
this subsection A1d establishes the rates and charges to be made and collected
by the City of Carmi for water sold and furnished to purchasers and consumers
from the Municipal waterworks and distribution system of said City which shall
be sold and paid for monthly at the following rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$14.30 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1430; hundred gallons - $1.4304;
thousand gallons - $14.3036.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $28.77 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0719; hundred gallons - $0.7194; thousand
gallons - $7.1937.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0656; hundred gallons - $0.6564; thousand gallons - $6.5636.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0656; hundred gallons - $0.6564; thousand gallons - $6.5636.
The minimum charge shall per month be $14.30, and shall be subject to a City
tax and rural rate adjustment, as follows.
            (2)   Rural Rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$17.94 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1794; hundred gallons - $1.7944;
thousand gallons - $17.9438.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $35.66 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0891; hundred gallons - $0.8914; thousand
gallons - $8.9140.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0825; hundred gallons - $0.8254; thousand gallons - $8.2540.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0825; hundred gallons - $0.8254; thousand gallons - $8.2540.
The minimum charge per month for rural rates shall be $17.94, and shall be
subject to a City tax.
         e.   2020:
            (1)   Monthly Rates And Charges: From and after September 7, 2020,
this subsection A1e establishes the rates and charges to be made and collected
by the City of Carmi for water sold and furnished to purchasers and consumers
from the Municipal waterworks and distribution system of said City which shall
be sold and paid for monthly at the following rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$15.30 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1530; hundred gallons - $1.5305;
thousand gallons - $15.3049.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $30.79 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0770; hundred gallons - $0.7697; thousand
gallons - $7.6973.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0702; hundred gallons - $0.7023; thousand gallons - $7.0230.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0702; hundred gallons - $0.7023; thousand gallons - $7.0230.
The minimum charge per month shall be $15.30, and shall be subject to a City
tax and rural rate adjustment, as follows.
            (2)   Rural Rates:
               (A)   For the first 1,000 gallons used per month: minimum rate -
$19.20 per 1,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.1920; hundred gallons - $1.9200;
thousand gallons - $19.1999.
               (B)   For the next 4,000 gallons used per month: $38.15 per
4,000 gallons; ten gallons - $0.0954; hundred gallons - $0.9538; thousand
gallons - $9.5380.
               (C)   For the next 5,000 gallons used per month: ten gallons -
$0.0883; hundred gallons - $0.8832; thousand gallons - $8.8318.
               (D)   For all gallons over 10,000 gallons used per month: ten
gallons - $0.0883; hundred gallons - $0.8832; thousand gallons - $8.8318.
The minimum charge per month for rural rates shall be $19.20, and shall be
subject to a City tax. (Ord. 1508, 9-6-2016)
      2.   City Tax: A Carmi City Utility Tax of five percent (5%) shall be
added to the water rate charges 2 . (Ord. 1425, 7-6-2010)
      3.   Monthly Meter Fee: In addition to the regular monthly charges for
water purchase and consumption from the Municipal waterworks and distribution
system of the City of Carmi, a flat rate monthly meter fee of four dollars
($4.00) shall be added to the monthly utility charges of all City and rural
water customers whom are billed directly from the City of Carmi Light and Water
Office.
This flat rate monthly water meter charge of four dollars ($4.00) shall become
effective upon the approval date of said loan agreement and remain in force for
the duration of this debt obligation not to exceed twenty (20) years. (Ord.
1509, 9-6-2016)
   B.   Tap Fees:
      1.   Within City Limits: Any person desiring a new connection to the
water system shall pay to the City, in advance, as a hook-up fee to defray the
cost of meter and installation, the following charges:
 
3/4 inch service                          $ 1,200.00
Additional setter inside City limits only 600.00
1 inch service                            1,700.00
2 inch service                            6,500.00
 
      2.   Outside City Limits: The above charges shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) additional for connections made outside the City limits.
      3.   Service Line Bore: In addition to the above charges (whether inside
or outside the City), should a new connection require a service line bore, the
person requesting the new connection shall pay in advance a two thousand dollar
($2,000.00) bore fee. An additional bore fee of $40.00 per foot shall be
charged, after installation of service, for any bore beyond 50 feet at the
completion of the installation.
   C.   Water Fire Prevention Sprinkler System Charge:
      1.   Annual Charge: For every business or person installing a water fire
prevention sprinkler system in a building owned by such business or person, the
City shall charge such business or person and shall be entitled to receive the
sum of one hundred sixty four dollars ($164.00) per year for each fire hydrant,
plus a charge of sixteen cents ($0.16) per water head, per sprinkler, per year,
for each fire hydrant and water head installed on premises owned by such
business or person.
      2.   Cost Of Materials: In addition to the annual charge above provided,
any business or person installing a water fire prevention sprinkler system
shall pay to the City the cost of all materials required to be installed by the
City to provide adequate water supply to the premises owned by such business or
person. (Ord. 1100, 10-21-1985)
   D.   Application For Service: Businesses or individuals desiring services
from the waterworks shall make application to the City office. Said application
shall be processed and connection made at the option of the City.
   E.   Service Lines And Meters:
      1.   City Authority: The City water system shall be responsible for
installing and maintaining the service lines and meters of said water system
and shall have the right to refuse service when the capacity of the City system
will not permit more usage. (Ord. 942, eff. 12-1-1977)
      2.   Meter Required: No person shall use or attempt to use any water
furnished by the City through its water mains without first having installed a
water meter as provided herein. (Ord. 413, 12-5-1927)
   F.   Nonliability Of City: The City shall not be liable for damages or
injuries to persons and/or property resulting from the installation and
maintenance of said systems, and the City reserves the right to regulate the
use of water as to the use or intended purpose on the consumer's premises.
   G.   Consumer Responsibility:
      1.   Service Lines And Meters: The consumer shall be responsible for
installing and maintaining service lines from the meters to the point of usage,
and to provide a suitable place for meters when located on the consumer's
property.
      2.   Easement: The consumer further shall agree to give easement when any
part of the City lines or equipment are located on his land.
      3.   Damage To System: A consumer shall further be responsible for damage
to the water system's property and shall only use water for the specific uses
set forth from time to time by the City.
   H.   City Review Of Plans And Specifications; Authority To Limit: The City
maintains the right to limit the number and sizes of mains to conform with the
use and capacity of the water system, and also reserves the right to make or
allow extensions to the system as it deems advisable. All plans and
specifications shall be reviewed and approved by all appropriate City, State
and Federal agencies, and any permit for connections or additions are subject
to such review and approval.
   I.   Change Of Occupancy, Duty Of New Occupant: In the case of change of
occupancy of a residence, it shall be the duty of the new occupant to notify
the City of said change, and it shall be the responsibility of the new occupant
to see that any water originally consumed is paid for or such new occupant
shall be liable for said previous use. There shall be a charge of two dollars
($2.00) paid to the City for each new resident because of a residence change.
   J.   Reading Meters; Billing 3 : The meters shall be read monthly and bills
prepared and mailed on or about the first day of each month for water used to
the date of reading.
   K.   Leak In Water Line; Repair By Customer:
      1.   Demand Of City To Repair: If a City water customer has a leak in his
water line or water system, same shall be repaired immediately upon demand of
the City.
      2.   Failure To Repair; Discontinuance Of Service: Failure of any City
water customer to repair leaks to his water line or water system after demand
made in writing by the City shall result in a discontinuance of water service
to that customer.
   L.   Water Main Access: any new water service added onto the City of Carmi
water service must have a minimum of forty (40) feet of water main access.
(Ord. 942, eff. 12-1-1977; amd. Ord. 1165, 3-18-1991; Ord. 1171, 7-15-1991;
Ord. 1426, 8-17-2010; Ord. 1573, 6-1-2021; Ord. 1575, 6-1-2021; Ord. 1618, 2-
20-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 1 of this title.
2 1. See also subsection 3-1-4B2 of this Code.
3 1. See also section
  8-1-3 of this title.
8-3-4: SEWER RATES AND REGULATIONS 1 :
The following rates and charges shall apply, and rules and regulations shall be
adhered to by users of the sewerage system: (Ord. 943, eff. 12-1-1977; amd.
2006 Code)
   A.   Monthly Rates:
      1.   Rates And Charges Established: From and after the effective date
hereof, the rates and charges for the use and services of the sewage system of
the City shall be paid monthly at the following rates:
         a.   Rates effective June 1, 2005:
            (1)   City rates:
For the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month, seven dollars
($7.00) minimum rate.
For gallons in excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month,
three dollars ($3.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
            (2)   Rural rates:
For the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month, eight dollars twenty
six cents ($8.26) minimum rate.
For gallons in excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month,
three dollars twenty six cents ($3.26) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
         b.   Rates effective June 1, 2006:
            (1)   City rates:
For the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month, seven dollars
($7.00) minimum rate.
For gallons in excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month,
four dollars ($4.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
            (2)   Rural rates:
For the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month, eight dollars twenty
six cents ($8.26) minimum rate.
For gallons in excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month,
four dollars twenty six cents ($4.26) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. (Ord.
1361, 3-6-2006)
         c.   Rates effective December 1, 2017:
            (1)   City rates:
For the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month - seven dollars
($7.00) minimum rate.
For gallons in excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month
- five dollars fifty four cents ($5.54) per one thousand (1,000) gallons to
five thousand (5,000) gallons.
For gallons in excess of the first five thousand (5,000) gallons used per month
- five dollars ($5.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons used.
            (2)   Rural rates:
For the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month, eight dollars twenty
six cents ($8.26) minimum rate.
For gallons in excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month,
five dollars twenty six cents ($5.26) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      2.   City Tax: A Carmi City Tax of five percent (5%) shall be added to
the sewer rate charges.
   B.   Tap Fees:
      1.   Any person desiring a new connection to the sewage system shall pay
to the City, in advance, as a hook-up fee as follows:
 
Residential sewer tap permit within City limits  $100.00
Residential sewer tap permit outside City limits 300.00
Business sewer tap permit within City limits     200.00
Business sewer tap permit outside City limits    400.00
 
      2.   Should the City of Carmi need to provide the resident or their
plumber with materials for the tap, the following charges shall apply:
 
6x4 tee         $125.00
8x4 tee         $250.00
Wrap around tap $100.00
 
      3.   Should the City of Carmi need to dig for the resident to tap, the
following fees apply:
 
Dig in grass                        $500.00
Dig in road, along with road repair $1,500.00
 
   C.   Application For Service: Businesses or individuals desiring services
from the sewage system shall make application to the City office. Said
application shall be processed and connection made at customer's expense by a
licensed plumber and the City before being placed in service.
   D.   Service Line Installation And Maintenance: The City sewage system shall
be responsible for installing and maintaining the service lines of the sewage
system and shall have the right to refuse service when the capacity of the
system will not permit more usage.
   E.   Nonliability Of City: The City shall not be liable for damages or
injuries to persons and/or property resulting from the installation and
maintenance of said system.
   F.   Extensions Paid For By Users; City Authority:
      1.   Payment In Advance: Any extensions to the sewage system shall be
paid for by the users of said extensions before said extensions are installed.
      2.   Limitations Imposed By City: The City maintains the right to limit
the number and sizes of these extensions to conform with the use and capacity
of the system, and also reserves the right to allow extensions to the system as
it deems advisable.
      3.   Approval By Local, State And Federal Agencies: All plans and
specifications shall be reviewed and approved by all appropriate City, State
and Federal agencies, and any extension proposed, or connection made is subject
to said review and approval.
   G.   Reading Meters; Billing 1 : The water meters shall be read monthly and
bills prepared and mailed on or about the first day of each month for water
used to the date of reading.
   H.   Leak In Sewer Line; Repair By Customer:
      1.   Immediate Discontinuance For Health Hazard: If a City sewer customer
has a break or leak in his sewage line or sewer system or other defects which,
in the opinion of the City, is creating a health hazard, such sewage service
may be immediately discontinued.
      2.   City Repair; Customer Responsible For Cost: If a City sewage
customer has a break or leak in his sewage line or sewage system, the City
shall have the right to repair or replace said sewage line or sewage system. If
the City repairs or replaces the sewage line or sewage system of a customer
which, in the opinion of the City, said sewage line or sewage system is
creating a health hazard, the customer shall pay to the City the reasonable and
necessary charges for repair or replacement of the said system before that
customer's sewage service is restored.  (Ord. 943, eff. 12-1-1977; amd. Ord.
1165, 3-18-1991; 2006 Code; Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; Ord. 1540, 11-21-2017; Ord.
1619, 2-20-2024)
 
Notes
1 2. See also chapter 1 of this title.
1 1. See also section
  8-1-3 of this title.
8-3-5: SPECIAL NEGOTIATION, INDUSTRIAL USERS:
The city reserves the right to negotiate a special rate for and with industrial
users of water and sewerage service or of water only or of sewerage service
only, upon application made by such user for such negotiation. (Ord. 521, 9-17-
1945)
8-3-6: OWNER AND OCCUPANT JOINTLY LIABLE FOR SERVICE 1 :
The owner of the premises and the occupant thereof and the user of either water
or sewerage services, or both water and sewerage service, shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service on said premises, and the service is
furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner of
the premises, occupant and user of the service, are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the city. (Ord. 521, 9-17-1945)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-5-9A1 of this title.
8-3-7: REVENUES HELD SEPARATE AND APART:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the combined waterworks
and sewerage system shall be held by the appropriate city official separate and
apart from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
city, and all of said sums, without any deductions whatsoever, shall be
delivered to the city treasurer, from time to time, as directed by the city
council. (Ord. 521, 9-17-1945; amd. 2006 Code)
8-3-8: ADMINISTRATION OF WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE FUND:
The appropriate city official shall receive all such revenues from the combined
waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of said system, as the same may be collected by him, and deposit the
same in a separate fund, designated as the "waterworks and sewerage fund of the
city of Carmi", and the treasurer shall administer said fund in every respect
in the manner provided by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-139-1 et seq., as
amended, and all other laws thereunto enabling. (Ord. 521, 9-17-1945; amd. 2006
Code)
8-3-9: SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS MAINTAINED; PERIODIC AUDITS:
The appropriate city official shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts, in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks
and sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals the city council shall
cause to be made an audit of the books by an independent auditing concern to
show the receipts and disbursements of the combined system. (Ord. 521, 9-17-
1945; amd. 2006 Code)
8-3-10: PROVISIONS FILED WITH COUNTY RECORDER:
A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the city clerk, shall be filed in
the office of the county recorder of deeds, and shall be deemed notice to all
owners of real estate of their liability for water and sewerage service
supplied any occupant or user of such services on their properties. (Ord. 521,
9-17-1945)
8-3-11: TAMPERING WITH WATER METERS:
   A.   The service of any customer in which a water meter has been tampered
with, in any attempt to cause an inaccurate metering or restore service shut
off due to non-payment, shall be immediately discontinued.
   B.   Such service shall be reconnected after payment of a penalty by the
user to Carmi Light and Water, and may be established at the sole discretion of
the City. The first offense will be a fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00).
The second offense will be a fine of four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00). Each
additional offence will be a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord.
1632, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 4
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Public Water Supply Wells; Setback Zone
8-4-2: Cross Connection Control
8-4-3: Excavations For Water Service; Use Of Water For Construction
8-4-4: Potable Water Supply
8-4-1: PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS; SETBACK ZONE:
   A.   Pursuant to the authority conferred by ILCS 5/11-125-4 (2000); 415 ILCS
5/14.2, and 5/14.3 (2000); and in the interest of securing the public health,
safety, and welfare; to preserve the quality and quantity of groundwater
resources in order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for present and
future generations; and to preserve groundwater resources currently in use and
those aquifers having a potential for future use as a public water supply, the
provisions of this section shall apply to all properties located within the
minimum setback zone established under Section 14.2 of the Environmental
Protection Act. (“Act”) (415 ILCS 5/14.2 (2000)) and this section, and the
maximum setback zone established under Section 14.3 of the Act (415 ILCS 5/14.3
(2000)) and this section.
   B.   Definitions: Except as stated in this section, and unless a different
meaning of a word or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or
terms in this section shall be the same as those used in the Act and the
Illinois Groundwater Protection Act (415 ILCS 55/1 (2000)):
      ACT: The Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 (2000)):
      AGENCY: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      BOARD: The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
      MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under Section 14.3 of the Act and this section, and described in
Appendix A.
      MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under Section 14.2 of the Act and this section, and described in
Appendix A to the ordinance codified herein.
   C.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Except as provided in divisions D. or E. of this section, no person
shall place a new potential source, new potential secondary source, or new
potential route within the minimum setback zone.
      2.   Except as provided otherwise in 8-6-4, no person shall place a new
potential primary source within the maximum setback zone.
   D.   Waivers, Exceptions, And Certifications Of Minimal Hazard:
      1.   If, pursuant to Section 14.2(b) of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is granted a waiver by the Agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a
waiver to the same extent from division C.1. of this section.
      2.   If, pursuant to Section 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating), new
potential secondary source, or new potential route is granted and exception by
the Board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent
from division C.1. of this section.
      3.   If, pursuant to Section 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating), is granted
an exception by the Board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to
the same extent from division C.2. of this section.
      4.   If, pursuant to Section 14.5 of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is issued a certificate of , minimal hazard by the Agency, such owner
shall not be subject to division C.1. of this section to the same extent that
such owner is not subject to Section 14.2(d) of the Act.
   E.   Exclusion: division C.1. of this section shall not apply to new common
sources of sanitary pollution as specified pursuant to Section 17 of the Act
and the regulations adopted there under by the Agency; however, no such common
sources may be located within the applicable minimum distance from a community
water supply well specified by such regulations. (Ord. 1181, 7-6-1992; amd.
2006 Code; Ord. 11577, 10-5-2021)
8-4-2: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Backflow Prevention Device Installation; Compliance With Illinois
Plumbing Code: If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the
judgment of the city, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for
the safety of the public water supply system, the city will give notice to the
water customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
customer shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and all
applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved device as required by the Illinois plumbing code and local
regulations.
   B.   Approval Of Private Or Auxiliary System Required: No person shall
establish or permit to be established, or maintain or permit to be maintained,
any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other
than the regular public water supply of the city enters the supply or
distribution system of the city, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the city and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   C.   Surveys And Investigations: It shall be the duty of the city to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2)
years, or as often as the city shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five (5)
years.
   D.   Right Of Entry For Inspections: The approved cross connection control
device inspector shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the city for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross connections, and the city shall have the right to enter at any reasonable
time any property served by a connection to the public water supply or
distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the city any information which such inspector may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, with the discretion of
the city be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided
in this section.
   E.   Discontinue Water Service For Violation; Notice; Fee: The city is
hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in
violation of the provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such
other precautionary measures as the city may deem necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section, and
until a reconnection fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) is paid to the city.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the city is
assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water
supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of
the cause of disconnection.
   F.   Consumer Responsible For Cost Of Cleanup: The consumer responsible for
backsiphoned material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of
the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross connection or
an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has
been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply
system. (Ord. 1142, 7-17-1989, eff. 7-17-1989; amd. 2006 Code)
8-4-3: EXCAVATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE; USE OF WATER FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall dig up any street, alley, sidewalk,
parking or other place within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose
of making water connections, or open ditches, without first obtaining a permit
from the city clerk so to do. (Ord. 323, 11-3-1919; amd. Ord. 1034, 12-7-1981)
   B.   Bond Required: Persons applying for a permit must execute a bond in
sufficient sum to assure the replacement of the streets, sidewalks, etc., in as
good a condition as found.
   C.   Describe Improvement: No person shall make any improvements, any taps
into or extensions of water mains, or make any extensions of service now
existing on public or private property connected with the water system of the
city without first presenting in writing the nature of such improvements and
obtaining a permit from the city clerk so to do.
   D.   Building Repair Or Construction: No person shall repair, construct or
erect any building where the use of city water is necessary without first
presenting the number of brick or perch of stone to be laid, yards of
plastering to be spread, yards of concrete to be laid, and paying the water
rate for same and obtaining a permit from the city clerk so to do.
   E.   Sidewalk Construction: Any person requiring the use of city water in
the construction of any concrete sidewalk or works of similar character must
present to the city clerk the number of yards to be constructed, and on payment
of the water rate, a permit will be issued. (Ord. 323, 11-13-1919)
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 323, 11-3-1919; amd. 2006 Code)
8-4-4: POTABLE WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Prohibited: Use of groundwater as a potable water supply is prohibited.
Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date hereof,
the use of, or attempted use of, groundwater from within the boundaries set
forth in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and detailed on a
boundary drawing in exhibit B attached to the ordinance codified herein, as a
potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other
method, is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes the city of
Carmi.
   B.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation.
   C.   Definitions: "Person" is any individual, partnership, copartnership,
firm, company, limited liability company, corporation, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns. (Ord. 1375, 4-30-2007)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-5-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-5-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-5-5: Applications For Sewer Permits
8-5-6: Use Of Public Sewers
8-5-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-5-8: Wastewater Service Charges
8-5-9: Billing; Liability For Payment
8-5-10: Delinquencies; Lien For Nonpayment
8-5-11: Disposition Of Revenues
8-5-12: System Of Accounts; Annual Audit
8-5-13: Access To Records
8-5-14: Appeal Computation Of Rates And Charges
8-5-15: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
8-5-16: Penalties
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.), as amended (pub.
l. 95-217).
Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II, grants for
construction of treatment works of the act, and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The council of the city of Carmi.
Chapter: This chapter.
City: The city of Carmi.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator, or, where appropriated by the director, after enactment of the
federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that serve
one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary (or
combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois anti-pollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc., outstanding.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
Surcharge: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in section
8-5-6 of this chapter.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
section
8-5-8 of this chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge,
the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments
or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial Users: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substance
into products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user: "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial", or "industrial" as defined in this section.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
Effluent Criteria: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of "floatable oil" if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process, or from the development, recovery or processing of
any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average workday; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its waste a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the federal act; or d) is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is one-thousandth gram (0.001 g) of the constituent in one
thousand milliliters (1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly
used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen-hundredths (0.17)
pounds of BOD and twenty-hundredths (0.20) pounds of suspended solids.
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
Unpolluted Water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
Water Quality Standards: Defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
8-5-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer Required: The owner of all the houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley, or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located any
public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the city, is hereby required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within seventy five feet
(75') (22.5 meters) of the property line. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
8-5-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection 8-5-2D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
   B.   Permit Required; Application; Fee: Before commencement of construction
of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the council. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the city (reference appendix 2 attached to ordinance 1361,
on file in the office of the city clerk), which the applicant shall supplement
by any plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the
council. A permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to
the city at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection And Approval By City: A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the city council. The city shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the council when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within seventy two (72) hours of the receipt of written notice by the city
council. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state
private sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  and with the state
environmental protection agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than  n/a  square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Connection To Public Sewer When Available:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection 8-5-2D of
this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days, and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or
dirt.
   F.   Operation Of Private System: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no
expense to the city.
   G.   Additional State Requirements: No statement contained in this section
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by the Illinois department of public health. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
8-5-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city
council. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications:
         a.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential wastewater service; and 2) for commercial, institutional/
governmental or industrial wastewater service. In either case, the owner or his
agent shall make application on a special form furnished by city (reference
appendix 2 attached to ordinance 1361 on file in the office of the city clerk).
(Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
         b.   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city council.
      3.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics, and type of activity.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers Required: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the council, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, water pollution control federation
manual of practice no. 9, and standard specifications for water and sewer main
construction in Illinois shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection G2 of this section, and discharged to
the building sewer.
   E.   Connections To System: The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing
Materials, water pollution control federation manual of practice no. 9, and
standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the council before
installation.
   F.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   G.   Discharges Into System:
      1.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      2.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
   H.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the council when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
council or its representative.
   I.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 1361,
3-6-2006)
8-5-5: APPLICATIONS FOR SEWER PERMITS:
The following sewer permit application forms shall be on file in the office of
the city clerk:
      Residential or commercial building sewer
      Private sewage disposal
      Industrial sewer
(Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
8-5-6: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Storm Water Discharges:
      1.   Discharge To Sanitary Sewer Prohibited: No person shall discharge,
or cause to be discharged, any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Use Of Storm Sewers: Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage
shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined
sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the council.
Industrial cooling waters or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon
approval of the council, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Waters And Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Harmful Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the council that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment processes or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property; or
constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the council will give consideration to such factors as the quantities
of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials
of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity
of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (32° and 150°F) (0° and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the council.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the council for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations, exceeding limits which may be
established by the council as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the council in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligrams
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the council in compliance
with applicable state and federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time
except as permitted by the council in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in section
8-5-1 of this chapter.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   D.   Council Authority; Pretreatment:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the
council, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the council may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection I of this section.
      2.   If the council permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the council, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   E.   Interceptors: Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the council, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the council, and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   F.   Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing
facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   G.   Control Manhole Required: Each industry shall be required to install a
control manhole, and when required by the council, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the council. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   H.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses:
      1.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
      2.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state,
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
      3.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods, and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is
appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but
not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from twenty four
(24) hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.
   I.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, in accordance with section
8-5-8 of this chapter, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system. (Ord.
1361, 3-6-2006)
8-5-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: The council and other duly authorized
employees of the city, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the
U.S. environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The council or its representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   Liability Of City And Company: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in subsection A of this section, the council or
duly authorized employees of the city, the Illinois environmental protection
agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and the city
shall indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain conditions as required in subsections 8-5-
6H1 and H2 of this chapter.
   C.   Proper Credentials Required: The council and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord.
1361, 3-6-2006)
8-5-8: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charges:
      1.   Charges Encompassed: The wastewater service charge for the use of
and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the city shall consist
of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement,
applicable surcharges and local capital cost charge composed of a debt service
charge and a capital improvement charge.
      2.   Basis For Basic User Charge:
         a.   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
            (1)   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
            (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/l).
         b.   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
            (1)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to
be treated.
            (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
            (3)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by
volume, suspended solids and BOD.
            (4)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, suspended
solids and BOD.
            (5)   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal
sewage strength.
            (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound per one thousand (1,000)
gallons in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
      3.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters
exceed the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l).
The surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter
(200 mg/l) and two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) concentration
for BOD and SS, respectively.
      4.   Adequacy: The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be
reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the
city in their annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be
revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in
operation and maintenance costs, including replacement costs.
      5.   Annual Notification: The users of wastewater treatment services will
be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that
portion of the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   B.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the council for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from
these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the council if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the council. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
   C.   Basic User Rates Established: The basic user rates for the city are
those established in subsection 8-3-4A of this title. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006;
amd. 2006 Code)
8-5-9: BILLING; LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills; Due Date 1 :
      1.   Monthly Billing; Liability For Payment: Rates or charges for service
shall be payable monthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and
the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the
service to such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the
city only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user
of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city 2 .
      2.   Rendition Of Bills: Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the
city treasurer on the first day of the month succeeding the period for which
the service is billed.
      3.   Late Payment Penalty: All sewer bills are due and payable fifteen
(15) days after being sent out. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added
to all bills not paid by the fifteenth day after they have been rendered.
   B.   Notice Of Rates: Each user will be notified by the city in conjunction
with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad
valorem taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment services,
including the financial information of section
8-5-12 of this chapter.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-3 of this title.
2 2. See also section
  8-3-6 of this title.
8-5-10: DELINQUENCIES; LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Delinquent Bills: If the charges for such services are not paid within
fifteen (15) days or twenty eight (28) days after the rendition of the bill for
such services, such services shall be discontinued without further notice and
shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
   B.   Lien Claim:
      1.   Recording With County: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains
unpaid for twenty eight (28) days after it has been rendered, the city
treasurer shall file with the county recorder of deeds a statement of lien
claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien
for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by
the bill.
      2.   Notice To Property Owner: If the user whose bill is unpaid is not
the owner of the premises and the city treasurer has notice of this, notice
shall be mailed to the owner of the premises, if his address be known to the
treasurer, whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of forty five (45)
days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
      3.   Failure To Record Or Give Notice Of Lien: The failure of the city
treasurer to record such lien or to mail such notice or the failure of the
owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien
for unpaid bills as mentioned in subsection B4 of this section. (Ord. 1361, 3-
6-2006)
      4.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the city. The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid for forty five (45) days after it has been rendered. (Ord.
1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
8-5-11: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
   A.   Monies Held Separate And Apart: All revenues and monies derived from
the operation of the sewerage system shall be deposited in the sewerage account
of the waterworks and sewerage fund. All such revenues and monies shall be held
by the city treasurer separate and apart from his private funds and separate
and apart from all other funds of the city and all of said sum, without any
deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the city treasurer not more than ten
(10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may
from time to time be directed by the mayor and council.
   B.   Administration Of Waterworks And Sewerage Fund: The city treasurer
shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage system and all other funds
and monies incident to the operation of such system as the same may be
delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the fund designated the
waterworks and sewerage fund of the city. The treasurer shall administer such
fund in every respect in the manner provided by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-141-18. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
8-5-12: SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS; ANNUAL AUDIT:
   A.   Record Keeping; Audit: The city treasurer shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   B.   Financial Information Required: In addition to the customary operating
statements, the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and
operating expenses of the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost,
to indicate that sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and
capital amounts required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery
system do in fact meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
8-5-13: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the city
system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the (special and general conditions to any state grant)
(federal regulations and conditions of the federal grant). (Ord. 1361, 3-6-
2006)
8-5-14: APPEAL COMPUTATION OF RATES AND CHARGES:
The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in section
8-5-8 of this chapter shall be made available to a user within seven (7) days
of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used
or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by council within forty five
(45) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd. 2006 Code)
8-5-15: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 1361, 3-
6-2006)
8-5-16: PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time Limit For Remedy: Any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter, except section
8-5-15, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this
chapter. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006; amd.
2006 Code)
   C.   Liability Of Violator: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city by reasons of such violation.
(Ord. 1361, 3-6-2006)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Copy On File
9-1-3: Penalty
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Illinois Public Act 103-0510 and 20 ILCS 3105, the following codes
are adopted:
   A.   New buildings, other than residential buildings, must meet the
standards of the International Building Code, including Appendix G, first
published by the International Code Council during the current year or
proceeding 9 calendar years with the least restrictive provisions for
structural design (20 ILCS 3105/10.18), National Electric Code (required by 20
ILCS 3105/10.09-1), the Illinois Energy Conservation Code (20 ILCS 3125/15),
Illinois Plumbing Code (Illinois Administrative Code Title 77 Part 890 Section
890.110), Illinois Accessibility Code (20 ILCS 3105/10.09-1 and 410 ILCS 25/5)
and Fire Prevention and Safety Rules as required by Illinois Administrative
Code Title 41 Part 100 Section 100.3.
   B.   Rehabilitation work in existing buildings, other than residential
buildings, must meet the standards of the International Building Code, first
published by the International Code Council during the current year or
proceeding 9 calendar years with the least restrictive provisions for
structural design (20 ILCS 3105/10.18) and Fire Prevention and Safety Rules as
required by Illinois Administrative Code Title 41 Part 100 Section 100.3.
Plumbing work as part of renovations must meet standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code (Illinois Administrative Code Title 77 Part 890 Section 890.110).
   C.   New residential buildings must meet the standards of IRC Current
Edition or most recent proceeding edition (815 ILCS 670/15), Illinois Energy
Conservation Code (20 ILCS 3125/15), Illinois Plumbing Code (Illinois
Administrative Code Title 77 Part 890 Section 890.110), and Fire Prevention and
Safety Rules as required by Illinois Administrative Code Title 41 Part 100
Section 100.3. If the residential building is owned, leased or financed by a
governmental unit, the building must comply with the Illinois Accessibility
Code (410 ILCS 25/5).
   D.   New construction multi-story housing must meet the standards of the
Illinois Accessibility Code (410 ILCS 25/5). As defined by 410 ILCS 25/
5 “Multi-story housing” means: “any building of 4 or more stories containing 10
or more dwelling units constructed to be held out for sale or lease by any
person to the public. “Multi-story housing” includes, but is not limited to,
the following building types: apartment buildings, condominium buildings,
convents, housing for the elderly, and monasteries/ This is in addition to
requirements in paragraph C of this section.
   E.   New construction public facilities must meet the standards of the
Illinois Accessibility Code (410 ILCS 25/5). As defined by 410 ILCS 25/5 a
“Public facility” means: “(1) any building, structure, or site improvement
which is: (i) owned by or on behalf of a governmental unit, (ii) leased, rented
or used, in whole or in part, by a governmental unit, or (iii) financed, in
whole or in part, by a grant or a loan made or guaranteed by a governmental
unit; (2) any building, structure, or site improvement used or held out for use
or intended for use by the public or by employees for one or more of, but not
limited to, the following: (i) the purpose of gathering, recreation, transient
lodging, education, employment, institutional care, or the purchase, rental,
sale or acquisition of any goods, personal property or services; (ii) places of
public display or collection; (iii) social service establishments; and (iv)
stations used for specified public transportation; or (3) a public right-of-
way” This is in addition to Paragraph A of this section.
   F.   Pursuant to Illinois Public Act 103-0053, Electric Vehicle Charging
Parking Spaces must be put in place according to Illinois Public Act 103-0053.
   G.   Building Permits are required as stated in City Ordinance 1370. (Ord.
1621, 2-20-2024)
9-1-2: COPY ON FILE:
At least one copy of the codes adopted in section
9-1-1 of this chapter shall be and remain on file in the office of the city
clerk for inspection by the public. (2006 Code)
9-1-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of the codes adopted in section
9-1-1 of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Permission And Bond Required
9-2-1: PERMISSION AND BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement: No person shall move any building upon and along any
street of the city without first having obtained permission to do so from the
streets and alleys committee and without also having given a bond in such an
amount and with surety to be approved by the streets and alleys committee to
indemnify the city and all persons from damage that may be caused by such work.
(Ord. 153, 6-1-1908)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall attempt to move any building upon and
along any street of the city without first having obtained the permission and
giving the bond as required in subsection A of this section, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and the costs of suit. (Ord. 153, 6-1-1908; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Continuing Existing Use And Effective Date
9-3-3: General Requirements
9-3-4: Mobile Home Parks
9-3-5: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
AFFIDAVIT: An oath in writing, sworn to and attested by an individual who has
the authority to administer such an oath.
APPLICANT: Any person making application for a special use permit under the
terms of this chapter.
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a toilet and a bath or
shower facility.
IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME: A mobile home resting on a permanent foundation with
wheels, towing tongue and hitch permanently removed and connected to local
water, sewer and electrical systems.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet and a
bath or shower facility.
MOBILE HOME: A structure designed for a permanent habitation as a single family
dwelling, and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels temporarily
or permanently attached to its frame, from place of its construction or
manufacture to the location at which it intended to be a permanent habitation.
A recreational vehicle temporarily parked and not used as a permanent residence
shall not be construed as a mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land or two (2) or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for five (5) or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a mobile home park if they are
maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a
motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a mobile
home park.
MOBILE HOME PARK PERMIT: A certificate issued by the City of Carmi to allow a
person to set up and use a certain tract of land as a mobile home park.
OWNER: The person to whom the special use permit is issued.
PERMANENT HABITATION: A consecutive period of six (6) months or more.
PERSON: Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust, corporation
or partnership.
REVOCATION: To declare invalid a permit issued to the applicant by the City of
Carmi.
SITE: The lot, tract or parcel of land upon which the mobile home is located as
a dwelling place.
SPACE: Shall be synonymous with "site".
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A certificate issued by the City of Carmi to allow a person
to set up and use as dwelling place a mobile home as defined in this section.
SUSPENSION: To temporarily declare invalid a permit issued to the applicant by
the City of Carmi.
TIE-DOWN OR ANCHORING: A method of securing a mobile home to its foundation in
accordance to the specifications of the Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act of
1990 (revised) 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., and the Mobile
Home Owners Tie-Down Guide prepared by the Illinois Department of Public Health
as amended. (Ord. 1522, 2-21-2017)
9-3-2: CONTINUING EXISTING USE AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
   A.   A mobile home or mobile home park lawfully existing at the time of the
enactment of this chapter may be continued, except as otherwise provided by
this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to prevent the
strengthening or the restoring to a safe condition of any part of a mobile
home, or structure declared unsafe by the Fire Chief, unless it is damaged or
deteriorated more than fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value, as
determined by the City Council.
   B.   The owner of a mobile home lawfully existing at the time of the
enactment of this chapter shall not be required to comply with the general
requirements of this chapter provided, however, that if said lawfully existing
mobile home is moved, replaced or significantly modified subsequent to the
enactment of this chapter it shall then be subject to the general requirements
of this chapter. A significant modification shall be construed as one resulting
in a fifty percent (50%) or greater effect upon the value of said mobile home.
   C.   An existing mobile home park devoted to a non-conforming use may be
continued. When all buildings are removed from the non- conforming mobile home
park such non-conforming use shall cease. (Ord. 1522, 2-21-2017)
9-3-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: All mobile homes located within the City limits shall conform
to the specifications of this chapter.
   B.   Age Of Mobile Home: No mobile home older than twenty (20) years will be
permitted in the City of Carmi and all mobile homes located within the City
limits shall conform to the specifications of this chapter.
   C.   Physical Dimensions: No mobile home shall be located in Carmi which has
less than six hundred (600) square feet of usable interior living space.
   D.   Foundations: Mobile homes to be located in Carmi shall rest on and be
securely attached to a foundation or system of piers or pilings, or concrete
slab according to specifications established and provided by the Illinois
Department of Health.
   E.   Skirting: All mobile homes to be located in Carmi shall be fitted with
suitable skirting or other covering around the base or foundation of the unit
to visually hide the foundations, piers or crawl space beneath the mobile home.
All such skirting or covering shall be of fire resistant material and provide
an access door or inspection hatch. Such skirting shall be in place within
thirty (30) days of the placement of the mobile home upon the site.
   F.   Used, Rebuilt Or Other Than New: No mobile home shall be located in
Carmi that does not satisfy construction and safety standards set out in the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standard Act of 1974 (42
USC 5401 et seq.), as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder (24 CFR
section 3282 et seq., and 24 CFR section 3283 et seq.) as amended. Any mobile
home that does not have attached to it a seal issued by the State of Illinois
Department of Public Health evidencing that it is manufactured in accordance
with Illinois codes and the Illinois Mobile Home and Manufactured Housing
Safety Act and a HUD mobile home seal, shall be deemed to not meet the
requirements of this section.
   G.   City Inspection: All mobile homes, whether new, used, rebuilt or
modified in any way shall upon installation and set-up be inspected by the Fire
Chief to confirm its compliance with this chapter, and all applicable sections
of this Code.
   H.   Independent Mobile Homes Prohibited: No independent mobile home shall
be located in Carmi to be used as a dwelling place, after the effective date of
this chapter. "Independent mobile home" is defined as one that has a self-
contained toilet and/or bath and shower facilities.
   I.   Site: All mobile homes to be located in Carmi shall be on a well-
drained site so that drainage will not constitute a hazard or nuisance to
person, property or water supply in the vicinity of the site.
   J.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size for any mobile home located outside an
approved mobile home park in Carmi shall be of sufficient size to accommodate
the following setback limitations and all other requirements of this chapter.
No single-wide mobile home shall be located within ten feet (10') of any
boundary line. Distance shall be measured from the overall width and length of
the mobile home as defined in this chapter.
   K.   Tie-Down And Anchoring: All mobile homes located in Carmi shall meet
the tie-down and anchoring requirements as specified in the Illinois Mobile
Home Tiedown Act of 1990 (revised) 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et
seq., as amended.
   L.   Water: All mobile homes to be located in Carmi shall be connected to
the City water supply and fitted with suitable water meter connection as
provided in this Code (water).
   M.   Sewer: All mobile homes to be located in Carmi shall be connected to
the City sewer system as provided for in this Code (sewers).
   N.   Electricity: All mobile homes to be located in Carmi shall be connected
to the City electrical system as specified in the current City contract with
its provider of electrical service or other electric company providing service
to the area.
   O.   Fuel Storage: All mobile homes' fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall
be permanently and securely fastened and shall not be located inside or beneath
the mobile homes, or less than fifteen feet (15') from the mobile home
entrance/exit. Such fuel storage shall be permitted in tanks or other approved
containers mounted on an incombustible frame or rack at the rear of the mobile
home. Fuel containers shall not exceed three hundred (300) gallon capacity
unless approved in advance by the City Council.
   P.   Natural Gas Or Butane System: All natural gas or butane systems shall
be installed according to specifications in the current City contract with its
provider of such services. All gas piping installed below ground shall have a
minimum earth covering of eighteen inches (18"). No gas mains or lines shall be
located underground under any mobile home.
   Q.   System Shut-Off Valve: A readily accessible and identified shut-off
valve controlling the flow of fuel to the central fuel piping system shall be
installed near the point of connection to the main fuel system.
   R.   Fuel Oil Distribution System: Fuel oil piping installed below ground
shall have a minimum earth covering of eighteen inches (18") and all fuel lines
shall be provided with a stopcock at the outlet of the fuel container and
another stopcock just before the fuel line enters the mobile home. No fuel oil
lines shall be located or installed under any mobile home.
   S.   Replacement Mobile Homes: Any mobile home to be located in Carmi as a
replacement for an existing mobile home shall conform to all specifications and
requirements of this chapter, including the procedure for application for a new
special use permit.
   T.   Mobile Homes: The City Council may issue a special use permit to locate
a mobile home outside a mobile home park. All mobile homes located outside a
mobile home park shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   U.   Mobile Homes Improperly Placed: All mobile homes improperly placed in
Carmi shall be subject to penalties and fines as provided for in this chapter
and shall be removed at the owner's expense. Any legal fees incurred by the
City, or other costs incurred as the result of an improperly placed mobile home
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   V.   Mobile Homes As Business Structures: No mobile home shall be permitted
to be used as a permanent office or place of business or any commercial
enterprise.
   W.   Mobile Homes - Real Estate Tax: All mobile homes located in Carmi and
not in a mobile home or trailer park, with wheels, towing tongue or frame
removed and placed on a permanent foundation shall be classified as real estate
and taxed as such.
   X.   Special Use Permit:
      1.   A special use permit may be issued by the City of Carmi permitting a
mobile home as defined in this chapter, to be located on any site outside an
approved mobile home park, if the City Council finds:
         a.   The mobile home will comply with the general requirements set
forth in this chapter.
         b.   The mobile home will be located on property owned by or leased by
the owner of the mobile home.
         c.   The proposed special use will permit and encourage an environment
of sustained desirability and stability, and that it will be in harmony with
the character of the surrounding neighborhood.
         d.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity.
The City Council may consider the age, size, condition and general appearance
of the proposed mobile home in making its findings.
      2.   No application for a special use permit shall be considered unless
the applicant furnished a completed and certified application for special use
permit form. The City Clerk shall then schedule a hearing before the City
Council.
      3.   The City Clerk, not more than thirty (30) days, nor less than seven
(7) days before the hearing at which the application for the special use permit
is to be considered, shall send written notice of the hearing to the applicant.
In addition, the City Clerk shall cause notice to be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the City, not more than thirty (30) days nor less
than seven (7) days prior to such hearing.
      4.   A public hearing shall then be held by the City Council and any
party may appear in person, by agent or attorney. The Council shall vote upon
the application and the vote of the Council shall be final with regard to
issuance of a special use permit.
      5.   A fee of sixty dollars ($60.00) shall accompany the application to
cover the cost of publication, postage and legal fees involved in the issuance
of said special use permit. The applicant, upon being issued a special use
permit, shall within a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of
issuance, place a mobile home upon the site or the permit shall expire. A
special use permit as described in this subsection X may be transferred to
another person only upon the written approval of the Council, prior to
transfer.
   Y.   Repairs: Before a mobile home can be moved upon any property
temporarily for repair, the property owner must apply to the Council for a
permit to repair said mobile home. The permit must be approved by City Council
and shall be valid for a period of thirty (30) days after approval by the City
Council.
   Z.   Final Inspection: Not less than thirty (30) and not more than sixty
(60) days after a mobile home, as described in this chapter, has been placed
upon a lot in the City of Carmi, the City Fire Chief shall conduct a proper
inspection to verify that all requirements of this chapter have been complied
with, and shall make a report to the City Council. (Ord. 1522, 2-21-2017)
9-3-4: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Mobile Home Park Permit:
      1.   Permit Required; Application: A mobile home park permit may be
issued by the City of Carmi permitting a mobile home park to be located on any
site conforming to the requirements of this chapter. An applicant for a mobile
home park permit shall file an application for such permit with the City Clerk.
No application for a mobile home park permit shall be considered unless that
applicant furnishes to the City Clerk a completed and certified application for
mobile home park permit form.
      2.   Fee: A fee of sixty dollars ($60.00) shall accompany the application
to cover the cost of publication, postage and legal fees involved in the
issuance of said mobile home park permit.
      3.   Notice Requirements: The City Clerk, not more than thirty (30) days,
nor less than seven (7) days before the hearing at which the application for
the mobile home park permit is to be considered, shall send written notice of
the hearing to the owner or owners as recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder of Deeds, of all property within three hundred feet (300') in each
direction of the property for which the permit is requested. Such distance of
three hundred feet (300') is to be measured from established lot or property
lines. The notice herein required shall contain the address of the location for
which the mobile home park permit is requested, a brief statement of the nature
of the requested mobile home park permit, the name and address of the legal and
beneficial owner of the property for which the special use is requested and the
time and place of hearing. In addition, the City Clerk shall cause notice to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City, not more than
thirty (30) days nor less than seven (7) days prior to such hearing.
      4.   Hearing: A public hearing shall then be held by the City Council and
any party may appear in person, by agent or attorney. After the hearing the
Council shall vote upon the application and the vote of the Council shall be
final with regard to the issuance of a mobile home park permit.
      5.   Time Limit For Establishing Park: The applicant, upon being issued a
mobile home park permit, shall within a period not to exceed six (6) months
from the date of issuance, place a mobile home upon the site or the permit
shall expire.
      6.   Transferability Of Permit: A mobile home park permit as described in
this chapter may be transferred to another person only upon the written
approval of the Council, prior to transfer.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size, Setback Requirements:
      1.   No mobile home park shall be located in Carmi on a tract less than
two (2) acres in area.
      2.   No mobile home park shall be developed on any tract that is less
than two hundred fifty feet (250') in both width or depth.
      3.   No part of any mobile home or other structure in any mobile home
park shall be situated closer than ten feet (10') to any boundary line of the
park.
   C.   Spacing Of Mobile Homes:
      1.   Every mobile home space within a mobile home park shall meet the
following requirements:
         a.   Minimum width: Fifty feet (50').
         b.   Minimum depth: One hundred feet (100').
      2.   Mobile homes within any park shall be placed so that no part of any
mobile home is closer than:
         a.   Ten feet (10') to any park street;
         b.   Ten feet (10') to any boundary line of the park; or
         c.   Twenty feet (20') to any part of any other mobile home or
structure. (Ord. 1522, 2-21-2017)
9-3-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   B.   Each day, any violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1522, 2-21-2017)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Zones Designated
10-1-2: Permits Required
10-1-3: Permit Costs
10-1-4: Stormwater Management
10-1-5: Existing Property
10-1-6: Board Of Appeals
10-1-7: Business Permit Requirements
10-1-8: Appeal Procedure; Variances
10-1-9: Penalty
10-1-1: ZONES DESIGNATED:
The city of Carmi, Illinois, is hereby divided into four (4) zones designated
as zone I, zone II, zone III, and zone IV.
   A.   Zone I is known and designated as the industrial zone, and all types of
business, including manufacturing and other industrial uses may be established,
maintained and carried on in said zone I.
   B.   Zone II is known and designated as the business zone, and all types of
business, excepting manufacturing and other industrial uses, may be
established, maintained and carried on in said zone II.
   C.   Zone III is known and designated as business zone A and all types of
business may be located, established, maintained and carried on in said zone
with the exception of the following:
Manufacturing or other industrial use; open air markets, businesses in
temporary structures, businesses which are seasonal as opposed to year round.
   D.   Zone IV is known and designated as the residential zone, and no
business or industry may be established, maintained or carried on in said zone
IV without a special use permit granted by the Carmi city council. (Ord. 1370,
2-20-2007)
10-1-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Construct, Alter, Remove, Demolish Building Or Structure: It shall be
unlawful to construct, alter, remove or demolish, or to commence the
construction, alteration, removal or demolition of a building or structure
without first filing with the city clerk an application in writing and
obtaining a formal permit.
No permit will be issued until an inspection by the city utility and street
departments has been completed and the appropriate heads of the utility
department have signed off on the permit application. In addition, no permit
will be issued until such a time that a sign off has been obtained by the
company providing natural gas service to the property for which application is
being made.
In addition to other information from time to time required by the council, and
requested in the blanks for application, the applicant shall give the following
information:
      1.   Property owner's name and address.
      2.   Adjoining property owners' names and addresses.
      3.   Location of buildings, power lines, water lines, sewer lines,
natural gas lines, storm sewers, sidewalks, streets, alleys, and any other
pipelines or easements relative to the new structure or improvement.
      4.   A description of the construction or improvement. (Ord. 1370, 2-20-
2007)
   B.   Tree And Shrub Planting: It shall be unlawful to plant trees or
shrubbery on or near the city right of way, under power lines, or over or near
utility services without first filing with the city clerk an application in
writing and obtaining a formal permit. No fee for the permit will be required.
(Ord. 1377, 8-6-2007)
10-1-3: PERMIT COSTS:
Permit costs under this zoning ordinance shall be as follows:
   A.   Permits to demolish a residence: no fee.
   B.   Permits to demolish a business building: $100.00, must be paid at time
of application.
   C.   Permits to construct, alter, or improve a residential building or
structure under Section 10 of Ordinance 1370: no fee.
   D.   Permit to construct, alter, or improve a business building or structure
under Section 10 of Ordinance 1370: $100.00, must be paid at time of
application. (Ord. 1370, 2-20-2007; amd. Ord. 1622, 2-20-2024)
10-1-4: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
Adequate stormwater retention and release/drainage facilities shall be
installed in all subdivisions accepted after the passage date hereof, and on
the site of all commercial and industrial developments hereafter constructed,
and located within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Carmi zoning ordinance,
to avoid changes in stormwater runoff onto adjacent properties. All stormwater
detention and release facilities shall be subject to the approval of the city
engineer, and will be governed by the applicable rules and regulations of the
Illinois department of transportation (IDOT), relating to the issuance of
drainage permits for private drainage systems that discharge into state
highways, as amended from time to time. Said IDOT rules and regulations, and
all future amendments and modifications of those rules and regulations, are
incorporated by reference, as if fully set forth herein.
In each case, the applicant's proposed facilities for stormwater detention and
release must be studied and designed by a certified engineer at the applicant's
expense and constructed to prevent overtaxing or otherwise damaging of Carmi's
drainage system, and the drainage systems of adjoining landowners. A copy of
the certified engineer's runoff study must accompany the building permit
application. (Ord. 1370, 2-20-2007)
10-1-5: EXISTING PROPERTY:
It is not the intent or purpose of this chapter to require the alteration or
change of any use of property existing as of the passage date hereof; and it is
expressly provided that any small business, commercial or professional venture,
endeavor or project which does not: a) require, have or use employees, b)
require a building other than a residence occupied as a bona fide home, or a
major conversion or alteration (50 percent or more) thereof; c) cause or create
electrical or other interference which affects radio or television reception in
the general area; d) create or cause unusual noise or odors; may be maintained
and carried on (solely by the individual proprietor) in zone IV; provided that
such property is at all times maintained to the same standard of neatness and
beauty as other residential property in the general area. (Ord. 1370, 2-20-
2007)
10-1-6: BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Carmi city council shall serve as the appeals board for all matters
relating to zoning in the city of Carmi. (Ord. 1370, 2-20-2007)
10-1-7: BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required: From and after the passage date hereof no business of any
nature shall be located, established, carried on within the corporate limits of
the city of Carmi without first securing a permit for such business, in
accordance with the further provisions of this chapter; provided however that
this section does not apply to businesses being carried on as of the passage
date hereof.
   B.   Application: Any individual, firm or corporation desiring to locate,
establish and carry on a business within the corporate limits of the city of
Carmi shall make application for a permit, in duplicate, upon blanks to be
furnished by the clerk. In addition to other information from time to time
required by the council, and requested in the blanks for application, the
applicant shall give the following information:
      1.   His correct name and address.
      2.   Structure of the business organization, whether individual,
partnership, corporation, trust, etc.
      3.   Names and addresses of all persons associated with him, as owners,
or in the case of a corporation, officers and directors.
      4.   Nature of the business to be conducted.
      5.   Address in Carmi where such business is to be established.
Such application shall be under oath and filed with the clerk, who is
designated as the enforcing officer for this chapter.
   C.   Determination: When an application for a permit to establish and carry
on a business is filed with the clerk, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection B of this section, the clerk shall at once transmit one copy thereof
to the city council. The clerk shall, within five (5) days from the date the
permit application is filed, determine:
      1.   If the address where such business is to be located is within a zone
permitting same, and
      2.   Whether or not such business violates, or may be reasonably
anticipated to violate, any ordinance of the city or law of the state.
If such determination finds the application is permissible under the provisions
of this chapter, the permit shall be issued by the clerk. Should the clerk
determine the application is not permissible under the provisions of this
chapter, the same shall be refused by him and a report of such denial, with
reasons, shall be filed by him with the city council. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed or considered as restricting or prohibiting the locating and
establishing of businesses within the city of Carmi, Illinois, for any reason
or reasons other than those permitted by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11
division 13 and other applicable laws and ordinances. (Ord. 1370, 2-20-2007)
10-1-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE; VARIANCES:
   A.   Procedure: Appeals may be taken by any person who feels aggrieved by
the action taken by the clerk upon any application for a permit, and such
appeal may include a request for variation of the zoning classifications when
in the opinion of the appellant a variation should be granted. All appeals
shall be made to the Carmi city council and shall be presented in accordance
with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-5, 11-13-6 and 11-
13-12. The powers conferred by such statute for final action upon and decision
of matters appealed is expressly retained by the council; and although
variations are permissible, same may only be granted by ordinance, and in
conformity with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-6 and 11-13-10.
   B.   Notice; Conduct Of Hearing: When an appeal has been taken, as
authorized by subsection A of this section the city council shall give the
notice and conduct the public hearing as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-6 and shall hear all evidence offered in support of and
against the proposition raised by the appeal. Within twenty (20) days following
the hearing, the city council shall report its findings and recommendations, by
filing the same with the clerk, in writing. At its next regular meeting
following the filing of such findings and recommendations, or special meeting
called for that purpose, the council shall consider the same, and final action
by the council shall be concluded within sixty (60) days from the date of the
first consideration thereof.
   C.   Action On Appeal: After receipt of the findings and recommendations of
the city council, and within the time prescribed in subsection B of this
section, the council shall, without further public hearing: 1) adopt any
proposed variation by enactment of an ordinance, or 2) refer the proposition
back for further consideration, or 3) refuse the variation requested by
adoption of resolution to that effect. No variation not recommended by the city
council may be granted unless there is a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all aldermen,
in favor thereof.
   D.   Judicial Review Of Final Decision: The final decision and action of the
council is subject to judicial review as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-13. (Ord. 1370, 2-20-2007)
10-1-9: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit as stated in section
10-1-2 of this chapter shall be deemed to be a violation of the zoning
ordinance. Upon due investigation, the city clerk may determine that a
violation of the zoning ordinance exists. The city clerk shall notify the
violator in writing of such violation.
   A.   If the violator fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city of Carmi shall make application to the circuit court for
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense; and
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which the violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The city of Carmi shall record a notice of violation on the title to
the property.
The city of Carmi is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension of
the building project. The stop work order shall be in writing, indicate the
reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to resolve
the circumstances requiring the stop work order. (Ord. 1377, 8-6-2007)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Definitions
11-1-2: Submission Of Plans And Plats
11-1-3: Application Of Provisions
11-1-4: Design Standards
11-1-5: Preliminary Plan
11-1-6: Final Plat
11-1-7: Agreements Between Owner And Subdivider
11-1-8: Required Land Improvements
11-1-9: Inspection At Subdivider's Expense
11-1-10: Variations And Exceptions
11-1-11: Enforcement
11-1-12: Record Of Plats
11-1-13: City Policy; Compliance Required
11-1-14: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A strip of land, not less than fifteen feet (15') nor more than twenty
five feet (25') in width, along the side of or in the rear of properties,
intended to provide access to those properties.
BUILDING LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so designated on
the plat of the proposed subdivision.
COLLECTOR STREETS: Those which are used to carry traffic from minor streets to
major streets and highways, including the principal entrance streets to a
residential development and circulation streets within such development.
CROSSWALKWAY: A strip of land dedicated to public use which is reserved across
a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast, through moving traffic on the
primary streets.
MINOR STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
PRIMARY OR MAJOR STREET: A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery between the various sections of the
city of Carmi.
PUBLIC STREET: All primary, secondary and minor streets which are shown on the
subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
SECONDARY OR COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance streets
of residential developments and streets for circulation within such a
development.
STREET: An area other than an alley which serves or is intended to serve as a
vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
public street.
SUBDIVIDER: The person or persons responsible for carrying out all appropriate
requirements outlined in this chapter for the subdividing of land.
SUBDIVISION: Either: a) the division of land into two (2) or more lots, sites
or parcels of three (3) acres or less in area; b) the establishment or
dedication of a road, highway, street or alley through a tract of land
regardless of its area; or c) the resubdivision of land heretofore divided or
platted into lots, sites, or parcels; provided, however, that the sale or
exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining property owners, where such
sale or exchange does not create additional lots, shall not be considered a
"subdivision".
UTILITY EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by
the city of Carmi or any private utility for the purpose of installing lines
underground or poles aboveground for electricity, telephone, storm water and
sanitary sewer, or gas or other utility. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-2: SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND PLATS:
Whenever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within the
incorporated limits of the city, the subdivider thereof or his agent shall
submit both a preliminary plan and a final subdivision plat to the city
council. Said plans and plats, proposed improvements, and all procedures
relating thereto, shall in all respects be in full compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Certification And Approval Of Plans And Plats: No land in the city
shall, after the effective date hereof, be subdivided into lots, or lots and
blocks, or plat thereof filed for record, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the land, nor any improvements made to streets, alleys or
sidewalks until the plat or plans of the subdivision or street improvements
shall have been certified to and approved by action of the city council. This
approval must be in writing and placed on the original tracing of the final
plat according to the procedure outlined hereafter.
   B.   Sale Of Lots: No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision
shall be offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be
made or given until such subdivision plans have been officially approved by the
city.
   C.   Improvements: No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, storm
water drainage, sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service, or grading,
paving or grading of streets shall hereafter be made within any subdivision by
any owner or his agent until the plats for the subdivision and also the plans
for improvements thereto have been officially approved by the city council.
   D.   Variances And Exceptions: The city council may vary and make exceptions
as set forth herein in instances where there is sufficient evidence, in its
opinion, of hardship caused by topographic conditions, or where any other
reasonable deterrents prevail.
   E.   Division Into Lots: Whenever the area is divided into lots containing
one to three (3) acres, inclusive, and there are indications that such lots
will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall
be given to the street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that
additional minor streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement
of smaller lots. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Street Plan: The subdivision of land, including the arrangement,
character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets, alleys, or other
land to be dedicated for public use shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public
convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of the land to be served by such streets.
   B.   Minimum Street Standards: All rights of way shall conform to the
following minimum dimensions in all subdivisions hereafter laid out in the
city:
 
Primary or major street 80 feet wide
Secondary street        60 feet wide
Collector street        60 feet wide
Minor street            50 feet wide
Crosswalkways           8 feet
Utility easement        10 feet
Turnaround              50 foot radius
 
      1.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
      2.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
      3.   Visibility 1 : Clear visibility in either direction, measured along
the centerline of the street, shall be provided for at least three hundred feet
(300') on all primary streets, two hundred feet (200') on secondary streets,
and at least one hundred feet (100') on all other streets. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-
1984; amd. 2006 Code)
      4.   Safe Traffic Flow: It must be evidenced that all street
intersections and confluences encourage safe traffic flow.
      5.   Alleys:
         a.   Alleys will be required in commercial and industrial districts.
         b.   Alleys shall be optional in residential areas except where
topographical or other conditions may necessitate their use.
      6.   Cul-De-Sacs:
         a.   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be three hundred feet
(300') measured along the centerline from the intersection at the origin
through the center of the circle to the end of the right of way.
         b.   Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape
with a minimum diameter of one hundred feet (100') with the entrance radius
having a minimum of twenty five feet (25').
      7.   Half Streets:
         a.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of this chapter.
         b.   Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided,
the other half of the street shall be planned within such tract.
      8.   Reserved Strips: No strip or area shall be reserved along any
portion of a street, half street, or alley which will prevent adjacent property
owners access thereto.
      9.   Street Designations:
         a.   No street designations may be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the designations of existing streets.
         b.   Existing street designations must be projected wherever possible.
(Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
      10.   Entrance To State Highway: If the tract of land proposed to be
subdivided or any part thereof lies adjacent to a highway over which the state
department of transportation has jurisdiction with respect to maintenance and
upkeep thereof, and an entrance or entrances are desired from such highway to
lots, streets, roadways or alleys in such proposed subdivision, the subdivider
shall submit to the city council a written permit from the said state
department of transportation, granting him permission to obtain and construct
such an entrance or entrances. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Easements:
      1.   Width: Easements of not less than ten feet (10') in width shall be
provided on each side of all rear lot lines, and along side lot lines, where
necessary, for conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, and gas, water and other
mains. Easements of greater width may be required along or across lots when
necessary for extension of main sewers or other utilities or where both water
and sewer lines are located in the same easements. A two foot (2') easement
shall be required on one side of and adjacent to an alley to accommodate pole
lines.
      2.   Watercourses: Whenever any subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, the subdivider shall, at his own
expense, make adequate provision for straightening or widening the channel so
that it will properly carry the surface water, and shall also provide and
dedicate to the city an easement along each side of the stream, which easement
shall be for the purpose of widening, improving or protecting the stream. The
width of such easement shall not be less than twenty feet (20'), and the total
width of the easement shall be adequate to provide for any necessary channel
relocations and straightening.
   D.   Block Standards:
      1.   Length: The maximum lengths of blocks shall be one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500'). Blocks over eight hundred feet (800') may require
crosswalkways.
      2.   Shape: No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but
blocks must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision, and their
design must evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and public
areas.
   E.   Lot Standards:
      1.   Area: The minimum lot area shall be ten thousand (10,000) square
feet, and frontage on a street shall be ninety feet (90'). In residential
areas, no building shall be closer to the lot line than seven and one-half feet
(71/2').
      2.   Abutting Street: All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated street.
      3.   Side Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles or radial to the street line.
      4.   Double Frontage: Double frontage lots are forbidden except where
lots back upon a primary street (major thoroughfare), and in such instances,
vehicular access between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited or where
topography of the land might render subdivision otherwise unreasonable. Such
lots shall have an additional depth of at least ten feet (10') in order to
allow for a protective screen planting.
      5.   Abutting Watercourse: Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream shall have additional minimum width or depth as required to
provide an adequate building site. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-4-1G of this code for visibility at intersections.
11-1-5: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A.   Filing:
      1.   Submission To Council:
         a.   Any owner of land which is within the corporate limits of the
city wishing to divide the same into building lots for the purposes of sale or
assessment or both, or wishing to dedicate streets, alleys, or other lands for
public use shall first submit to the city council four (4) copies of the
preliminary plan and all other information as required in this section.
         b.   The preliminary plan shall be submitted to the city council at
least ten (10) days prior to the regular meeting of the council to receive
action thereon at that meeting.
      2.   Contents Of Application: The application shall specify the intent of
the subdivider with respect to land use, drainage, sewage disposal, water
supply, and street improvement proposed by the subdivider; what, if any,
restrictions exist or are to be placed on the property to be subdivided; and
the expected date of its development. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
      3.   Recommendations Of City Official: The appropriate city official
shall collaborate with the subdivider. Said official shall, within thirty (30)
days from receipt, submit his written recommendations for approval or
disapproval to the city council. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Contents Of Plan: The preliminary plan shall contain the following:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
         b.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
         c.   Names and addresses of developer and designer who made the plan.
         d.   Scale of plan, one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
larger.
         e.   Date.
         f.   North point.
      2.   Delineation Of Existing Conditions:
         a.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy
line and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-
1984)
         b.   Location, widths and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and
other public open spaces, or permanent easements and section and corporation
lines, within or adjacent to the tract and/or other relevant information
required by the appropriate city official. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006
Code)
         c.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract or adjacent to the tract, indicating pipe sizes,
grades, manholes and exact location.
         d.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or subdivided
land, showing names of subdivisions.
         e.   Layout of streets, widths of rights of way, and also the widths
of crosswalkways and easements.
         f.   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots.
         g.   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use by property owners in the subdivision.
         h.   Building setback lines, showing dimensions.
         i.   Easements for any and all public utilities where alleys are not
provided. Proper continuity for the utilities from block to block shall be
maintained.
         j.   Location, size and approximate grades of proposed sewers.
         k.   Proposed street grades.
         l.   Proposed location of water, storm and sanitary sewers, gas,
electric and telephone outlets.
         m.   Watercourses, drainageways, channels and streams, if any.
   C.   Qualifications For Approval: The following qualifications shall govern
approval of the preliminary plan:
      1.   Changes Or Revisions: The city council may recommend or require such
changes or revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the
community. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
      2.   Approval By City Official: Subsequent approval will be required of
the engineering proposals pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage
and sewage disposal, gas and electric service, street lighting, fire hydrants,
grading, gradients and roadway widths and the surfacing of streets by the
appropriate city official.
      3.   Land Subject To Flooding Or Containing Poor Drainage Facilities: No
plat will be approved for the subdivision of land which is subject to periodic
flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage facilities and which would
make adequate drainage of the streets impossible. However, if the subdivider
agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the appropriate city
official where concerned, make the area completely safe for residential
occupancy and provide adequate street drainage, the preliminary plan of the
subdivision may be approved. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
      4.   Tentative Approval; Time Constraints: The approval of a preliminary
plan by the city council is strictly tentative, involving merely the general
acceptability of the layout submitted. This approval shall be effective for a
maximum period of twelve (12) months, unless, upon application by the
developer, the city council grants an extension. If the final plat has not been
recorded within this time limit, the preliminary plan must again be submitted
for approval. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-6: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Filing:
      1.   Submission To Council: After approval of the preliminary plan by the
council, and the fulfillment of the requirements of this chapter, one tracing
of the final plat of the subdivision, drawn in ink on tracing cloth, not to
exceed twenty nine inches by thirty four inches (29" x 34") in size, shall be
submitted to the city council for approval.
      2.   Action By Council; Time Limit: Action must be taken by the city
council within thirty (30) days after the final plat has been submitted for
approval.
      3.   Recording With County; Time Limit: Upon approval by the city
council, the developer shall record the plat with the recorder of White County,
within six (6) months. If not recorded within this time, the approval shall be
null and void.
      4.   Signed Copies Required: One print of the approved preliminary plan,
signed by the mayor and the city clerk, shall be retained in the city clerk's
office. One signed copy is authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the
preparation of plans and specifications for the minimum improvements required
in this chapter and with the preparation of the final plat.
   B.   Contents Of Plat: The final plat and accompanying documents shall
contain the following:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   Name of subdivision.
         b.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
         c.   Names of owners and certification by a licensed surveyor.
         d.   Scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger
(shown graphically).
         e.   Date.
         f.   North point.
      2.   Delineation Of Existing Conditions:
         a.   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angles and
linear dimensions.
         b.   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and
adjoining the plat, and the exact location and widths of all crosswalkways.
Proposed street names shall be shown.
         c.   Certified survey showing dimensions to property lines and
accessibility to public streets.
         d.   Before the final plat of any subdivided area shall be approved
and recorded, the subdivider shall furnish profiles of all streets and alleys
in the proposed subdivision, drawn to a horizontal scale of one inch equals
fifty feet (1" = 50') and a vertical scale of one inch equals five feet (1" =
5'). Elevations shall be referred to a permanent recorded bench mark of the
city datum. Street grades for major streets shall comply with subsection 11-1-
8B1 of this chapter.
         e.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately described in
the plat.
         f.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision, by distances and angles.
         g.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings
and lengths of all arcs.
         h.   All easements for rights of way provided for public services and
utilities.
         i.   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths.
         j.   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and at points
of tangency of curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision. Permanent
monuments shall be of concrete with minimum dimensions of four inches by four
inches (4" x 4") and thirty six inches long (36"), with a steel dowel three-
eighths inch (3/8") in diameter, at least two and one-half inches (21/2") in
length, imbedded so that the top of the dowel shall be flush with the surface
and at the center of the monument. All lot corners not marked by concrete
monuments shall be marked by galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel
bars at least eighteen inches (18") in length and not less than one-half inch
(1/2") in diameter. The top of the pipe or bar is to be set level with the
established grade of the ground. The location of all concrete and iron
monuments shall be shown on the map.
         k.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any area to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners.
         l.   Building setback lines, if any, accurately shown by dimensions.
         m.   Protective covenants, if any, which meet with the approval of the
city council shall be lettered on the final plat.
         n.   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and markers shown
thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct.
         o.   Notarized certification, by owner or owners, or by any mortgage
holder on record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas.
         p.   Certifications showing that all taxes and special assessments due
on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full.
         q.   Proper form for the approval of the city council with space for
signatures.
         r.   Approval by signatures of city, county and state officials
concerned with the specification of utility installations.
         s.   This approval of the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute
or effect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way or space shown on the plat. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-7: AGREEMENTS BETWEEN OWNER AND SUBDIVIDER:
The final plat to be filed of record shall be accompanied by a statement signed
by the owner and subdivider, setting forth the following: (Ord. 1078, 8-20-
1984)
   A.   Plans For Improvements: Plans and specifications for such improvements
previously approved by the appropriate city official clearly describing the
same. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Installation Of Improvements: Agreement executed by the owner and the
subdivider wherein they agree to make and install the improvements provided for
in section
11-1-8 of this chapter in accordance with the plans and specifications
accompanying the final plat.
   C.   Petition By Adjoining Property Owners: In lieu of the provisions of
subsection B of this section, in the event that a dated petition is presented
to the city council containing the signatures of the recorded owners
representing a majority of the frontage along the improvement, requesting the
city council to install improvements provided for in subsections 11-1-8A, B and
C of this chapter, then the requirements of subsection B of this section may be
waived. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-8: REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS:
No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a statement signed
by the appropriate city official certifying that the improvements described in
the subdivider's plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the
minimum requirements of all ordinances of the city and that comply with the
following:
   A.   Sewers:
      1.   Sanitary Sewers: Sanitary sewers shall be installed to comply with
specifications established by the appropriate city official and shall be
connected to the sanitary sewer system of the city, or to a specially
constructed sanitary sewage disposal plant in accordance with plans acceptable
to the city, all subject to environmental protection agency and other
governmental rules and regulations. Lots which cannot reasonably be served by a
public sanitary sewer system shall have minimum area required by the Illinois
department of public health for septic system permits. In case of unusual soil
conditions or other physical factors which may impair the health and safety of
the neighborhood in which a subdivision may be located, upon recommendation of
the state department of public health, the city council may increase lot area
requirements as may be necessary.
      2.   Storm Sewers: When required by the appropriate city official, storm
sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision which shall be
separate and independent of the sanitary sewer system which shall provide an
adequate outlet, or connection with the storm sewer system of the city. When
storm sewers are not installed, adequate facilities for the removal of surface
water shall be provided throughout the entire subdivision. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-
1984; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Street Improvements:
      1.   Grades: Grades of streets shall not be in excess of six percent (6%)
on primary or secondary streets, nor in excess of eight percent (8%) on other
streets, nor have a minimum grade of less than five-tenths of one percent
(0.5%).
      2.   Roadway Specifications And Widths: All streets within the corporate
limits of the city shall be improved with all weather pavement of an approved
type, integral concrete curbs and gutters, or V-type gutters, to an overall
width in accordance with the following dimensions:
 
Type Of Street           Minimum Roadway Width (Between Backs Of Curb)
Primary or major streets 42 feet
Secondary streets        32 feet
Collector streets        32 feet
Minor streets            32 feet
Cul-de-sacs              32 feet
 
      3.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters on minor residential streets
shall be of the integral rolled type unit, not less than eighteen inches (18")
in overall width, and not less than seven inches (7") thick where curb abuts
the street pavement, or V-type gutters may be used. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
      4.   Storm Water Inlets: Storm water inlets shall be provided within the
roadway improvement at points specified by the appropriate city official. (Ord.
1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
      5.   Curb Corners: All curb corners shall have a radii of not less than
fifteen feet (15') and at important intersections, not less than twenty five
feet (25').
   C.   Public Utilities:
      1.   Utility Lines: All utility lines for telephone and electric services
shall be placed in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles, but not
on the lot line or lot corner.
      2.   Underground Lines: Where telephone and electric service lines are
placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area, said conduits or
cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways, in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services. Further, all
transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to
the public, and shall not be on the lot line or lot corner. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-
1984)
   D.   Sidewalks: Concrete sidewalks four feet (4') in width shall be
constructed along both sides of every street shown on the plat of a subdivision
that is located within the corporate limits of Carmi. Such sidewalks shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements and under the supervision of
the appropriate city official. Sidewalks may be deleted subject to city council
approval. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
   E.   Street Lighting: Provisions shall be made by the city for the adequate
lighting of public streets within the proposed subdivision, in accordance with
the standards and requirements established by the governing authorities.
   F.   Privately Developed Facilities: Where the subdivision is to contain
sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply systems, park areas, or other
physical facilities which will not be maintained by existing public agencies,
provision should be made by trust agreement, which is a part of the deed
restrictions and which is acceptable to the proper public agencies, for
jurisdiction over the continuous maintenance, supervision, operation and
reconstruction of such facilities by the lot owners in the subdivision. (Ord.
1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-9: INSPECTION AT SUBDIVIDER'S EXPENSE:
All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of this
chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the city
personnel or a duly designated deputy. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-10: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Show Cause Of Hardship: When the subdivider can show that a provision
of this chapter, if strictly adhered to, would cause unnecessary hardship and
when, in the opinion of the city council, because of topographical or other
conditions peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the
intent of such provision, the city council may recommend a variance or
modification.
   B.   Application For Variance: The subdivider shall apply in writing for
such variance or modification of the action.
   C.   Attachment To Final Plat: Any variance or modification thus authorized
shall be attached to and made a part of the final plat. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-11: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the county recorder's
office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the manner
prescribed by this chapter. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-12: RECORD OF PLATS:
All of the plats of subdivision, after the same have been submitted and
approved as provided in this chapter, shall be copied upon a book of plats of
the city and shall be filed and kept by the city among the records of the city.
(Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-13: CITY POLICY; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The city council hereby declares that it is the policy of the council not to
hereafter annex any subdivision outside of the city unless there is compliance
with this chapter, and that it is the policy of the city not to extend any
municipal electric, water or sewer service to any subdivision inside or outside
of the city limits unless there is compliance with this chapter, and it is the
policy of the city not to accept any streets or alleys dedicated for public use
unless there is compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984)
11-1-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Public Improvements: Any person who constructs any public improvement
or portion thereof in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Sale Or Lease Of Lots: Whoever shall sell or offer for sale, lease or
offer for lease, while this chapter is in effect, any lot or block within the
incorporated limits of the city, or any additions thereto, or any resubdivision
of any lot or block therein, before compliance with all of the requirements of
this chapter, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each lot, block or part thereof so disposed of, offered
for sale or leased. (Ord. 1078, 8-20-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: Base Flood Elevation
12-1-4: Duties Of The Floodplain Coordinator
12-1-5: Development Permit
12-1-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
12-1-7: Protecting Buildings
12-1-8: Subdivision Requirements
12-1-9: Public Health And Other Standards
12-1-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
12-1-11: Variances
12-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-13: Penalty
12-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city of
Carmi by the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
12-1-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Carmi, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Carmi, or that may be annexed into
the city of Carmi that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the city of Carmi are generally identified as such on panel
number(s) 231, 232, 233, 234, and 250 of the countywide flood insurance rate
map of White County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated February 16, 2012. Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding
as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated White County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Carmi or that may be annexed
into the city of Carmi are generally identified as such on the flood insurance
rate map prepared for White County by the federal emergency management agency
and dated February 16, 2012.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Little Wabash River shall be as
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of White County prepared
by FEMA and dated February 16, 2012. The floodways for each of the remaining
floodplains of the city of Carmi shall be according to the best data available
from the federal, state, or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM: Illinois department of natural resources/office
of water resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary area of
six hundred forty (640) acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of
any stream serving a tributary area of six thousand four hundred (6,400) acres
or more in a rural area. Construction on these streams requires a permit from
the department. (Ill. adm. code title 17, part 3700.30.) The department may
grant approval for specific types of activities by issuance of a statewide
permit which meets the standards defined in section
12-1-6 of this chapter.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement, was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage during a ten (10) year period equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place during a ten (10) year period in which
the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Little Wabash River
and unnamed tributary to Little Wabash River shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance study of White County
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated February 16,
2012.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of White County.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of White
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated White County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city of Carmi or that may be annexed into the city of Carmi shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of White
County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated February
16, 2012. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-4: DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN COORDINATOR:
The floodplain coordinator shall be responsible for the general administration
of this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city of Carmi meet the requirements
of this chapter. Specifically, the floodplain coordinator shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
12-1-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
12-1-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
12-1-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
12-1-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
12-1-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
12-1-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
12-1-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the floodplain coordinator. The floodplain coordinator
shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the floodplain
coordinator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to
be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the
base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not
identified as floodplain on the current flood insurance rate map, is subject to
the provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be
shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and
which has not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
The floodplain coordinator shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
The floodplain coordinator shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit not required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
floodplain coordinator shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources statewide permit number 2;
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 3;
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 4;
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit
number 5;
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities such as underground utility lines,
light poles, signposts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding seventy (70) square feet and
raising buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any
other activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6;
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7;
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8;
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9;
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10;
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11;
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12;
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 13;
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
section
12-1-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten (10) year period. If substantially
improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the flood
protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten (10) year period. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within twenty four (24) months of the date the damage occurred.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
(4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred seventy six (576) square feet (24 feet x 24 feet).
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The mayor and city council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
12-1-6 and
12-1-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
12-1-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
12-1-6 and
12-1-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-
2011)
12-1-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the city of Carmi shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the city council for a
variance. The city council shall review the applicant's request for a variance
and shall submit its recommendation to the mayor and city council. The mayor
and city council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   Conditions: No variance shall be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   Notification: The city council shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of
section
12-1-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Historic Structures:
      1.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
12-1-6 and
12-1-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         b.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure
being removed as a certified historic structure.
   D.   Agriculture: Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall
be decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building's
unique circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as
well as those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat to
public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included for any
variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at grade and
wet floodproofed:
      1.   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farmhouses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      2.   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community's flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
      3.   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base flood
elevation, must be built with flood resistant materials in accordance with
section
12-1-7 of this chapter.
      4.   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with
section
12-1-7 of this chapter. All of the building's structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      5.   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with section
12-1-7 of this chapter.
      6.   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to the
100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters in accordance with subsection 12-1-7B of this chapter.
      7.   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of section
12-1-6 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
      8.   Wet floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain coordinator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of Carmi or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-2011)
12-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the city of Carmi may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
city of Carmi shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city of Carmi shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The city of Carmi shall record a notice of violation on the title of
the property.
   B.   The city of Carmi shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
The city of Carmi is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension of
the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing, indicate the
reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to resolve
the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the city council. Written notice of such hearing shall be
served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the city council shall
determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city of Carmi from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 1446, 11-21-
2011)
12-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the mayor and
city council to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance
program including ordinance 1364, May 3, 2006. However, this chapter does not
repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in
the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 1446,
11-21-2011)
