CARROLLTON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-668, passed 5-9-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 2
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor                     Michael Snyder
City Clerk                Donna Nonneman
City Treasurer            Diane Hendricks
City Council Members
Alderman Ward 1           Larry Gillingham
Alderman Ward 1           Peggy Clough
Alderwoman Ward 2         Bernadette Faul
Alderman Ward 2           Gary Witt
Alderman Ward 3           Dewain Freand
Alderman Ward 3           John Banghart
Chief of Police           James Buchanan
Director of Public Works  Stephen Rosentreter
Water/Sewer Billing Clerk Marty Gross
City Attorney             Todd Parish
City Engineers            Benton & Associates, Inc.
City Accountants          Scheffel Boyle
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 21-654
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A REVISED AND RECODIFIED CODE
   OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CARROLLTON, REVISING, AMENDING,
   RESTATING, RECODIFYING, AND COMPILING THE EXISTING ORDINANCES OF
   THE CITY; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT
   INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED; AND
   PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE
   WHEREAS, the present code of ordinances of the City of Carrollton are in
need of reorganization and recodification in order to continue to protect the
public peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality and its
citizens, and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the City to revise, amend, restate, recodify, and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one code of ordinances in pamphlet/book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council of the City have authorized a general
compilation, revision, and recodification of the code of ordinances of the City
and publication of such code of ordinances in pamphlet/book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF CARROLLTON, ILLINOIS
AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances and code of ordinances of the City of
Carrollton, as hereinafter revised, amended, restated, recodified, and compiled
in pamphlet/book form are hereby adopted and enacted as the Carrollton Code of
Ordinances and are a new and comprehensive Code of Ordinances for the City
through and including Ordinance No. 21-651 passed and approved by the corporate
authorities on September 9, 2021.
   Section 2.   This Code of Ordinances as adopted and enacted in Section 1 of
this ordinance and as fully set out herein and as attached hereto shall consist
of the following Titles: Titles I: GENERAL PROVISIONS, III: ADMINISTRATION, V:
PUBLIC WORKS, VII: TRAFFIC CODE, IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS, XI: BUSINESS
REGULATIONS, XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES, XV: LAND USAGE, and TABLE OF SPECIAL
ORDINANCES, the specific provisions of which are more fully listed in the Table
of Contents that follows on pages 1 through 4 of this code, with the contents
of each title being more fully indexed at the beginning of each Chapter of each
title of this code, said Chapters being organized by subject matter as they
pertain to the subject matter of each title.
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in this
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in this Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, platting or dedicating land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by this Code.
   Section 4.   The official copy of the Carrollton Code of Ordinances shall be
kept on file in the office of the City Clerk. It shall be the expressed duty of
the City Clerk or someone authorized by said Clerk to update the official copy
of the Code, to keep a record of the location and who is in possession of all
additional copies of the Code, and to prepare updates for all additional
copies, wherever located, whenever the Code is amended by any action of the
corporate authorities. The official copy of the Code shall be available for
inspection and use by the public only at City Hall under direction of the City
Clerk.
   Section 5.   This Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect as
provided in Section 6, and this code of ordinances shall be presumptive
evidence in all courts and places of the validity of the Code of Ordinances and
all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein contained, and of
the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, and
approved, and that any public hearings have been held and notices thereof as
required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet book form,
pursuant to law.
   PASSED and APPROVED this ninth day of December 2021.
                                              /s/ Michael Snyder
                                             MICHAEL SNYDER - MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Donna Nonneman
DONNA NONNEMAN - CITY CLERK
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Acceptance
   
10.19   Code alteration
   
10.20   Jurisdiction
   
10.21   Public utility ordinance
   
10.22   Court proceedings
   
10.23   Service by certified mail
   
10.24   Application
   
10.25   Liability of officers
   
10.26   License
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   This codification by and for the City of Carrollton shall be
designated as the “Code of Carrollton” and may be so cited.
   (B)   Upon the adoption by the City Council, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official revised code of ordinances of
the city. The revised code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the city
code and it is hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be
kept up-to-date as provided in §
10.09(B) under the direction of the City Attorney, acting for said City
Council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and article heading and to the general penalty clause relating thereto as well
as to the section itself when reference is made to this city code by title in
any legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any word in any section of this code, importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used.
      (2)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this
code by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender,
several matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies
corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided that, these rules of
construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which contains
any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter
or content may be repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-15)
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
      ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the
subject of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other
owner of property.
      CITY, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Carrollton,
Illinois, irrespective of its population or legal classification.
      CODE or THIS CODE. The Code of Ordinances of the City of Carrollton.
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and the City Council.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
      COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Carrollton, unless
otherwise indicated.
      COUNTY. Greene County, Illinois.
      COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Greene County.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
      COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
      DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
      ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
      EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
city”.
      EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
      FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the city for carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
      FISCAL YEAR. This shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on April 30
of the following year.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5))
      HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
      HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. This may include any road laid out by authority
of the United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state,
and all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
      ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter
amended.
      KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. This includes all persons, whether acting by
themselves, or as a servant, agent or employee.
      KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the
at or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal
nature.
      LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the city and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the City
Council in the employee agreement.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
      MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this
code which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
      MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
      NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. These terms import a want
of such attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission
as a prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
      OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
      OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICERS and EMPLOYEES.
         (a)   Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer or
employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words
“of the city” and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee of the city
having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated.
         (b)   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer
or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable
for any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the City Council to impose such a fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty.
      OFFICIAL TIME. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of city business, except during applicable daylight savings time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the city shall be set and run at
the OFFICIAL TIME prescribed by this definition.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      OWNER. When applied to a building or land shall include any part-owner,
joint-owner, tenant-in-common, joint-tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part
of such building or land.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation in his, her or its own capacity as administrator, conservator,
executor, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed by the Court.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code prescribing a
penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or any such word as applied to
corporations, it shall include the officers, agents or employees thereof who
are responsible for any violation of said section.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
      POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the city.
      POLICE FORCE. Such persons in the employ of a city as members of the
Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be appointed and sworn as
POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
      PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government;
the village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, this shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory and not discretionary.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use
of pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
      SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Art. VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
      STATE. The State of Illinois.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares,
public places and sidewalks.
      TENANT. As applied to a building or land, this shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
      THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
      UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Art. VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
      WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
      WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
      WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
this shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, this implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make
the omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. This may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the WRITTEN signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, by his or her proper mark.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone
is equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(Prior Code, § 1-1-16)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference
purposes only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-17)
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in the state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the day
succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of
repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the subchapter,
chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this
shall constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code.
      (2)   All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately
forwarded to the codifiers and the ordinance material shall be prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code.
      (3)   Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall
be inserted in each individual copy of the code on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application and, to this end, the provisions are severable.
   (B)   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
severable and, if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-11)
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   (A)   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Such references shall also include the designee or agent of any such
officer or office, unless the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   (1)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all
of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein
enumerated and embraced.
      (2)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this
code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of
this code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being
still in force or are, by necessary implication, herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), from which
are excluded the following ordinances, which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-8)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances), as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140 /1 et seq.
§ 10.18 ACCEPTANCE.
   The city code as hereby presented in printed form shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of the state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent
effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.13(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-6
§ 10.19 CODE ALTERATION.
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace
or deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the City Council. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to him or her
through the office of the City Clerk. Said code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk upon
termination of office or separation of duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.20 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed within
the corporate limits of the city. Provisions of this code also apply to acts
performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law,
where the law confers power on the city to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 10.21 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCE.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities, shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or
by virtue of §
10.13(B) of this chapter, excepting as this code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-9)
§ 10.22 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether or not such former ordinance is expressly repealed, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done; any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred; any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance; in any way whatever to affect any claim
arising under the former ordinance; in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done; or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter, shall
conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable.
      (2)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-10)
§ 10.23 SERVICE BY CERTIFIED MAIL.
   In all actions for violation of any municipal ordinance, where the fine
would not be in excess of $750 and no jail term could be imposed, service of
summons may be made by the Clerk by certified mail, return receipt requested,
whether service is to be within or without the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.1
§ 10.24 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to
every section of this code, the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
      (2)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code,
where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any act which is of
a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
   (B)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided that, the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this code shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-23)
§ 10.25 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   The failure of any officer or employee to perform any official duty imposed
by this code shall not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed
for violation of this code unless a penalty is specifically provided for.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-24)
§ 10.26 LICENSE.
   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him or her by the city may be revoked by the court
or by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-25)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
city, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code
shall be fined not less than $75, nor more than $750, for any one offense.
      (2)   Any minor or person designated a juvenile by the state convicted of
a violation of any section of this code shall be fined not less than $75, nor
more than $750, for any one offense, but may not be confined, except by
provisions of the Juvenile Court Act of the state, being 705 ILCS 405.
      (3)   Whoever commits an offense against the city or aids, abets,
counsels, commands, induces or procures its commission is punishable as a
principal.
      (4)   Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which, if directly
performed by him or her or another, would be an offense against the city is
punishable as a principal.
      (5)   All municipal ordinance offenses may be satisfied without a court
appearance by written plea of guilty and payment of the minimum fine, plus
court costs, unless a court appearance is required by the ordinance violated.
      (6)   A penalty imposed for the violation of any section of this code may
include or consist of a requirement that the defendant perform some reasonable
public service work such as, but not limited to, the picking up of litter in
public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-20)
   (C)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of any section of this code
(except Title VII and Ch. 93 of this code of ordinances) may settle and
compromise the claim by paying to the city the sum of $25 within ten days from
the time such alleged offense was committed or by paying to the City Clerk the
sum of $50 subsequent to said ten-day period and prior to such person being
issued a complaint or notice to appear.
      (2)   The tickets issued under this section shall be as a courtesy in
lieu of arrest. If the person accused of this violation does not settle the
claim, a complaint or notice to appear will be issued for that violation and
the person shall be subject to the penalties set forth in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
   Related penalty provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-7 and 5/1-2-8
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
33.   EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL CODE
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
37.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
38.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Corporate seal
   
30.002   Elections
   
30.003   Appointment of elected officials
   
30.004   Municipal officers; regulations
   
30.005   Resignation of appointed officials
   
30.006   Qualifications; elective office
   
30.007   Bonds of city officers
   
30.008   Liability insurance
   
30.009   Bidding and contract procedures
   
30.010   Salaries regulation
   
30.011   Claims presentation
   
30.012   Municipal year
   
30.013   Expenses; reimbursement
   
30.014   Official records
   
30.015   Federal old age and survivor’s insurance system
   
30.016   State Municipal Retirement Fund
   
30.017   Certificates of insurance
Ordinance Procedures
   
30.030   Attorney
   
30.031   Introduced
   
30.032   Vote required
   
30.033   Approval or veto
   
30.034   Reconsideration
   
30.035   Special meetings exception
City Council
   
30.050   Members
   
30.051   Regular meetings
   
30.052   Special meetings
   
30.053   Vacancy
   
30.054   Committees
   
30.055   Special committees
   
30.056   Quorum
   
30.057   Compelling attendance
   
30.058   Members refusing to attend
   
30.059   Rules of City Council
   
30.060   Agenda
Mayor
   
30.085   Election
   
30.086   Mayor Pro Tem; temporary Chairperson
   
30.087   Vacancy
   
30.088   Chief executive officer
   
30.089   Mayor’s signature
   
30.090   Appointment of officers
   
30.091   Supervise conduct of officers; removal of officers
   
30.092   Designation of officers’ duties
   
30.093   Formal occasions
   
30.094   General duties
   
30.095   Business License Commissioner
   
30.096   Local Liquor Commissioner
   
30.097   Health Commissioner
   
30.098   Deciding vote; Mayor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the city shall be the same as that heretofore
provided and used by the city. It shall be circular in form with the words
“City of Carrollton, Greene County, Illinois” in the exterior circle and the
words “April 17, 1883” in the center.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the city and in all other cases in which, by
law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the City Clerk who shall be the legal
custodian.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 30.002 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of 10 ILCS and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10
concerning municipal elections shall govern the conduct of the city elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected city officials shall
occur at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council in the month
of May following the general municipal election in April.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15
§ 30.003 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   No Alderman of the city, during the term of office for which he or she
is elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed by the
Mayor, except if such Alderman is granted a leave of absence from such office.
However, such Alderman may serve as a volunteer firefighter and receive
compensation for such service. Any appointment in violation of this section is
void.
   (B)   One member may serve on the Library Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15 and 75 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 30.004 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the city regardless of the time of creation of the
office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
   (B)   Qualifications; appointive office.
      (1)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive municipal office
unless that person is a qualified elector of the municipality or otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   The residency requirements do not apply, however, to municipal
engineers, health officers, attorneys or other officers who require technical
training or knowledge. The duties of the former position of City Collector have
been transferred to the City Treasurer. The Clerk has not been designated as
the collector.
   (C)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the City
Council upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Council, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (D)   Books delivered to successor.
      (1)   Every officer shall, upon going out of office, deliver to his or
her successor all books, papers, furniture and other things appertaining to
such office and which are the property of the city. Within five days after
notification and request, any person who has been an officer of a municipality
is required to deliver to his or her successor in office all property, books
and effects in his or her possession belonging to the municipality or
pertaining to the office he or she has held.
      (2)   Upon his or her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all
damages caused thereby and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to
the provisions of §
10.99(B) of this code of ordinances. He or she shall not receive his or her
final check until his or her code book and keys are turned over to the City
Clerk.
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the City Council.
   (F)   Fees; report of fees.
      (1)   No officer of the municipality shall be entitled to charge or
receive any fees as against the city. All officers of the city entitled to
receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof and make a report thereof
under oath to the City Council prior to the regular meeting of each month.
      (2)   In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the Treasury.
   (G)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the city shall perform
such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as the
City Council may provide by law.
   (H)   Conservators of peace.
      (1)   After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful
completion of a training course administered by the state’s Law Enforcement
Training Standards Board, the Mayor, Aldermen and police officers in
municipalities shall be conservators of the peace.
      (2)   Those persons and others authorized by ordinance shall have power:
         (a)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
         (b)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
         (c)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place or until they can be brought before the proper court;
and
         (d)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace
prescribed by the corporate authorities.
      (3)   All warrants for the violation of municipal ordinances or state
criminal law, directed to any person, may be served and executed within the
limits of a municipality by any police officer of the municipality. For that
purpose, police officers have all the common law and statutory powers of
sheriffs.
   (I)   Oath.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
 
“I,                                                   , do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
                                                         according to the best of my ability.”
 
      (2)   The Mayor and the Clerk shall have the power to administer this
oath or affirmation upon all lawful occasions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-22) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20, 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-15-25, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40
§ 30.005 RESIGNATION OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   Any officer of the city may resign from office. If such officer resigns, he
or she shall continue in office until his or her successor has been chosen and
has qualified. If there is a failure to appoint a city officer or the person
appointed fails to qualify, the person filling the office shall continue in
office until his or her successor has been chosen and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 30.006 QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the municipality and has resided in the
municipality at least one year next preceding the election.
   (B)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office if that
person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the
municipality or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of
any infamous crime, bribery, perjury or other felony.
   (C)   A person is not eligible for the office of Alderman unless that person
has resided in the municipality, at least one year next preceding the election
or appointment, except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-75(b).
(Prior Code, § 1-2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5
§ 30.007 BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of city officers required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)    Mayor: $50,000;
      (2)    City Treasurer: $50,000; and
      (3)    City Clerk: $50,000.
   (B)   Premium payment by city. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the city.
   (C)   Surety. The City Council shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the City Council, any one of the Aldermen or any
elected or appointed officer of the city appear as bondsman or security. If, by
mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by the City
Council or if any bondsman, after becoming such, is elected or appointed to any
city office, this section shall not act as a release of any such obligation
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 270/1
§ 30.008 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Purchase. The City Council shall have the power to purchase liability
insurance covering and insuring all municipal officers, employees and elected
officials; said insurance to cover incidents occurring while in the performance
of their duties, which insurance may insure, cover and protect any liability
which the municipal corporation, officer, employee or elected official may
incur. When the insurance has been purchased, the city shall be responsible for
all premiums and deductible charges called for by any valid liability insurance
policy covering the municipal corporation, officer, employee or elected
official.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   If the City Council elects not to purchase liability insurance
covering and insuring municipal officers, elected officials and employees as
provided in this section, then the city shall indemnify and cause to defend
municipal officers, elected officials and employees from any claim filed by an
individual, partnership or corporation when the claim is founded on any act or
omission of the municipal officers, elected officials or employees while in the
performance of their official duties, except the city shall not indemnify, but
shall defend, any municipal officer, elected official or employee from any
claim made by an individual, partnership or corporation wherein the claim
alleges that the municipal officer, elected official or employee acted
intentionally, maliciously or wantonly and further shall not indemnify or cause
to defend the officials or employees where the claim is directly or indirectly
related to the negligent care or use of a vehicle, as defined by state statute,
and the city shall not indemnify any municipal officer, elected official or
employee from any claim made by a municipal officer, elected official or
employee.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the city
shall not indemnify or cause to defend any municipal officers, elected
officials or employees if the municipal officers, elected officials or
employees have liability insurance insuring the municipal officers, elected
officials or employees from the alleged claim; however, the city shall
indemnify the municipal officer, elected official or employee the personal
deductible limits of his or her personal policy.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.
§ 30.009 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding required. Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or
special taxation and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials and
services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based whenever
possible on competitive bids.
   (B)   Formal contract procedure. All work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation and all purchases, orders or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein, when
the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $10,000, shall be purchased from the
lowest responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless competitive
bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Aldermen then holding office.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the city. The city shall
also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the public
bulletin board in the City Hall.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be purchased
and shall state where specifications may be secured and the time and place for
opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the City Council, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders
shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the
contract by the City Council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the City Council upon failure on his or her part to enter into a
contract within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the city and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)    Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
City Council or by a city employee, in which event a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The city shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to city. The city shall not accept the bid of a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other moneys
due the city.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in city. The City Council shall have the authority to
award contracts within the purview of this section.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder.
         (a)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder on
the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the city to accept.
         (b)   In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the City Council
shall consider:
            1.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
            2.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
            3.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
            4.   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
            5.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws
and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
            6.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
            7.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
            8.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
            9.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
            10.   Whether the bidder has furnished a certificate of insurance
indicating worker’s compensation and employers’ liability coverage and the
policy limits for such coverage.
      (3)   Performance bonds. The City Council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of less than the estimated value of $10,000 shall be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers and architects and any other profession whose ethical
code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures, may be entered into by the city without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies materials or services, the City Council
shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure, as herein set forth, at
the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials or services
regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The city shall have the authority to join with
other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the city would be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 5/8-9-1 and 5/8-9-2
§ 30.010 SALARIES REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed.
      (1)   No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
      (2)   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established
in the appropriation ordinance or annual budget.
      (3)   The salary of elected officials must be established in an ordinance
other than the appropriation ordinance at least 180 days before the beginning
of the terms of the officers whose compensation is to be filed.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5 and 5/3.1-50-10
§ 30.011 CLAIMS PRESENTATION.
   (A)   Presentation.
      (1)   All claims against the city for goods purchased, damaged or
originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and other
allowances that are fixed by ordinance, must be presented on or before the
first Monday of each month to the City Clerk.
      (2)   All such claims must be in writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the City Council from passing on any
claims not previously presented to the City Clerk if, in the opinion of the
Council, justice to the claimant requires it.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-29)
§ 30.012 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year of the city shall begin on May 1 of each year and shall
end on April 30 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2
§ 30.013 EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)    Definitions.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   The city shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meal, and
lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following
maximum allowable amounts:
      (1)   Travel. Internal Revenue Service’s standard mileage rate for use of
personal vehicle for business.
      (2)   Meals. Reimbursement rate not to exceed the U.S. General Services
Administration as outlined and updated annually at www.gsa.gov.
      (3)   Lodging. Reimbursement rate not to exceed the U.S. General Services
Administration as outlined and updated annually at www.gsa.gov unless approved
by Council prior to travel.
   (C)   Tip expenses are specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (D)   Alcohol expenses are specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (E)   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a
city employee or officer shall be authorized unless the “Travel, Meal, and
Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form”, attached to Ord. No. 17-618 and
made a part hereof, as Appendix A, has been submitted and approved. All
documents and information submitted with the form shall be subject to
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/11 et seq.).
   (F)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: (1) any officer or
employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations
adopted under division (B) above of this section; or (2) any member of the
corporate authorities of the city, may only be approved by roll call vote at an
open meeting of the corporate authorities of the city. However, in the event of
an emergency, or other extraordinary circumstances, the corporate authorities
may approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set forth above.
   (G)   The city shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or
officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities
which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from
the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   (H)   Any municipal officer is entitled to reimbursement for any reasonable
actual expenses, in addition to travel, meals, and lodging expenses as provided
in this section, incurred by him or her in the performance of his or her
official public duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-31) (Ord. 17-618, passed 2-9-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15
§ 30.014 OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   All official records, including the corporate seal, shall be kept in the
City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-32)
§ 30.015 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   Eligible employees shall mean all employees of the city, eligible under the
Federal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq., except persons elected to office by
popular election and also the City Treasurer and City Attorney. Withholdings
from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose provided in sections hereof
are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations and shall be paid
quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-33)
§ 30.016 STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The city does hereby elect to participate in the state’s Municipal
Retirement Fund.
   (B)   The city includes in its levy and appropriation ordinance provisions
for the levying of a special tax to pay the city’s cost of participating in the
Retirement Fund and appropriate therefrom funds to pay the cost of
participation.
   (C)   The City Council does hereby elect to exclude from participation in
the state’s Municipal Retirement Fund all officials and employees in positions
normally requiring performance of duty for less than 1,000 hours per year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-34) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 30.017 CERTIFICATES OF INSURANCE.
   All contractors and subcontractors doing work for the city shall first
provide a certificate of insurance indicating worker’s compensation and
employer’s liability coverage and the policy limits for such coverage.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-35)
ORDINANCE PROCEDURES
§ 30.030 ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to prepare such ordinances as may
be required by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
§ 30.031 INTRODUCED.
   When a proposed ordinance is introduced, it shall be read one time by title
only and referred to the proper committee unless the City Council shall
otherwise specifically direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
§ 30.032 VOTE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose and of any
resolution or motion to create any liability against a city or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all members then holding office on the City Council, including the
Mayor, unless otherwise expressly provided by the chapter or any other act
governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution or motion; provided that,
where the Council consists of an odd number of Aldermen, the vote of the
majority of the Aldermen shall be sufficient to pass an ordinance. The “yeas”
and “nays” shall be taken upon the question of the passage of the designated
ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the journal of the City
Council.
   (B)   In addition, the corporate authorities at any meeting may by unanimous
consent to take a single vote by “yeas” or “nays” on the several questions of
the passage on any two or more of the designated ordinances, orders,
resolutions or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single group.
   (C)   The single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under the
designation “omnibus vote” and, in such event, the Clerk may enter the words
“omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering names of the members of City Council voting “yea” and of those voting
“nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions
and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda.
   (D)   The taking of such single or omnibus vote and such entries of the
words “omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal shall be a sufficient
compliance with the requirements of this section to all intents and purposes
and with like effect as if the vote in each case had been separately by “yeas”
and “nays” on the question of the passage of each ordinance, order, resolution
and motion included in such omnibus group and separately recorded in the
journal. Likewise, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken upon the question of
the passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any Alderman
and shall be recorded in the journal.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40
§ 30.033 APPROVAL OR VETO.
   (A)   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against the
city, which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money or which
sell any city property and all ordinances passed by the City Council, shall be
deposited with the City Clerk. If the Mayor approves an ordinance or
resolution, the Mayor shall sign it. Those ordinances, resolutions and motions
which the Mayor disapproves shall be returned to the City Council, with the
Mayor’s written objections, at the next regular meeting of the City Council
occurring not less than five days after their passage. The Mayor may disapprove
of any one or more sums appropriated in any ordinance, resolution or motion
making an appropriation and, if so, the remainder shall be effective.
   (B)   However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution
or motion making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails to return any ordinance
or any specified resolution or motion with his or her written objections within
the designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of the
Mayor’s signature.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45
§ 30.034 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Every resolution and motion, specified in §§
30.030 through
30.033 of this chapter, and every ordinance that is returned to the City
Council by the Mayor shall be reconsidered by the City Council at the next
regular meeting following the regular meeting at which the Board receives the
Mayor’s written objection.
   (B)   If, after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Aldermen then holding
office on the City Council agree at that regular meeting to pass an ordinance,
resolution or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to approve it, then
it shall be effective.
   (C)   The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s veto shall be by
“yeas” and “nays” and shall be recorded in the journal.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50
§ 30.035 SPECIAL MEETINGS EXCEPTION.
   No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special
meeting unless there are present at the special meeting at least as many
Aldermen as were present when the vote was taken.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.050 MEMBERS.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and six Aldermen, two from each
of the three wards and their terms of office shall be for four years and until
their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(d) and 5/3.1-20-10
§ 30.051 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   All regularly scheduled City Council meetings shall be held in the
City Hall building on the second Thursday of the month at 7:00 p.m. City
workshop sessions may be scheduled upon consensus of the City Council
   (B)   When said meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall
be held as determined by consensus of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2) (Ord. 13-598, passed 8-14-2013; Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-
2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25
§ 30.052 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or any
three Aldermen by giving at least 48 hours’ notice thereof by delivering to
them personally written or printed notices of the time of such meeting at the
residences of the Aldermen; such notices shall be served by mail by the Chief
of Police or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   Said notices shall specify the purpose of said special meeting and the
business to be taken up at that time and place. Such notice shall be posted at
the City Hall and shall be provided to any local newspaper of general
circulation or any local radio or television station that has filed an annual
request for such notice.
   (C)   The notice shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as
said notice is given to the Mayor and members of the City Council; provided,
such news media has given the city an address within the city at which such
notice may be given.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25
§ 30.053 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy occurs, if more than 28 months remain in the term and the
vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before the general municipal election,
next scheduled under the General Election Law being 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50, the
office shall be filled for the remainder of the term at that general municipal
election. During the period from the time that the vacancy occurs until the
next election of Aldermen, the Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to the
office subject to the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(b)
§ 30.054 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees of the City Council are hereby
established, to-wit:
      (1)   Finance and Personnel;
      (2)   Water/Sewer;
      (3)    Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks, Ditches, and Trees;
      (4)   Public Improvements and Purchases;
      (5)   Traffic and Safety;
      (6)   Personnel; and
      (7)   Parks/Recreation.
   (B)   The committees shall be appointed annually by the Mayor.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be ex officio Chairperson of each and every standing
committee.
   (D)   So far as is practicable, reports of committees shall be in writing.
   (E)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the Council shall be
deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the same after
the report is made, upon the request of any two Aldermen present.
   (F)   All committee meetings are subject to the Open Meetings Act, being 5
ILCS 120/1 et seq. requirements and minutes shall be taken.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5) (Ord. 23-662, passed 7-25-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1 and 120/2.06 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35
§ 30.055 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Aldermen, as may be needed from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 30.056 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the corporate authorities
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, if no such
quorum attends such meeting of the Council, the Aldermen may adjourn from day
to day until a quorum is present; and shall have power to compel the attendance
of absent members, except when such members are physically unable to attend
such meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.057 COMPELLING ATTENDANCE.
   It shall be the duty of each and all Aldermen to attend all regular meetings
of the City Council and all special meetings when each has been duly notified
of the date and place of such meeting. If, at any special meeting duly called,
a quorum is not present, the Aldermen in attendance may adjourn the same to
some stated time. Any Alderman duly notified in writing by the City Clerk of
the time and place of such adjourned meeting and any Alderman who may have been
present when such adjournment was had who fails to attend the same shall be
fined $15 for each of such adjourned meetings as he or she failed to attend;
provided that, the foregoing shall not apply when any Alderman is absent from
such meeting or meetings because of sickness or unavoidable accident.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.058 MEMBERS REFUSING TO ATTEND.
   (A)   Any member of the City Council who shall neglect or refuse to attend
any meeting of the City Council, without good and sufficient excuse to be
passed upon by the City Council, shall be fined the sum of $25 for failure to
attend such meeting. No member shall receive compensation for failure to attend
said meeting under the provisions of §
30.051 of this chapter.
   (B)   No procedure is set forth in the statutes for determining that a
vacancy exists. Where a true question exists as to the presence of a vacancy, a
hearing should be held before the vacancy is declared. A registered letter
should be sent to the last known address of the person whose office is in
question.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50 and 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.059 RULES OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the City Council.
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order by presiding officer;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   The reading of the journal of the proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings and correction and approval of the same, unless
dispensed with by the Aldermen and correction of the journal of the proceedings
of previous meetings;
         (d)   Reports and communications from the Mayor and other city
officers;
         (e)   Visitors;
         (f)   Reports of standing committees;
         (g)   Reports of special committees;
         (h)   Presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions, orders
and ordinances by the Aldermen;
         (i)   Unfinished business; and
         (j)   Miscellaneous business.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the chair without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of presiding officer.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, may speak
to points of order in preference to other Aldermen and shall decide all
question of order, subject to appeal.
      (2)   In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the presiding
officer shall have the power to require that the chamber be cleared.
   (C)   Duties of members.
      (1)   While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member
shall walk across or out of the Council Chamber.
      (2)   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized
and named by the Chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the
motives of any other member’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Council shall address
that body.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
the member shall read such matter when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by consent of the presiding officer or unless three-fourths of the corporate
authorities agree that one’s right to debate should be limited to speak only
once and then not until every other Alderman desiring to speak shall have had
an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that, the proponent of the matter
under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close
debate.
      (2)   The City Council, by motion, may limit debate. The presiding
officer shall have the right to participate in debate. While a member is
speaking, no Alderman shall hold any private discussion, nor pass between the
speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of Aldermen to order. A member, when called to order by the
Chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat and the
order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to
the right to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the Chair.
      (1)   (a)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the
Chair and, if the appeal is seconded, the Alderman making the appeal may
briefly state his or her reason for the same and the Chair may briefly explain
his or her ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other
person shall participate in the discussion.
         (b)   The presiding officer shall have the right to participate in
debate.
      (2)   The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the
Chair be sustained?” If a majority of the Aldermen present vote “no”, the
decision of the Chair shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Council on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless he or she is personally interested in
the question, in which case, he or she shall take whatever steps are necessary
to ensure that his or her vote is not taken.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the City Council may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the
Aldermen present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of notions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate and
every motion in the Council, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing if required by a member and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Withdrawal of motions. After a motion or resolution is stated by the
presiding officer, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Aldermen, but
it may be withdrawn at any time before decision by consent of the Aldermen.
   (N)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Aldermen, by a majority vote of the Aldermen
present, may divide such question.
   (O)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Aldermen moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (P)   Taking and entering the votes; explanations of votes not permitted.
      (1)   If any member required it, the “yeas” and “nays” upon any question
shall be taken and entered in the journal; but the yeas and nays shall not be
taken unless called for prior to any vote on the question.
      (2)   When the Clerk has commenced to call the roll of the members for
the taking of a vote by yeas and nays, all debate on the question before the
City Council shall be deemed concluded and during the taking of the vote, no
member shall be permitted to explain his or her vote, but shall respond to the
calling of his or her name by the Clerk, by answering “yea” or “nay”, as the
case may be.
   (Q)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes by “yeas”
and “nays” shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or
her to the Chairperson for announcement and no vote shall be changed after the
tally list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (R)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (R)(1)(b), (R)(1)(d) and (R)(1)(e) above are to be
decided without debate.
   (S)    Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the City Council shall always be in order,
except:
         (a)   When an Alderman is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the “yeas” and “nays” are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The City Council may, at any time, adjourn over one or more regular
meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Aldermen authorized by law to be
elected.
   (T)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question and seconded, it shall be put on this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?” If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main question.
   (U)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion to lay the question on the table shall not be debatable,
but a motion to lay on the table and publish or with any other condition, shall
be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table; provided, two-thirds of the Aldermen vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question, nor such other pending question, shall be affected thereby.
   (V)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (W)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (X)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order;
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “strike out and insert”, the section to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question, nor such other pending
question, shall be affected thereby.
   (Y)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (Z)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible, and, if
accepted by the Aldermen by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (AA)    Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Aldermen who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that, where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (BB)   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all cases to which they
are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of
the Council.
   (CC)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the Aldermen entitled by law
to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or amended, unless by
concurrence of two-thirds of all the Aldermen entitled by law to be elected.
   (DD)   Censure of Aldermen; expulsion of Aldermen. Any Alderman acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner or who uses opprobrious, obscene and
insulting language to or about any member of the Council or who does not obey
the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the
members present or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all Aldermen elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15
§ 30.060 AGENDA.
   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation shall
be furnished to each member of the Council no later 48 hours preceding the
regular Council meeting. In the case of emergency matters, which could not have
been reasonably foreseen in sufficient time to comply with this section, a
revised agenda will be furnished to each member of the Council prior to the
opening of the Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-12) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02
MAYOR
§ 30.085 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until a
successor is elected and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-40)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-15-10
§ 30.086 MAYOR PRO TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   If the Mayor is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to perform
official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the office,
the corporate authorities shall elect one of their members to act as Mayor Pro
Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform the
duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor, but shall not be
entitled to vote both as Mayor Pro Tem and as an Alderman.
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, the corporate
authorities may elect one of their members to act as a temporary Chairperson.
The temporary Chairperson shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and
a right to vote only in the capacity as Alderman on any ordinance, resolution
or motion.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-41)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35
§ 30.087 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at that general municipal
election. The City Council shall elect one of its members as acting Mayor, who
shall perform the duties and shall possess all the rights and powers of the
Mayor until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-42)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 30.088 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall see to
the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. The Mayor shall preside over the
meetings of the City Council and perform such duties as may be required of him
or her by statute or law. The Mayor shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and city employees; provided, however, his or her control is
subject to the power of the City Council to prescribe the duties of various
officers and employees. The Mayor shall have the power and authority at any
reasonable time to inspect all books, papers and records pertaining to city
affairs and kept by any officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-43)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10 and 5/3.1-35-20
§ 30.089 MAYOR’S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all city warrants, commissions, permits and
licenses granted by authority of the City Council, except as otherwise provided
and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or her
official signature.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to
any written instrument that requires the Mayor’s signature. The Mayor must send
written notice of this designation to the City Council, stating the name of the
person whom he or she has selected and what instrument the person will have
authority to sign.
      (2)   A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so
designated with the signature underneath the signature of the person so
designated shall be attached to the notice. The notice with the signature
attached shall be recorded in the journal of the City Council and then filed
with the City Clerk. When the signature of the Mayor is placed on a written
instrument at the direction of the Mayor in the specified manner, the
instrument, in all respects, shall be as binding on the city as if signed by
the Mayor in person.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-44)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30
§ 30.090 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, all officers
of the city whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the municipality.
   (B)   Filling vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council, all officers of the city whose appointment will
not otherwise be provided for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any
office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to fill,
the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the City Council, communicate
to it the name of the appointee to such office and pending the concurrence of
the City Council in such appointment, the Mayor may designate some suitable
person to discharge the functions of such office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-45)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5
§ 30.091 SUPERVISE CONDUCT OF OFFICERS; REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the city and
see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their
respective offices.
   (B)   Except where otherwise provided by statute, the Mayor may remove any
officer appointed by the Mayor under this code, on any written charge, whenever
the Mayor is of the opinion that the interests of the municipality demand
removal. The Mayor shall report the reasons for the removal to the corporate
authorities at a meeting to be held not less than five days, nor more than ten
days, after the removal.
   (C)   If the Mayor fails or refuses to report to the corporate authorities
the reasons for the removal or if the corporate authorities by a two-thirds
vote of all members authorized by law to be elected disapprove of the removal,
the officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which the officer
was removed.
   (D)   The vote shall be by “yeas” and “nays”, which shall be entered upon
the journal of the corporate authorities. Upon restoration, the officer shall
give a new bond and take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a
second time for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-46)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10
§ 30.092 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the City Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the power
to delegate to any appointive officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-47)
§ 30.093 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions, but in the absence or inability to attend any such function, the
Mayor may select any other city officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-48)
§ 30.094 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law and shall
take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed. The Mayor, from
time to time, may and annually shall give the City Council information relative
to the affairs of the city and may recommend for its consideration such
measures as he or she believes expedient.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-49)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5
§ 30.095 BUSINESS LICENSE COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as License Commissioner to issue and revoke
any and all business licenses as prescribed by law, with the advice and consent
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-50)
§ 30.096 LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as Local Liquor Commissioner with all the
powers to license and/or revoke any city liquor license according to state and
city laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-51)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2
§ 30.097 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health Commissioner with all powers to
abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the city authority as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-52)
§ 30.098 DECIDING VOTE; MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
   (B)   The Mayor shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion,
except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Aldermen has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Aldermen elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by state statute to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion.
   (C)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Alderman, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote
in his or her capacity as acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-53)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   City Engineer
   
31.002   Director of Public Works
   
31.003   Wards
   
31.004   Management association
   
31.005   Salaries of officials
City Clerk
   
31.020   Elected
   
31.021   Vacancy
   
31.022   Publication of ordinances; Council minutes; records
   
31.023   Delivery of papers to officers
   
31.024   Preparation of documents, commissions and licenses
   
31.025   Report of licenses
   
31.026   Delivery of licences
   
31.027   Administration of oaths
   
31.028   Outstanding bonds
   
31.029   Elections
   
31.030   Treasurer’s report
   
31.031   Successor
   
31.032   Notification to persons appointed to office
   
31.033   Other duties
   
31.034   Submit appropriation to City Council
   
31.035   Deputy Clerk
City Treasurer
   
31.050   Finance Department and Officer established
   
31.051   Finance Committee
   
31.052   Appointment
   
31.053   Money; warrants; accounts; payments
   
31.054   Warrant register
   
31.055   Personal use of funds
   
31.056   Bond
   
31.057   Special assessments
   
31.058   Bookkeeping
   
31.059   Statements
   
31.060   Report delinquent officers
   
31.061   Year-end report
   
31.062   Deposit of funds
Judiciary
   
31.075   Appointment of Attorney
   
31.076   Duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   Appointment. With the advice and consent of the City Council, the
Mayor may appoint an engineer for the city who shall serve for the term of the
Mayor or for such period not exceeding the term of the Mayor, as may be
designated by the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-108)
   (B)   Duties; salary. The City Engineer shall make and submit plans,
estimates and specifications for any public work which may be proposed or
ordered by the City Council. The Engineer shall also examine all public works
under his or her charge and see that the plans, estimates and specifications
for the same are properly executed. The Engineer shall also receive a salary as
established in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-109)
§ 31.002 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Director of
Public Works, an executive office of the city. He or she shall supervise the
superintendents of the Water and Sewer Departments.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-112)
   (B)   Appointment. The Director shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with
the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-113)
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   Streets. The Director shall be charged with the duty of keeping the
streets and alleys of the city clean and free from obstructions. He or she
shall see that the streets are properly graded and that the drains thereto are
free and unobstructed; and shall perform such other duties as may be provided
or required by the City Council. The Superintendent shall be responsible for
enforcing the applicable provisions of §§
150.21 through
150.41, Ch. 152,
154 and
155 and §§
156.01 through
156.09 and
156.40 through
156.42 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Water Department. The Director shall have charge and custody of all
physical property of the Water Department not assigned to some other officer or
employee, other than records. He or she shall have charge of the operation and
maintenance of the water system. He or she shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of Ch. 50 through 52 of this code of ordinances
pertaining to the water system.
      (3)   Sewer Department. The Director shall be responsible for the general
supervision of the sewer system. He or she shall supervise and assign jobs to
all employees in the Department. He or she shall have the duty to operate and
maintain the sewer system in a manner that complies with
Ch. 50 through
52 of this code of ordinances and state regulations. He or she shall enforce
all provisions of
Ch. 52 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-114)
   (D)   Ordinance violation. The Director shall report to the City Council any
ordinance violation with relation to the care of use of the streets, alleys and
sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-115)
§ 31.003 WARDS.
   The city shall be divided into the following three wards.
   (A)   Ward I. All that territory west of the east section lines of Sections
22 and 27 and south of the corporate limits line west of Sections 15 and 22.
   (B)   Ward II. All of that territory north of the alley running east and
west south of Main Street and east of Section 23’s west section line, plus the
area east of North 6th Street north of the I.C.G.R.R. right-of-way.
   (C)   Ward III. All of that territory south of the alley running east and
west (south of E. Main Street) and east of the west section line of Sections 23
and 26.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 31.004 MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   Participation. The City Council does hereby authorize and approve
membership in the state’s Municipal League Risk Management Association and
directs the Mayor and Clerk to execute an intergovernmental cooperation
contract with the state’s Municipal League Risk Management Association for
membership for a period of one year beginning the date the Association
commences providing risk coverage to its members and each year thereafter
unless this section is repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Contribution. Each member hereby agrees to contribute to the
Association a sum of money to be determined by the Association at the time of
application based on the needs of the Association and the loss experience of
the member, which sum shall constitute the cost of the member’s first year
contribution for membership in the Association. Membership contributions for
second and subsequent years shall be calculated in accordance with the loss
experience of the city and the needs of the Association including total losses
and expenditures of the Self-Insured Retention Fund of the Association.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 31.005 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   (A)    The annual salaries of the elected officials shall be as follows:
      (1)   Mayor: $9,600 per year.
      (2)   Mayor as Liquor Commissioner: $500 per year.
      (3)   City Clerk: $6,000 per year.
      (4)   Alderpersons: $2,400 per year.
   (B)   These elected officials shall also receive pay for attendance at
public-noticed meetings of the corporate authorities at the rate of $30 per
meeting.
   (C)   These salary and meeting attendance pay increases shall not take
effect until May 1, 2025, for those officials elected in 2021, and until May 1,
2027, for those officials elected in 2023. The annual appropriations ordinance
for the 2025-2026 fiscal year shall for the first time reflect the 2025
increases, and the annual appropriations ordinance for the 2027-2028 fiscal
year shall for the first time reflect the 2027 increases.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 23-663, passed 8-10-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5, 5/3.1-50-10 and 5/3.1-50-15
CITY CLERK
§ 31.020 ELECTED.
   The Clerk shall be elected at the same election as the Mayor for a four-year
term and shall serve until a successor is elected and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-56)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.021 VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of City Clerk and more than 28
months remain in the term and the vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before
the general municipal election, next scheduled under the General Election Law
being 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50, the office shall be filled for the remainder of the
term at that general municipal election. During the period from the time that
the vacancy occurs until the next election of Aldermen, the Mayor shall appoint
a qualified person to the office subject to the advice and consent of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-57)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(b)
§ 31.022 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES; COUNCIL MINUTES; RECORDS.
   (A)   Ordinances. The City Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by the
City Council, and approved by the Mayor, imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture or making any appropriation to be published or
printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the corporate
authorities or be published at least once within 30 days after passage, in one
or more newspapers published in the city.
   (B)   Minutes; records.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the City Council and
shall keep in a suitable book to be styled the “Journal of the City Council”, a
full and faithful record of its proceedings.
      (2)   The record of those proceedings shall be made available for public
inspection within seven days after being approved and accepted by the corporate
authorities as the official minutes of their proceedings.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for
that purpose, all ordinances passed by the City Council and at the foot of the
record of each ordinance so recorded, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the
date of the passage, when published and a memorandum of the publication of such
ordinance.
   (C)   Bonds. The Clerk shall also record in proper books for the purpose all
official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was entered of
record and the book and pages where recorded.
   (D)   Issue notices. The Clerk shall issue and cause to be served upon all
Aldermen, notices of all special meetings of the City Council; also, notices to
the members of the different committees of that body and all persons whose
attendance may be required before any such committee, when so directed by the
Chair thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-58)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-
90 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110
§ 31.023 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the City Council
and to the officers of the city all petitions, communications, reports,
resolutions, orders, claims and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Council on demand therefor.
   (B)   The Clerk shall also, without delay, deliver to the Mayor all
ordinances or resolutions, orders and claims upon the Clerk’s charge which may
require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-59)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 31.024 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by City Clerk under this subchapter
and shall attest the same with the corporate seal and the Clerk shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-60)
§ 31.025 REPORT OF LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall report to the City Council, at its regular meeting each
month and more often if the Council so requires, the data contained in the
Clerk’s license register with respect to licenses issued during the previous
month.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-61)
§ 31.026 DELIVERY OF LICENSES.
   In all cases where the city requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation and the
licensee is required to obtain plates, tags or stickers from the Clerk, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver such plates, tags or stickers to the
City Billing Clerk who collects the license fees, delivers the license to the
persons paying the fee, and deposits the funds in the city’s bank account.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-62) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 31.027 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-63)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20
§ 31.028 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the city,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued;
and, when the city bonds are issued or purchased or paid or cancelled, the book
or books shall show that fact; and, in the annual report, the Clerk shall
describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of sale with
each and every item of expense thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-64)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110
§ 31.029 ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall supervise city elections, provide necessary documents for
elections and candidates, accept petitions and other documents from candidates,
file appropriate documents with the County Clerk for city candidates and
perform all other duties necessary to carrying out city elections.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-65)
§ 31.030 TREASURER’S REPORT.
   Upon receipt of the Treasurer’s annual account, the Clerk shall publish the
account at least once in the newspaper published in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-66)
§ 31.031 SUCCESSOR.
   The City Clerk shall carefully preserve all books, records, papers, maps and
effects of every detail and description belonging to the city or pertaining to
the office and not in actual use and possession of other city officers; and,
upon the expiration of his or her official term, the Clerk shall deliver all
such books, records, papers and effects to the successor in office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-67)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35
§ 31.032 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS APPOINTED TO OFFICE.
   (A)   Within five days after an appointment is made, the Clerk shall notify
all persons appointed to office of their appointment.
   (B)   The office becomes vacant unless the person appointed qualifies within
ten days after such notice.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-69)
§ 31.033 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to the office as are or may be imposed upon the office by law
or resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-70)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40
§ 31.034 SUBMIT APPROPRIATION TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall on or before May 15 in each year and
before the annual appropriations to be made by the City Council, submit to the
City Council a report of the estimates, as nearly as may be, of moneys
necessary to defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal
year.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall, in said report, classify the different
objects and branches of expenditures, giving as nearly as may be the amount
required for each; and for the purpose of making such a report, the Clerk is
hereby authorized to require of all officers their statement of the condition
and expenses of their respective offices or departments with any proposed
improvements and the probable expense thereof, all contracts made and
unfinished and the amount of any and all unexpended appropriations of the
preceding year.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall, in such report, show the aggregate income of
the preceding fiscal year, from all sources, the amount of liabilities
outstanding upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable
during the year, when due and when payable and, in such report, shall give such
other information to the City Council as he or she may deem necessary to the
end that the City Council may fully understand the money exigencies and demands
upon the corporation for the current year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-71) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115
§ 31.035 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk, when authorized by the City Council, may appoint the
Deputy Clerk who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of the city
thereto whenever required. In signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall
sign the name of the City Clerk followed with the word “by”, the Deputy Clerk’s
name and the words “Deputy Clerk”.
   (B)   The powers and duties herein described shall be executed by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the City Clerk from the City Clerk’s office
in the City Hall and only when either written direction has been given by the
City Clerk to such Deputy Clerk to exercise such power or the City Council has
determined by resolution that the City Clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such functions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-72)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45, 5/3.1-30-10 and 5/3.1-35-95
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.050 FINANCE DEPARTMENT AND OFFICER ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city, which shall be known as the Finance Department. It shall embrace the
Finance Committee and the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-73)
§ 31.051 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The standing Committee on Finance shall exercise a general supervision over
the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall ascertain the condition and
needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City
Council so that a full understanding thereof shall be had and generally; and
shall do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-74)
§ 31.052 APPOINTMENT.
   The Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council as provided by §
30.090 of this code of ordinances, said appointment to take effect with the
term of office commencing 5-1-1997, for a term not to exceed four years and
shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified. If a
vacancy occurs in the office, it shall be filled in the same manner as
hereinabove specified. The person so appointed shall hold office for the
unexpired term of the officer appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-75)
§ 31.053 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the city and
shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City
Treasurer and not otherwise; and shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (B)   Any city employee who receives payment shall give to every person
paying money into the City Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and upon what account paid and shall record in the city billing system.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-76) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 31.054 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid,
showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which paid and the
name of the person to whom and when paid; and, the Treasurer shall cancel all
warrants as soon as they are redeemed.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-77)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 and 5/3.1-35-45
§ 31.055 PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the municipality and
in the Treasurer’s custody separate and distinct from the Treasurer’s own money
and shall not use, either directly or indirectly, the municipality’s moneys or
warrants for the personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any other
person.
   (B)   Any violation of this provision shall subject the Treasurer to
immediate removal from office by the corporate authorities, who may declare the
Treasurer’s office vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-78)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55
§ 31.056 BOND.
   The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties and to indemnify the city for any loss due to neglect of duty
or wrongful act on his or her part; and the amount of such bond shall not be
less than 10% of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments received
by the Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding five fiscal years, nor
less than one and one-half times the largest amount which the Council estimates
will be in his or her custody at any one time, nor less than three times the
number of residents of the city, as determined by the last federal census. Such
bond shall be filed with the Clerk as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-79)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45
§ 31.057 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall collect all payments on special assessments and shall
see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the particular
account entitled thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-80)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85
§ 31.058 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep the books and accounts in such a manner as to show
with accuracy, all moneys received and disbursed for the city, stating from
whom and on what account received and to whom and on what account paid out and
in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily investigated and
understood and the books and accounts and all files and papers of the office
shall be, at all times, open to examination by the Mayor or the Finance
Committee of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-81)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 31.059 STATEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities, at the regular
monthly meeting, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
of the municipality as shown by his or her books up to the time of the report.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-82)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45
§ 31.060 REPORT DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report to the City Clerk any
officer of the city authorized to receive money for the use of the city who may
fail to make a return of the moneys received by the Treasurer at the time
required by law or by ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-83)
§ 31.061 YEAR-END REPORT.
   (A)   (1)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the
Treasurer shall prepare and file annually with the City Clerk an account of
moneys received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year, as
specified in this section.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall show the following in such account:
         (a)   All moneys received by the city, indicating the total amounts in
the aggregate received in each account of the city, with a general statement
concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the purposes of
this division (A)(2), the term ACCOUNT shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user or such other persons
whose payments to the city are credited to the general account;
         (b)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(c) below, all moneys paid
out by the city where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds
$2,500, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid and
the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
         (c)   All moneys paid out by the city as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid and
the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account; and
         (d)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account
groups of the city as excerpted from the annual financial report, as filed with
the appropriate state agency of the state.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such account from the City Treasurer, the City Clerk
shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers published in
the city.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall file a copy of the report with the County
Treasurer, as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-84)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65
§ 31.062 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all funds and moneys in
his or her custody belonging to the city in such places of deposit as have been
designated by division (F) below.
      (2)   When requested by the Treasurer, the corporate authorities shall
designate a bank or banks in which may be kept the funds and moneys of the city
in the custody of the Treasurer. When a bank or savings and loan association
has been designated as a depository, it shall continue as such depository until
ten days have elapsed after a new depository is designated and has qualified by
furnishing the statements of resources and liabilities as required by this
section. When a new depository is designated, the corporate authorities shall
notify the sureties of the Treasurer of that fact in writing at least five days
before the transfer of funds. The Treasurer shall be discharged from
responsibility for all funds or money that the Treasurer deposits in a
designated bank or savings and loan association while the funds and money are
so deposited.
   (B)   The Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan association to
deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages that have a market value at
least equal to the amount of the funds or moneys of the municipality deposited
with the bank or savings and loan association that exceeds the insurance
limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
   (C)   The Treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or indefinite
term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment or withdrawal
of municipal funds.
   (D)   (1)   Each Treasurer may:
         (a)   Combine moneys from more than one fund of a single municipality
for the purpose of investing those funds; and
         (b)   Join with other municipal treasurers or municipalities for the
purpose of investing the municipal funds of which the Treasurer has custody.
      (2)   (a)   Joint investments shall be made only in investments
authorized by law for the investment of municipal funds.
         (b)   When moneys of more than one fund of a single municipality or
moneys of more than one municipality are combined for investment purposes, the
moneys combined for that purpose shall be accounted for separately in all
respects and the earnings from investments shall be separately and individually
computed, recorded and credited to the fund or municipality, as the case may
be, for which the investment was acquired.
   (E)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds as
permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements
established by § 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act, being 30 ILCS 235/1 et
seq.
   (F)   The following bank(s) are herewith designated as places of deposit
where the Treasurer is required to keep all funds and moneys in his or her
custody belonging to the municipality:
      (1)   State Treasurer’s Investment Pool;
      (2)   CNB Bank and Trust; and
      (3)   Carrollton Bank and Trust.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-85) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 30 ILCS 235/6 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50
JUDICIARY
§ 31.075 APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council for the term of one year, unless sooner removed
for cause and until a successor shall have been appointed and qualified.
   (B)   The Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the city and
shall be known as the “City Attorney” and shall receive an annual salary as
determined by the appropriation ordinance, compensation for office services and
advice and shall receive reasonable fees for other services rendered when, in
his or her judgment or in the judgment of the Mayor or City Council, the same
are necessary or are for the best interests of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-88) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.076 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for city. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend on
behalf of the city in all cases in which the interests of the corporation or
any officer thereof are involved; and the City Clerk shall furnish him or her
with certified copies of any ordinance, bond or paper in keeping necessary to
be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. The Attorney shall, when required, advise
the City Council or any officer in all matters of law in which the interests of
the corporation are involved and shall draw such ordinances, bonds, forms and
contracts or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required by the Mayor,
the City Council or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments. The Attorney shall direct executions to be issued upon all
judgments recovered in favor of the city and shall direct their prompt service.
The Attorney shall examine all the bills of the officers of courts and of other
officers of the law and shall certify to their correctness and the liability of
the city therefor.
   (D)   Violations of ordinances. The Attorney shall institute and prosecute
an action in every case of violation of a city ordinance when instructed to do
so by the Mayor or the City Council.
   (E)   Prosecution of suits. The Attorney shall not be required to prosecute
any suit or action arising under the ordinances of the city when, upon
investigation of the same, the Attorney shall become satisfied that the
complaint was instituted maliciously, vexatiously or without just cause; and
shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he
or she may deem just or equitable.
   (F)   Collection of taxes. The Attorney is hereby authorized and instructed
to enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the
collection of which the city is interested and to attend all sales of real or
personal property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special
assessments and to bid thereat on behalf of the city.
   (G)   Commissions. The City Attorney shall act as the legal advisory for the
utilities systems, for the Plan Commission, for the Zoning Board of Appeals and
for all other boards and commissions hereafter established by the City Council.
The Attorney shall perform all legal services as may be required for those
boards and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-89)
CHAPTER 32: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Code of Ethics adopted by reference
   
32.02   Equal Employment Policy
   
32.03   Grievance Procedure
   
32.04   Freedom of Information Policy
   
32.05   Duty to post information pertaining to the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund
§ 32.01 CODE OF ETHICS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Code of Ethics, a copy of which is attached to Ord. No. 23-664 as
Exhibit B, is hereby adopted by reference, and incorporated herein as if set
out in full. A copy of the Code of Ethics adopted on November 9, 2023, by Ord.
No. 23-664 is on file and available for viewing in the City Clerk’s Office at
City Hall.
(Ord. 23-664, passed 11-9-2023)
§ 32.02 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   The city’s Equal Employment Policy is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, §§ 22-1-1—22-1-8)
§ 32.03 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   The city’s Grievance Procedure is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, §§ 22-2-1—22-2-3)
§ 32.04 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION POLICY.
   The city’s Freedom of Information Policy is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, §§ 15-1-1—15-1-15)
§ 32.05 DUTY TO POST INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL
RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   Within six business days after an employer participating in the
Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund approves a budget, that employer must post
on its website the total compensation package for each employee having a total
compensation package that exceeds $75,000 per year. If the employer does not
maintain a website, the employer must post a physical copy of this information
at the principal office of the employer. If an employer maintains a website, it
may choose to post a physical copy of this information at the principal office
of the employer in lieu of posting the information directly on the website;
however, the employer must post directions on the website on how to access that
information.
   (B)   At least six days before an employer participating in the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund approves an employee’s total compensation package
that is equal to or in excess of $150,000 per year, the employer must post on
its website the total compensation package for that employee. If the employer
does not maintain a website, the employer shall post a physical copy of this
information at the principal office of the employer. If an employer maintains a
website, it may choose to post a physical copy of this information at the
principal office of the employer in lieu of posting the information directly on
the website; however, the employer must post directions on the website on how
to access that information.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, TOTAL COMPENSATION PACKAGE means
payment by the employer to the employee for salary, health insurance, a housing
allowance, a vehicle allowance, a clothing allowance, bonuses, loans vacation
days granted, and sick days granted.
(5 ILCS 120/7.3)
CHAPTER 33: EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL CODE
Section
   
33.01   Employee Personnel Code adopted by reference
§ 33.01 EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The city’s Employee Personnel Code, a copy of which is attached to Ord. No.
23-664 as Exhibit A, is hereby adopted by reference, and incorporated herein as
if set out in full. A copy of the revised Employee Personnel Code adopted on
November 9, 2023, by this Ord. No. 23-664 is on file and available for viewing
in the City Clerk’s Office at City Hall.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12) (Ord. 17-616, passed 1-12-2017; Ord. 17-617, passed 1-12-
2017; Ord. 20-638, passed 1-9-2020; Ord. 21-650, passed 5-25-2021; Ord. 21-651,
passed 9-9-2021; Ord. 23-664, passed 11-9-2023)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Department established
   
34.02   Office of Chief created
   
34.03   Duties of Chief
   
34.04   Patrol officers
   
34.05   Salary
   
34.06   Duties
   
34.07   Mutual aid contract
   
34.08   Special police officers
   
34.09   Legal processes
   
34.10   Assisting police officer
   
34.11   Aiding Fire Department
   
34.12   Failure to perform
   
34.13   Aiding in escape
   
34.14   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
34.15   Witness fees
   
34.16   Rules and regulations
   
34.17   Stolen property
   
34.18   MABAS agreement
   
34.19   Part-time officer training
   
34.20   Part-time police
Police Regulations and Agreements
   
34.35   Police employee regulations agreement
   
34.36   Discipline and discharge
   
34.37   Dispute resolution and grievance procedure
   
34.38   Seniority
   
34.39   Hours of work/overtime
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city which shall be known as the “Police Department”. The Police Department
shall consist of the Mayor, as Police Commissioner, the Chief of Police and of
such number of patrol officers as may be provided from time to time by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 34.02 OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of the Chief of Police. The
Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council. If the Chief of Police is not reappointed, he or she shall be
given the opportunity to be assigned to his or her previously held rank.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall have such minimum qualifications including:
      (1)   A certification of graduation relative to the successful completion
of the State Police Training Institute; and
      (2)   A certificate for successful completion of 40 hours of firearms
training.
   (C)   Compensation for the Chief of Police shall be determined by the City
Council considering such appointee’s duties, training, education, work
experience and the relative incomes of other department personnel.
   (D)   The position of Assistant Chief of Police is created to assist the
Chief of Police in managing and supervising the Police Department. The
Assistant Chief shall be appointed by the City Council upon recommendation of
the Personnel Committee, concurrently with the appointment of Chief of Police.
The Assistant Chief shall be compensated by stipend as established by the City
Council, in addition to his or her hourly rate of pay.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-2)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of his or her Department as may be required. The Chief shall be
responsible for the performance of the Police Department, of all its functions
and all persons who are members of the Department shall serve subject to the
orders of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-3)
§ 34.04 PATROL OFFICERS.
   A sufficient number of patrol officers shall be hired in accordance with the
provisions of §§
150.20 through
150.41,
Ch. 152,
154 and
155, §§
156.01 through
156.09 and §§
156.40 through
156.42 of this code of ordinances, except as same may be in conflict with any
collective bargaining agreement from time to time in effect. All patrol
officers of the city shall be required to complete training certification
including graduation from the state’s Police Training Institute and
certification for 40 hours of firearms training, within nine months of hiring.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-4)
§ 34.05 SALARY.
   The Police Department shall receive such compensation as may be provided by
the annual budget or appropriation ordinance of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 34.06 DUTIES.
   (A)   The police officer shall devote his or her entire time to the
performance of the duties of his or her office and is hereby charged with the
preservation of the peace, order and safety of the city and with the duty of
protecting the rights of persons and property and of enforcing all laws and
also all orders of the City Council.
   (B)   He or she shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions and defects
on the highways or other public places and shall cause the same to be abated or
removed or immediate notice thereof given to the proper officer whose duty it
may be to take action in relation thereto.
   (C)   (1)   When requested by the Mayor, he or she shall attend, either in
person or by deputy, all meetings of the City Council, execute all its orders
and close the Council Chamber upon the adjournment of that body.
      (2)   He or she shall also execute all warrants or other legal process
required to be executed by him or her under any ordinance of the city or laws
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 34.07 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The Police Department, with the approval of the City Council, may enter into
an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 34.08 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor may, on special occasions when, in his or her judgment, for
public peace and order of the city shall require, appoint and commission any
number of special police officers as may be necessary and shall fix in order of
their appointment, the time during which each shall serve all such special
police officers, during such time, shall possess the powers and exercise the
duties of regular police patrol officers; provided that, their appointment, if
for more than ten days, shall be subject to the consent of the City Council in
the manner that other appointments to office by the Mayor are subject.
   (B)   (1)   Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with
the permission of the Mayor and then only when in uniform and in the
performance of their duties.
      (2)   They shall have a current and valid certification for the duties
they are required to perform.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-8)
§ 34.09 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute city warrants or
other similar legal processes outside the corporate limits of the city and
within such distance therefrom as authorized by law in all cases when any
ordinance of the City Council made pursuant to law shall prescribe a penalty
for the violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting or doing
any business within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-9)
§ 34.10 ASSISTING POLICE OFFICER.
   Every police officer of the city may, at any time, call upon any able-bodied
person(s) above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in the arresting,
retaking or holding in custody of any person guilty of having committed any
unlawful act or charged therewith or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 34.11 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 34.12 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by this subchapter or the rules and regulations
of the Department or who shall be, in the discharge of his or her official
duties, guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions or willful
wrong or injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.13 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to resist or obstruct any
member of the Police Force in the discharge of his or her duty or to endeavor
to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any member of the
Police Department to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody or to
attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.14 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on an active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the city shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor of
any kind and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for removal.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any
state or federal law.
   (B)   No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness in
any action or suit to which the city is a party, except those fees paid by the
city; and fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the Chief of
Police, who shall deposit the same with the City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-15) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the Police Department as he or she shall
deem advisable and such rules, when approved by the Mayor, shall be binding on
such members.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 34.17 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 34.18 MABAS AGREEMENT.
   The city shall participate in the state’s law enforcement alarm system
mutual aid agreement, which is a network of law enforcement agencies which vow
to help each other in times of catastrophe. Therefore, the city shall
participate in the state law enforcement alarm system.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-18)
§ 34.19 PART-TIME OFFICER TRAINING.
   (A)   All police officers, other than those officers who shall be employed
on a full-time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any
training mandated by the state’s Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   (B)   The aforesaid hiring standard, particularly with respect to part-time
police officers employed by the city shall be submitted to the state’s Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board, as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-21
§ 34.20 PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Police Department, but the number of hours a part-time
officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
state’s Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the state’s Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline.
      (1)   Part-time police officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police.
      (2)   Part-time police officers serve at the discretion of the city
authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment and may be
removed by the city authorities at any time.
      (3)   Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules
and general orders issued by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-20)
POLICE REGULATIONS AND AGREEMENTS
§ 34.35 POLICE EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS AGREEMENT.
   The city’s police employee regulations agreement is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, §§ 30-2-25—30-2-48)
§ 34.36 DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE.
   The city’s Police Department discipline and discharge procedures are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-35)
§ 34.37 DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   The city’s Police Department dispute resolution and grievance procedures are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-36)
§ 34.38 SENIORITY.
   The city’s Police Department seniority procedures are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-37)
§ 34.39 HOURS OF WORK/OVERTIME.
   The city’s Police Department hours of work and overtime procedures are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-38)
CHAPTER 35: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Library Board
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Appointment; compensation
   
35.03   Term
   
35.04   Vacancies
   
35.05   Oath of office; organization; meetings
   
35.06   Custodian of funds
   
35.07   Powers and duties
   
35.08   Additional powers and duties
   
35.09   Selection and use of library materials
   
35.10   Free to public
   
35.11   Annual report
   
35.12   Donations
   
35.13   Disturbance prohibited
   
35.14   Injury or failure to return books
   
35.15   Reference
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a public library for the use and benefit of the
inhabitants of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/1-2
§ 35.02 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, with the approval of the City Council, proceed to
appoint a board of nine Trustees for the public library chosen from the
citizens at large with reference to their fitness for such office. Not more
than one member of the City Council shall be (at any one time) a member of the
Library Board.
   (B)   Trustees of the Library Board shall serve without compensation, but
shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties from library funds.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/4-1 and 75 ILCS 5/4-5
§ 35.03 TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, before the July 1 of each year, appoint three
Trustees to take the place of the retiring Trustees who shall hold office for
three years and until their successors are appointed.
   (B)   By and with the advice and consent of the City Council, the Mayor may
remove any Trustee as provided in §
30.091 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/4-1.1
§ 35.04 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be declared in the office of a Trustee by the Board when the
Trustee declines or is unable to serve or is absent without cause from all
regular Board meetings for a period of one year or is convicted of a
misdemeanor for failing, neglecting or refusing to discharge any duty imposed
upon a Trustee or becomes a non-resident of the city or who fails to pay the
library taxes levied by the corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 35.05 OATH OF OFFICE; ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Within 60 days after their appointment, the new Trustees shall take
their oaths of office and meet to organize the Board. The oath shall consist of
the following:
 
I, _________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of trustee according to the best
of my ability.
 
   (B)   (1)   The first action taken at the organizational meeting of the
Board shall be the election of a President and a Secretary and such other
officers as the Board may deem necessary and the Board shall further provide in
the bylaws of the Board as to the length of the terms in office.
      (2)   The Trustees shall determine the time and place of all official
meetings of the Board at which any legal action may be taken and shall post
notice thereof at the public library maintained by the Board and at not less
than one public place within the corporate confines of the area of library
service one day in advance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/4-6
§ 35.06 CUSTODIAN OF FUNDS.
   The Library Board of Trustees shall be the custodian of all funds. The cost
of any bond necessary to satisfy the requirements of 75 ILCS 5/4-9 shall be
borne by the library.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-6)
§ 35.07 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Library Trustees shall carry out the spirit and intent of this
subchapter in establishing, supporting and maintaining a public library or
libraries for providing library service and, in addition to, but without
limiting other powers conferred by this subchapter shall have the following
powers:
   (A)   To make and adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for their own
guidance and for the government of the library as may be expedient, not
inconsistent with this subchapter;
   (B)   To have the exclusive control of the expenditure of all moneys
collected for the library and deposited to the credit of the Library Fund;
   (C)   To have the exclusive control of the construction of any library
building and of the supervision, care and custody of the grounds, rooms or
buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose;
   (D)   To purchase or lease real or personal property and to construct an
appropriate building or buildings for the use of a library established
hereunder, using, at the Board’s option, contracts providing for all or part of
the consideration to be paid through installments at stated intervals during a
certain period not to exceed 20 years with interest on the unpaid balance at
any lawful rate for municipal corporations in the state; except that, contracts
for installment purchases of real estate shall provide for not more than 75% of
the total consideration to be repaid by installments and to refund at any time
any installment contract entered into pursuant to this division (D) by means of
a refunding loan agreement, which may provide for installment payments of
principal and interest to be made at stated intervals during a certain period
not to exceed 20 years from the date of such refunding loan agreement, with
interest on the unpaid principal balance at any lawful rate for municipal
corporations in the state; except that, no installment contract or refunding
loan agreement for the same property or construction project may exceed an
aggregate of 20 years;
   (E)   To remodel or reconstruct a building erected or purchased by the
Board, when such building is not adapted to its purposes or needs;
   (F)   To sell or otherwise dispose of any real or personal property that it
deems no longer necessary or useful for library purposes and to lease to others
any real property not immediately useful, but for which plans for ultimate use
have been or will be adopted; however, the corporate authorities shall have the
first right to purchase or lease;
   (G)   To appoint and to fix the compensation of a qualified librarian, who
shall have the authority to hire such other employees as may be necessary, to
fix their compensation and to remove such appointees, subject to the approval
of the Library Board (but these powers are subject to Div. 1 of Art. 10 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/10-1-1 et seq. in municipalities in
which that division is in force). The Board may also retain counsel and
professional consultants as needed;
   (H)   To contract with any public or private corporation or entity for the
purpose of providing or receiving library service or of performing any and all
other acts necessary and proper to carry out the responsibilities and the
provisions of this subchapter. This contractual power includes, but is not
limited to, participating in interstate library compacts and library systems
and contracting to supply library services and for the expenditure of any
federal or state funds made available to the municipality or to the state for
library purposes;
   (I)   To join with the board or boards of any one or more libraries in the
state in maintaining libraries or for the maintenance of a common library or
common library services for participants, upon such terms as may be agreed upon
by and between the boards;
   (J)   To enter into contracts and to take title to any property acquired by
it for library purposes by the name and style of “The Library Board of Trustees
of the City” and by that name to sue and be sued;
   (K)   To exclude from the use of the library any person who willfully
violates the rules prescribed by the Board;
   (L)   (1)   To extend the privileges and use of the library; including the
borrowing of materials on an individual basis by persons residing outside of
the city;
      (2)   If the Board exercises this power, the privilege of library use
shall be upon such terms and conditions as the Board shall, from time to time,
by its regulations, prescribe and for such privileges and use, the Board shall
charge a non-resident fee at least equal to the cost paid by residents of the
city, with the cost to be determined according to the formula established by
the state library; and
      (3)   The non-resident fee shall not apply to privilege and use provided
under the terms of the library’s membership in a library system operating under
the provisions of the state’s Library System Act, being 75 ILCS 10/1 et seq. or
under the terms of any reciprocal agreement with a public or private
corporation or entity providing a library service or to a non-resident who is
an individual or as a partner, principal stockholder or other joint owner owns
taxable property or is a senior administrative officer of a firm, business or
other corporation owning taxable property within the municipality upon the
presentation of the most recent tax bill upon that taxable property, provided
that the privilege and use of the library is extended to only one such non-
resident for each parcel of such taxable property;
   (M)   To exercise the power of eminent domain subject to the prior approval
of the corporate authorities under the provisions of 75 ILCS 5/5-1 and 5/5-2;
   (N)   To join the public library as a member in the state’s Library
Association and the American Library Association, non-profit, non-political,
501(c)(3) associations, as designated by the Federal Internal Revenue Service,
having the purpose of library development and librarianship, to provide for the
payment of annual membership dues, fees and assessments and act by, through and
in the name of such instrumentality by providing and disseminating information
and research services, employing personnel and doing any and all other acts for
the purpose of improving library development;
   (O)   To accumulate and set apart as reserve funds, portions of the
unexpended balances of the proceeds received annually from taxes or other
sources for the purpose of providing self-insurance against liabilities
relating to the public library; and
   (P)   To invest funds pursuant to the 30 ILCS 235/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/10-1-1 and 75 ILCS 5/4-7
§ 35.08 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In addition to all other powers and authority now possessed by it, the
Board of Library Trustees shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To lease from any public building commission created pursuant to
the provisions of the Public Building Commission Act being 50 ILCS 20/1 et
seq., as now or hereafter amended, any real or personal property for library
purposes for a period of time not exceeding 20 years; and
      (2)   To pay for the use of this leased property in accordance with the
terms of the lease and with the provisions of the Public Building Commission
Act, as now or hereafter amended.
   (B)   Such lease may be entered into without making a previous appropriation
for the expense thereby incurred. However, if the Board undertakes to pay all
or any part of the costs of operating and maintaining the property of a public
building commission as authorized in division (C) below, such expenses of
operation and maintenance shall be included in the annual budget of such Board
annually during the term of such undertaking.
   (C)   In addition, the Board may undertake, either in the lease with a
public building commission or by separate agreement or contract with a public
building commission, to pay all or any part of the costs of maintaining and
operating the property of a public building commission for any period of time
not exceeding 40 years.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 20/1 et seq. and 75 ILCS 5/4-7.1
§ 35.09 SELECTION AND USE OF LIBRARY MATERIALS.
   (A)   The Board of Library Trustees shall establish and review at least
biennially, a written policy for the selection of library materials and the use
of library materials and facilities.
   (B)   No employee may be disciplined or dismissed for the selection of
library materials when the selection is made in good faith and in accordance
with the written policy required to be established pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/4-7.2
§ 35.10 FREE TO PUBLIC.
   The library established shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
city, always subject to such rules and regulations as the Library Board of
Trustees may adopt, in order to render the use of the library and reading room
to the greatest benefit to the greatest number.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/4-7
§ 35.11 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the expiration of each fiscal year of the
municipality, the Library Board of Trustees shall make a report of the
condition of its trust on the last day of the fiscal year to the City Council.
This report shall be made in writing and shall be verified under oath by the
Secretary or some other responsible officer of the Library Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The report shall contain the following:
      (1)   An itemized statement of the various sums of money received from
the Library Fund and from other sources;
      (2)   An itemized statement of the objects and purposes for which those
sums of money have been expended;
      (3)   A statement of the number of books and periodicals available for
use and the number and character thereof circulated;
      (4)   A statement of the real and personal property acquired by legacy,
purchase, gift or otherwise;
      (5)   A statement of the character of any extensions of library service
which have been undertaken;
      (6)   A statement of the financial requirements of the library for the
ensuing fiscal year for inclusion in the appropriation of the corporate
authority and of the amount of money which, in the judgment of the Library
Board of Trustees, it will be necessary to levy for library purposes in the
next annual tax levy ordinance;
      (7)   A statement as to the amount of accumulations and the reasons
therefor;
      (8)   A statement as to any outstanding liabilities including those for
bonds still outstanding or amounts due for judgments, settlements, liability
insurance or for amounts due under a certificate of the Board; and
      (9)   Any other statistics, information and suggestions that may be of
interest.
   (C)   A report shall also be filed at the same time with the state library.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/4-10
§ 35.12 DONATIONS.
   Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property or real
estate for the benefit of such library shall have the right to vest the title
of the money or real estate so donated in the Library Board of Trustees to be
held and controlled by the Board when accepted, according to the terms of the
deed, gift, devise or bequest of such property and as to such property, the
Board of Trustees shall be held and considered as special trustees.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/1-6
§ 35.13 DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   Any person who shall create any disturbance while in the rooms of the public
library or who shall be guilty of any conduct calculated to annoy or disturb
others in said library and who shall not cease said conduct when requested to
do so by the librarian or other person in charge, shall be subject to arrest
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-13)
§ 35.14 INJURY TO OR FAILURE TO RETURN BOOKS.
   No person shall maliciously cut, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book,
newspaper, periodical or picture belonging to the public library. No person
shall fail to return any book or books taken from the library at the time when,
by the rules of the library, the same should be returned. The person shall
promptly pay the fine provided for by the rules and regulations governing the
library, as the same have been or may be established by the Library Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.15 REFERENCE.
   The City Council does hereby include, by reference, all provisions of 75
ILCS 5/4 et seq. applicable to the city library that are not provided
heretofor.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-15)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Corporate rate
   
36.002   Police tax
   
36.003   Audit tax
   
36.004   Social Security and Medicare tax
   
36.005   General liability
   
36.006   Library tax
   
36.007   Sewerage chlorination
   
36.008   Worker’s compensation
   
36.009   Public parks tax
   
36.010   School crossing guards
   
36.011   IMRF
   
36.012   Street lighting tax
   
36.013   Cemetery tax
Simplified Telecommunications Tax
   
36.025   Telecommunications tax recitals
   
36.026   Definitions
   
36.027   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
36.028   Collection of tax by retailers
   
36.029   Returns to Department
   
36.030   Resellers
Municipal Utility Tax
   
36.045   Tax imposed
   
36.046   Exceptions
   
36.047   Additional taxes
   
36.048   Definitions
   
36.049   Reports to municipality
   
36.050   Credit for over payment
Taxpayers’ Rights Code
   
36.085   Title
   
36.086   Scope
   
36.087   Definitions
   
36.088   Notices
   
36.089   Late payment
   
36.090   Payment
   
36.091   Certain credits and refunds
   
36.092   Audit procedure
   
36.093   Appeal
   
36.094   Hearing
   
36.095   Interest and penalties
   
36.096   Abatement
   
36.097   Installment contracts
   
36.098   Statute of limitations
   
36.099   Voluntary disclosure
   
36.100   Publication of tax ordinances
   
36.101   Internal review procedure
   
36.102   Application
City Investment Policy
   
36.115   Purpose and scope
   
36.116   Responsibilities
   
36.117   Delegation of authority
   
36.118   Prudent person standard
   
36.119   Objectives
   
36.120   Guidelines
   
36.121   Reporting
   
36.122   Internal controls
   
36.123   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
36.124   Conflicts of interest
City Funds Policy
   
36.135   Funds source
   
36.136   City Collector’s report
   
36.137   Finance Committee’s recommendation
   
36.138   Final approval by Council
   
36.139   Emergency approval
   
36.140   Reimbursement of fund transfer
   
36.141   Approval required for transfers
 
   
36.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 CORPORATE RATE.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the city be and the same
is hereby established at a rate of 0.317%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1
§ 36.002 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the city be and the same
is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-3
§ 36.003 AUDIT TAX.
   The City Council may levy a municipal auditing tax upon all taxable property
in the city which will produce an amount which will equal the cost of all
auditing for the city.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-8-8
§ 36.004 SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE TAX.
   The City Council may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the city at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the Federal Social Security
system.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/21.110 and 5/21.110.1
§ 36.005 GENERAL LIABILITY.
   The City Council may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the city at
whatever rate is necessary to purchase general liability insurance for the
city.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 745 ILCS 10/9-107
§ 36.006 LIBRARY TAX.
   The maximum tax for library purposes, be and the same is hereby established
at a rate of 0.23%. (Prior Code, § 36-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/3-1 and 5/3-4
§ 36.007 SEWERAGE CHLORINATION.
   The maximum rate for sewerage chlorination purposes upon all taxable
property in the city shall be 0.075%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-142-3
§ 36.008 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   The maximum tax for worker’s compensation and occupational diseases claims
purposes, be and the same is hereby established at a rate to pay for legal
services, purchase insurance, purchase claim services and pay for judgments and
settlements.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 745 ILCS 10/9-107
§ 36.009 PUBLIC PARKS TAX.
   The maximum tax for public park purposes be and the same is hereby
established at a rate of 0.10%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-50-1
§ 36.010 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   The maximum rate for school crossing guard purposes upon all taxable
property in the city shall be 0.02%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-23
§ 36.011 IMRF.
   The tax rate for the state’s Municipal Retirement Fund shall not exceed the
amount appropriated for the municipal contribution.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/7-171
§ 36.012 STREET LIGHTING TAX.
   The maximum rate for street lighting purposes upon all taxable property in
the city shall be 0.05%. (Prior Code, § 36-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-5
§ 36.013 CEMETERY TAX.
   The maximum rate for cemetery purposes upon all taxable property in the city
shall be 0.025%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-50-1
SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATION TAX
§ 36.025 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RECITALS.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of the state’s
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, Pub. Act No. 92-526 (the
“Act”), being 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-1)
§ 36.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE.
      (1)   The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within the state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within the state and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-
office channel provided within the state.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGE shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
            1.   The tax imposed by this section;
            2.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act,
being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.;
            3.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, being
26 U.S.C. § 4251;
            4.   Nine-one-one surcharges; or
            5.   Charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions
of §§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act being 220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 9-
222, as amended or any similar charges added to customers’ bills by retailers
who are not subject to rate regulation by the state’s Commerce Commission for
the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified
in those provisions of the Public Utilities Act;
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act being 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1 to the extent of such exemption
and during the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and
Community Affairs;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
         (g)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunication devices; or
         (i)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, being 35 ILCS 635/1 et
seq.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside the state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within the state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute or any city, town, country or other political
subdivision of the state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within the state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such RETAILER shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such RETAILER to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a RETAILER maintaining
a place of business within the state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. This term or any
like term, means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the
state, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business or
any agent or other representative operating within the state under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in the state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems and maritime systems,
SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use as defined in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act, being 35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.
For air-to-ground systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location
of a taxpayer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by
telephone number, authorization code or location in the state where bills are
sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by the subchapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
      (1)   In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly ascribed to it,
this includes, without limitation, messages or information transmitted through
use of local, toll and wide-area telephone service, private line services,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer exchange
services, cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio,
stationary two-way radio, paging service or any other form of mobile and
portable one-way or two-way communications or any other transmission of
messages or information by electronic or similar means, between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities.
      (2)   As used in this definition, PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-
traffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to
exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of channels,
from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
      (3)   The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission.
      (4)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunication service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities and all TELECOMMUNICATIONS resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of or integrated into, end-to-end
TELECOMMUNICATIONS service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale.
      (5)   Prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered
TELECOMMUNICA-TIONS subject to the tax imposed under this subchapter. For
purposes of this definition, PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that
term as defined in § 2-27 of the Retailer’s Occupations Tax Act, being 35 ILCS
120/1.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-2)
§ 36.027 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon any and all of the following acts or privileges:
      (1)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer; and
      (2)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
   (B)   To prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in the state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the city.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-3)
§ 36.028 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   (1)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from
the taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in the state and
shall be remitted by such retailer to the Department.
      (2)   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by
this subchapter and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be
remitted to the Department shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the
state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to
the gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications, when sold for use, in the manner prescribed by the
Department.
      (3)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall constitute a debt of
the taxpayer to the retailer until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law
in the same manner as the original charge for such sale at retail. If the
retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be
required to pay the tax directly to the Department in the manner provided by
the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-4)
§ 36.029 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   Commencing on 2-1-2003, the tax imposed under this subchapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the state’s Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (Pub. Act No. 92-526, § 5-50), being 35
ILCS 5/1 et seq. and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the
Department to implement this Act.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-5)
§ 36.030 RESELLERS.
   (A)   (1)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims
to be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number.
      (2)   Such applicant shall state facts which will show the Department why
such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by this subchapter on any
of such purchases and shall furnish such additional information as the
Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   (1)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
      (2)   The Department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications
tax-free when such actions in fact are not for resale or which no longer
applies because of the person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in the state shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-6)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 36.045 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges: persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within city and not for
resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-1)
§ 36.046 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with respect
to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which
such business may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United
States, be made subject to taxation by the state or any political subdivision
thereof; nor shall any person engaged in the business of distributing,
supplying, furnishing or selling gas, water, be subject to taxation under the
provisions of this subchapter for such transactions as are or may become
subject to taxation under the provisions of this section for such transactions
as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq. authorized by 65
ILCS 5/8-11-1, nor shall any tax authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon
any person engaged in the business unless such tax is imposed in like manner
and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in the business of the same class
in the municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-2)
§ 36.047 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or value of products
or services furnished to the municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for
the use of its streets, alleys or other public places or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-3)
§ 36.048 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale and the
consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing and the
consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water
for use or consumption and not for resale, except for that consideration
received from the city; and for all services rendered in connection therewith
valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash,
credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all services
rendered therewith and shall be determined without any deduction on account of
the cost of transmitting such messages without any deduction on account of the
service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-4)
§ 36.049 REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   On or before 10-31-2003, each taxpayer shall make a return to the City
Treasurer for the months of July, August and September, 2003, stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for a corresponding
three-month period.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that, in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-5)
§ 36.050 CREDIT FOR OVER PAYMENT.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that, no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-6)
TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS CODE
§ 36.085 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Code”.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-1)
§ 36.086 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s procedures in
connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2)
§ 36.087 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 20 ILCS 2520/
1 et seq.
   CITY. The City of Carrollton, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-3)
§ 36.088 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-4)
§ 36.089 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-5)
§ 36.090 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-6)
§ 36.091 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid the tax
voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to protest
the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under
duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or fewer years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that, there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the
taxpayer owes any moneys to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-7)
§ 36.092 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days, nor more than
30 days, from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event a taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   (1)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city.
      (2)   If the taxpayer or tax collector fails to provide the documents
necessary for audit within the time provided, the local tax administrator may
issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax administrator’s
determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-8)
§ 36.093 APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a
taxpayer upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of
tax due, a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any
tax.
      (2)   The notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The reason for the assessment;
         (b)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         (c)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         (d)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-9)
§ 36.094 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
36.093 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted, except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-10)
§ 36.095 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or non-payment of the tax to be 6% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties.
      (1)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by
the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax
required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment
penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be imposed.
      (2)   If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed.
      (3)   A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to
file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-11)
§ 36.096 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-13)
§ 36.097 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-14)
§ 36.098 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-14)
§ 36.099 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has
not received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment form the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application, but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed.
   (B)   However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the
amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with
applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the
result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the application
shall be deemed invalid and void.
   (C)   The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator.
   (D)   However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of
tax and interest previously paid under this section must be paid within 90 days
after a final determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional
amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax administrator, whichever is
longer.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-15)
§ 36.100 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-16)
§ 36.101 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-17)
§ 36.102 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the city’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-18)
CITY INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 36.115 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to outline the responsibilities, general
objectives and specific guidelines for management of public funds by the city.
Its scope includes all public funds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-11)
§ 36.116 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All investment policies and procedures of the city will be in
accordance with state law.
   (B)   The authority of the City Council to control and invest public funds
is defined in the state’s Public Funds Investment Act, being 30 ILCS 235/1 et
seq. and the investments permitted are described therein.
   (C)   Administration and execution of these policies are the responsibility
of the City Treasurer who is hereby designated as the Chief Investment Officer
of the city acting under the authority of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-12) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 36.117 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment
program is hereby delegated to the Chief Investment Officer.
   (B)   The Chief Investment Officer and by designation, the Mayor, is
responsible for establishing internal controls and written procedures for the
operation of the investment program.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-13)
§ 36.118 PRUDENT PERSON STANDARD.
   (A)   All city investment activities shall use a prudent person standard of
care.
   (B)   This standard shall be applied in the context of managing an overall
portfolio and specifies that investments shall be made with judgment and care,
under circumstances, then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived.
   (C)   Investment officers, acting in accordance with this policy and the
written procedures of the city and exercising due diligence, shall be relieved
of personal responsibility for a security’s credit risk or market price/value
changes; provided, deviations from expectations are reported in a timely
fashion and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-14)
§ 36.119 OBJECTIVES.
   In selecting financial institutions and investment instruments to be used,
the following general objectives should be considered in the priority listed:
   (A)   Legality; conforming with all legal requirements;
   (B)   Safety; preserving capital and including diversification appropriate
to the nature and amount of the funds;
   (C)   Liquidity; maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet current
obligations and those reasonably to be anticipated;
   (D)   Yield; attaining a market rate of return on investments; and
   (E)   Simplicity of management.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-15)
§ 36.120 GUIDELINES.
   The following guidelines should be used to meet the general investment
objectives.
   (A)   Legality and safety.
      (1)   Investments will be made only in securities guaranteed by the U.S.
Government or in FDIC-insured institutions including SAIF of the FDIC. Deposit
accounts in banks or savings and loan institutions will not exceed the amount
insured by FDIC coverage (unless adequately collateralized pursuant to
regulations of the Federal Reserve regarding custody and safekeeping of
collateral).
      (2)   Authorized investments include and will primarily consist of:
certificates of deposit, treasury bills and other securities guaranteed by the
U.S. Government, participation in the state’s Public Treasurer’s Investment
Pool and any other investments allowed under state law that satisfy the
investment objectives of the city.
   (B)   Liquidity. In general, investments should be managed to meet liquidity
needs for the current month, plus one month (based on forecasted needs), and
any reasonably anticipated special needs.
   (C)   Yield; return on investment.
      (1)   Within the constraints on state law, considerations of safety and
this investment policy, every effort should be made to maximize return on
investments made.
      (2)   All available funds will be placed in investments or kept in
interest bearing deposit accounts.
   (D)   Simplicity of management. The time required by the City Council to
manage investments shall be kept to a minimum.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-16)
§ 36.121 REPORTING.
   (A)   Investments, fund balances and the status of such accounts will be
reported at each regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council and shall at
least quarterly include information regarding securities in the portfolio by
class or type, book value, income earned and market value as of the report
date.
   (B)   At least annually, the Chief Investment Officer shall review this
policy for any needed modifications and report to the City Council on the
investment portfolio, its effectiveness in meeting the city’s need for safety,
liquidity, rate of return, diversification and general performance.
   (C)   These reports will be available to the general public upon request.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-17)
§ 36.122 INTERNAL CONTROLS.
   In addition to these guidelines, the Chief Investment Officer shall
establish a system of internal controls and written operational procedures
designed to prevent loss, theft or misuse of funds.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-18)
§ 36.123 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   Any investment advisors, money managers and financial institutions
shall be considered and authorized only by the action of the City Council upon
the recommendation of the Chief Investment Officer.
   (B)   The Chief Investment Officer will maintain a list of financial dealers
and institutions authorized to provide investment service.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-19)
§ 36.124 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activities that might conflict with the proper execution and
management of this investment program or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions or that could give the appearance of impropriety.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-20)
CITY FUNDS POLICY
§ 36.135 FUNDS SOURCE.
   All actions of the City Council, whether by motion, resolution or ordinance,
for the purchase of materials, supplies, equipment, fixtures or land, or, for
the letting of any contract for service, maintenance, repair or improvement or
for the expenditure, transfer, donation or distribution of municipal funds,
relative to the above, exceeding the sum of $1,000, shall require, as part of
the motion, resolution or ordinance, identification of the fund or funds source
from which the expenditure shall be made, specification of the date or dates
for which such purchase, expenditure, donation or transfer shall be made and
both a preliminary reading and approval and a second or final reading and
approval, to be made not sooner than the next regular Council meeting to
follow, prior to becoming final.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-22)
§ 36.136 CITY TREASURER’S REPORT.
   All actions of the City Council for the purchase, expenditure, transfer,
donation or distribution of funds as specified in §
36.135 of this chapter, as preliminary read and approved shall be presented to
the City Treasurer who shall prepare a report to be presented to the next
regularly scheduled Finance Committee meeting identifying the fund or funds
available for such expenditures, the first date of availability of such funds,
any special restrictions in use of funds or the necessity of transfers of funds
or liquidation of investments anticipated to be required to meet the financial
requirements of the action and any recommendation of the Treasurer regarding
payment.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-23) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 36.137 FINANCE COMMITTEE’S RECOMMENDATION.
   Prior to the second reading and final approval of all such actions as
specified in §
36.135 of this chapter, the Finance Committee shall make such recommendations
concerning adoption, amendment or withdrawal of the action, accompanied by the
report of the City Treasurer, as the Committee shall determine in the best
interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-24) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 36.138 FINAL APPROVAL BY COUNCIL.
   Upon such second reading and final approval as provided herein, the action
shall take effect on the date specified therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-25)
§ 36.139 EMERGENCY APPROVAL.
   In the event of a disaster, major breakdown of machinery, equipment or other
emergency, requiring the immediate purchase of equipment or machinery or
expenditure of money for repairs, the City Council may by a three-fourths
majority vote, override the requirements of this section hereof and adopt
immediate emergency relief.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-26)
§ 36.140 REIMBURSEMENT OF FUND TRANSFER.
   All actions to transfer funds from the city general corporate account to
other boards or funds of the city shall be upon an emergency basis only, and,
shall specify the terms for repayment or reimbursement of the general corporate
fund by such boards or funds, except for fund transfers required by existing
contracts, ordinances and made in the ordinary course of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-27)
§ 36.141 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR TRANSFERS.
   All investments of the city and of the various boards of the city shall be
made, liquidated or transferred after approval by the governing board and
presentation to the city’s Finance Committee for recommendation to and approval
by the City Council prior to final action.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-28)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent
return or who willingly violates any other provision of §§
36.045 through
36.050 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
10.99(B) of this code of ordinances and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-7) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2
CHAPTER 37: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Declaration of emergency
   
37.03   Curfew
   
37.04   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
37.05   Effectiveness
   
37.06   Notification
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons
acting together without authority of law; or any natural disaster or human-made
calamity, including flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion within the corporate limits of the city resulting in the death or
injury of persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that
extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city, excepting
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to the civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 37.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency, as defined in §
37.01 of this chapter, exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means
of a written declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 37.03 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to the city
as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable during such hours of the
day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety
and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 37.04 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 37.05 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to
reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 37.06 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the city and shall cause three copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the city:
   (A)   City Hall;
   (B)   The post office; and
   (C)   The county courthouse.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
CHAPTER 38: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
38.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 38.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2019-637, passed 10-12-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
53.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Utility Departments
   
50.001   Waterworks and Sewage Department
   
50.002   Water and Sewer Committee
   
50.003   Superintendent
   
50.004   Duties of Superintendent
Contract for Utility Services
   
50.015   Customer accepts service
   
50.016   Not liable for interrupted service
   
50.017   Using services without paying
   
50.018   Destroying property
   
50.019   Service obtained by fraud
   
50.020   Failure to receive bill
   
50.021   Request to discontinue service
   
50.022   Billing; rate increases
   
50.023   Dispute, liens and foreclosure
   
50.024   Reinstatement and other requests
Service Regulations
   
50.035   Consumer lists
   
50.036   Liability for charges
   
50.037   Estimated charge
   
50.038   Leak policy
   
50.039   No free utility service
   
50.040   Utility deposits
Utility Rates, Generally
   
50.055   Definition
   
50.056   Revenues
   
50.057   Accounts
   
50.058   Notice of rates
   
50.059   Access to records
   
50.060   Appeals
Water Rates
   
50.075   Water tap-on fees
   
50.076   State Plumbing Code
   
50.077   Maintenance of water lines
   
50.078   Water rates
   
50.079   Sewer rates
Wastewater Service Charges
   
50.090   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
50.091   Measurement of flow
   
50.092   User charge system
   
50.093   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
50.094   Surcharge rate
   
50.095   Sewer tap-in fee
   
50.096   Industrial surcharge
UTILITY DEPARTMENTS
§ 50.001 WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be an executive department of the city known as the Waterworks
and Sewage Department. It shall include the Water and Sewer Superintendent and
employees of the Department. The designated office shall be the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-1)
§ 50.002 WATER AND SEWER COMMITTEE.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Water and Sewer shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Departments. They shall ascertain
the condition and needs thereof; and shall, from time to time, report the same
to the Mayor and City Council so that a full understanding thereof shall be
had; and, generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of
the departments.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-2)
§ 50.003 SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Departments shall be subject
to the supervision of the Water and Sewer Committee and Mayor and shall be
hereinafter be referred to as the Superintendent.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council, and shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   He or she shall receive such salary as may be provided by the annual
budget of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-3) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 50.004 DUTIES OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall exercise general management and control over his or
her respective Department.
   (A)   He or she shall supervise over and be responsible for the conduct and
performance of all employees of the Department as a department head in
accordance with the following sections of this code of ordinances: §§
150.20 through
150.41;
Ch. 152,
154, and
155; §§
156.01 through
156.09; and §§
156.40 through
156.42.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the city’s water system or sewerage system as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures and property provided by the city for the use of his of her
Department.
   (D)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and make such
inspections, measurements and tests as necessary for that purpose.
   (E)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the provisions of this chapter or by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-4) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
CONTRACT FOR UTILITY SERVICES
§ 50.015 CUSTOMER ACCEPTS SERVICE.
   The rates, rules and regulations contained in this chapter shall constitute
and be considered a part of the contract with every person, company or
corporation who is supplied with water and sewer services from the waterworks
and sewerage system and every person, company or corporation, hereinafter
called a “customer”, who accepts and uses city water and sewer services, shall
be held to have consented to be bound thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1)
§ 50.016 NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTED SERVICE.
   The Department shall endeavor at all times to provide a regular and
uninterrupted supply of service; however, in case the supply of service shall
be interrupted, irregular or defective, or fail from causes beyond its control
or through ordinary negligence of employees, servants or agents, the Department
shall not be liable therefor.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1)
§ 50.017 USING SERVICES WITHOUT PAYING.
   Any person using utility services from the city without paying therefor, or
who shall be found guilty of breaking the seal of any meter or appurtenances or
bypassing any meter, shall be guilty of violating this chapter and, upon
conviction, shall be fined a sum as provided in §
10.99(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.018 DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   Any person found guilty of defacing, tampering, injuring or destroying, or
in any manner limiting the use or availability of any meter or any property of
the waterworks system and sewerage system, or erecting signs on the property of
the Department without permission, shall, upon conviction of such act, be fined
as provided in §
10.99(B) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.019 SERVICE OBTAINED BY FRAUD.
   (A)   All contracts for water and sewer services shall be made in the name
of the head of the household, firm or corporation using the established
spelling of that person’s or firm’s name.
   (B)   Attempts to obtain service by the use of other names, different
spellings or by substituting other persons or firms shall be considered a
subterfuge and service shall be denied.
   (C)   If service has been discontinued because of non-payment of bills, or
any unpaid obligation and service has again been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation or fraud, that service shall be promptly disconnected and the
whole or such part of the advanced payment as may be necessary to satisfy the
unpaid obligation shall be retained by the city and credited to the appropriate
account.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1)
§ 50.020 FAILURE TO RECEIVE BILL.
   Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a customer from his or her
obligation to pay within the time specified. Should the Department be unable to
bill a customer for services used during any month, the following billing shall
include the charges for services used during the unbilled month.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1)
§ 50.021 REQUEST TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   Services shall have been deemed to have been supplied to any property
connected to the water and sewer systems during a month unless the customer
notifies the city prior to the first day of the new billing month in which the
services are to be discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1)
§ 50.022 BILLING; RATE INCREASES.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B) Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Ord. 18-624, passed 4-12-2018) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 50.023 DISPUTE, LIENS AND FORECLOSURE.
   (A) Dispute.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of non-payment of the bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for
application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the
title, address, room number and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable.
      (2)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time the customer must appear in person and
may be represented by an attorney, and at which the customer or the attorney
may present orally or in writing the customer’s complaint to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This city official shall be authorized to order
that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to
make a final determination regarding the customer’s complaint.
      (3)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (B)   Lien notice of delinquency.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for such utility services remains unpaid for 60
days after it has been issued, the Public Works Director shall file with the
county’s Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount, as well as for
all unpaid utility service charges incurred subsequent to the period covered by
the bill, and for recording fees and all other disconnection and reconnection
fees.
      (2)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the Public Works Director has notice of this, notice of the delinquency and
the possible lien filing as provided in division (B)(1) above shall also be
mailed to the owner of the premises if the owner’s address is known to the
Public Works Director, whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of 30
days after it has been issued.
      (3)   The failure of the Public Works Director to record such lien or to
mail such delinquency notice or the failure of the owner to receive such
delinquency notice shall not affect the right of the city to foreclose the lien
for unpaid bills as provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges may
be sold for non- payment of the same at the discretion of the city, and the
proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting all
costs incurred by the city, as in the case of foreclosure of statutory liens.
The City Attorney is hereby authorized to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which the bill for utility services has remained unpaid for 60
days.
(Ord. 18-624, passed 4-12-2018)
§ 50.024 REINSTATEMENT AND OTHER REQUESTS.
   (A)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for non-payment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for utility service due have been paid as provided in §
50.023(B)(1) through (B)(3) of this chapter, and any deposit, if required by
the city to ensure future payment for utility services, has been paid. All such
requests for reinstatement, if not received by 2:30 p.m., will be accommodated
on the first business day following the request. An applicant for such
reinstatement who submits a request after 2:30 p.m. shall have the option to
pay all additional costs incurred by the city, including overtime costs paid to
city employees, to obtain reinstatement on that day.
   (B)   Further, all other requests unrelated to reinstatement after
discontinuance due to non- payment, for either turning water service on or
turning water service off, if not received by 2:30 p.m. during regular business
hours, will be accommodated on the first business day following the request. A
$20 fee shall be paid at the time of each such request. An applicant requesting
that water service be turned on or turned off who submits a request after 2:30
p.m. during regular business hours shall have the option to pay a $20 fee, plus
all additional costs incurred by the city, including overtime costs paid to the
city employees, to turn the water service on or off on that day.
(Ord. 18-624, passed 4-12-2018)
SERVICE REGULATIONS
§ 50.035 CONSUMER LISTS.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Clerk to prepare or cause to be prepared a
complete and accurate list of all premises and properties receiving utility
services, showing the name and address of the occupant and the owner of the
same. The list shall be kept up-to-date and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises. It shall be presented at the regular monthly meeting if requested.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-2)
§ 50.036 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of land or premises and the user of the
services shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the services
to such lot, parcel of land or premises, and all services are rendered to the
premises by the city only on the condition that such owner, occupant and user
shall be jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-3)
§ 50.037 ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or from any cause
fails to properly register the utilities passing through the same, the consumer
shall be charged the average charge of the previous three months’ usage. If no
record of the previous three months exists, then it shall be the duty of the
Water Clerk to estimate the amount of utilities consumed during the time the
meter fails to operate and the consumer shall be charged with such estimated
amount. Bills may be estimated whenever it is impossible to read the meters
during inclement weather.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-4)
§ 50.038 LEAK POLICY.
   The following policies are hereby adopted for water leaks.
   (A)   Water. The city will determine the customer’s average monthly water
consumption for the three months prior to the leak. Subtract this average from
the present bill. The remaining leaked water amount will then be divided into
half with the customer paying the average of the last three months plus one-
half of the leaked water. The city will be responsible for the remaining half
of the leaked amount. If the city is unable to read the meters because of
severe temperatures for one month and a customer has a leak, then the customer
will pay one-half of the leak and the city will pay one-half. If the city has
been unable to read the meters for two months, the city will pay 75% of the
leak and the customer 25% of the leak. If the city could not read the meters
for three months, then the city would pay all but one-half of one month.
   (B)   Sewer. If a water leak occurs between the meter and the house, then no
additional charge for sewer service is incurred. The bill would be based on an
average of the previous three months. If the water leak occurs from within the
customer’s house and city sewers were used, then the customer and the city pay
one-half of the leaked amount based on the customer’s previous three months’
average bill.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-5)
§ 50.039 NO FREE UTILITY SERVICE.
   No free utility service shall be furnished to any person, public or private,
and all rates and charges shall be non-discriminatory; provided that, the Mayor
and City Council reserve the right to impose special rates and charges in cases
where particular circumstances render the regular rates inadequate or unjust.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.040 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   When any application is made for utility services for rental or
leased in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, all applicants for
which the service is requested shall deposit with the application the amount of
$100.
      (2)   When the amount of the deposit provided for above is not sufficient
to adequately protect the department, a greater amount than stated above may be
required, based on the consumer’s estimated bill for a customary billing
period.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial. In the case of a commercial or industrial
user, the advanced payment for each utility shall be a minimum of $100 or an
amount determined by the City Council, based upon the history of similar
establishments. Where the amount of the deposit provided herein is not
sufficient to adequately protect the Utility Department, a greater amount than
stated above may be required, based on the consumer’s estimated bill for a
customary period.
   (C)   Security for payment; no interest.
      (1)   The deposits made under the provisions of this chapter shall be
held by the city as security for the payment of utility services used by the
applicant upon the premises to which his or her application pertains, and may
be so applied when any default is made in the payment in the utilities bill in
accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   The depositor shall earn no interest.
   (D)   Liability for deposit. The owner of the premises and the tenant
thereof shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the required deposit
herein established before water and sewer facilities are made available to the
tenant-occupied premises. In the case a portion of the deposit is used as
aforesaid, the tenant or owner of the premises shall immediately deposit with
the City Clerk an amount sufficient to bring the deposit to the established
rate of deposit. (Note: the person renting is obligated to pay the deposit
unless the owner opts to pay the deposit. Only one deposit required.)
(Prior Code, § 38-2-7)
UTILITY RATES, GENERALLY
§ 50.055 DEFINITION.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it an
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual customer or
such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one minimum
water and/or sewer account according to the number of families or individual
residents residing therein.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-1)
§ 50.056 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water and
sewer systems shall be deposited in the Combined Water and Sewer Fund. All such
revenues and moneys shall be held by the Water Clerk separate and apart from
his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city and
all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the
Water Clerk not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such more
frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the City Council.
   (B)   The Water Clerk shall receive all such revenues from the water and
sewer systems and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of such
systems as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the Water and Sewage Fund of the city. The
Water Clerk shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided
by 65 ILCS.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-2)
§ 50.057 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Water Clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the water and sewer systems and,
at regular annual intervals, she or he shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water and sewer systems.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual
audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do, in fact,
meet these regulations.
      (2)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
         (a)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
         (b)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
         (c)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
         (d)   Number of users connected to the system;
         (e)   Number of non-metered users; and
         (f)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial
users) and volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-3)
§ 50.058 NOTICE OF RATES.
   (A)   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the City Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the county’s Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the water and sewer
systems of the city on its properties.
   (B)   Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-4)
§ 50.059 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The state’s Environmental Protection Agency and United States Environmental
Protection Agency or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the
city’s system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any state
grant.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-5)
§ 50.060 APPEALS.
   (A)   The method for computation of rates and service charges established
for user charges in §§
50.055 through
50.060,
50.075 through
50.079 and
50.090 through
50.096 of this chapter shall be made available to a user within 15 days of
receipt of a written request for such.
   (B)   Any disagreement over the method used, or in the computation thereof,
shall be remedied by a third party selected by both parties within 90 days
after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-6)
WATER RATES
§ 50.075 WATER TAP-ON FEES.
   (A)   Inside city. Applicants for water service inside the city shall pay a
charge of:
      (1)   Four hundred dollars, plus the cost of parts, labor, boring and
trenching, if necessary, for a five-eighths-inch tap;
      (2)   Six hundred and fifty dollars, plus the costs of parts, labor,
boring and trenching, if necessary, for a one-inch tap;
      (3)   One thousand dollars, plus the costs of parts, labor, boring and
trenching, if necessary, for a one and one-half-inch tap; and
      (4)   One thousand and two hundred dollars, plus the cost of parts,
labor, boring and trenching for a two-inch tap.
   (B)   Anyone requesting water service must annex into the city to receive
city water. This does not apply to those individuals outside the city limits
who are currently receiving water service.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-10)
§ 50.076 STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   All water tap and service connections made to the mains of the waterworks
system of the city shall conform to the regulations of this chapter and of the
state’s Plumbing Code, being 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890. All connections and
installations shall be made by the city’s Water and Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-11)
§ 50.077 MAINTENANCE OF WATER LINES.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall replace all water mains when it has been deemed
necessary to do so in order to maintain service in the city.
      (2)   The city shall limit its responsibility to maintaining water lines
to the water mains and to the service lines up to the meter or curb stop at the
property line.
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for the service line from the
meter into the premises served.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-12)
§ 50.078 WATER RATES.
   There shall be established the following rates and charges for the use of
the water system of the city based upon the amount of water consumed as
follows.
   (A)   Water rates.
 
First 2,000 gallons per month $25.50 minimum charge
Over  2,000 gallons per month $13.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Facilities charge. A facilities charge of $3 per month shall be
assessed for each water meter.
   (C)   Offset. An assessment of $0.76 to offset the cost of mandated testing
of water treatment application points and their associated wells.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-13) (Ord. 19-630, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 50.079 SEWER RATES.
   See §
50.092 for details.
 
First 2,000 gallons per month $15.90 minimum charge
Over  2,000 gallons per month $9.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Prior Code, § 38-4-14) (Ord. 19-631, passed 3-14-2019)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 50.090 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance, plus replacement, applicable surcharges, monthly
minimum user charge and debt service charge.
   (A)   The debt service charge is computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding bonds by the number of users.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters for wastes having the following normal domestic concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand BOD of 200 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 250 mg/l.
   (C)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs, plus replacement,
and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all work categories;
      (3)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, suspended solids and
BOD;
      (4)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
      (5)   Compute surcharge costs per pound per 1,000 gallons in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (D)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose wastewaters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD 200 mg/l and SS 250 mg/l. The surcharge
will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for
all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively. Section 50.094 of this chapter specifies the procedure to compute
a surcharge.
   (E)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not
less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in operation and maintenance costs,
replacement costs and reserve fund costs.
   (F)   The capital improvement charge is levied on users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the sewage treatment
works. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual
amount to be accrued as a charge per 1,000 gallons.
   (G)   The users of wastewater treatment services will be notified annually,
in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance and replacement.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-31)
§ 50.091 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
1,000 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the approving authority if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
   (C)   (1)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed and maintained by the person and owned by the city.
      (2)   Following approval and installation, such meters may not be
removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-32)
§ 50.092 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   The following rates are established for the user charge system:
   (A)   A minimum monthly service charge of $6.52 per month to all users of
the sewer system. This charge shall include the first 2,000 gallons, or portion
thereof, of wastewater discharged to the sewer system. Below is a breakdown:
 
Debt service                                             $2.29
Fixed billing costs                                      $0.11
Operation, maintenance and replacement for 2,000 gallons $4.12
 
   (B)   A service charge rate of $3.22 per 1,000 gallons for each and every
1,000 gallons or portion thereof, over the first 2,000 gallons to all users of
the sewer system. The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the
annual debt service of all outstanding bonds by the annual metered water usage
plus an estimate of water usage for non-metered users. Below is a break down:
 
Operation, maintenance and replacement $2.07
Debt service                           $1.15
 
   (C)   An unmetered user charge for $12.50 per month per residential unit for
residential users who do not have water or sewer meters.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-33)
§ 50.093 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula.
 
CW = CD + CM + Cu (Vu) + CS
NOTES TO TABLE:
CW: Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period
CD: Debt service charge
CM: Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (see §
50.092)
Vu: Wastewater volume for the billing period
Cu: Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (see §
50.092)
CS: Amount of surcharge (see §
50.094 of this chapter)
 
(Prior Code, § 34-4-34)
§ 50.094 SURCHARGE RATE.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as follows:
 
Per lb. of BOD $0.26 In excess of 300 mg/l
Per lb. of SS  $0.39 In excess of 220 mg/l
 
(Prior Code, § 34-4-35)
§ 50.095 SEWER TAP-IN FEE.
   Any premises connected to the sewerage system, a charge of $250 shall be
made for such connection. However, if no riser exists and main line has to be
tapped, the customer shall be liable for all expenses, including labor and
materials. Whenever any premises shall hereafter be connected to the system for
any purpose, and in order to make the connection, it requires the crossing of a
state, county or township road, a minimum additional charge of $100 or actual
cost of labor and materials, whichever sum is greater, shall be made for such
connection.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-36)
§ 50.096 INDUSTRIAL SURCHARGE.
   (A)   An industrial surcharge in addition to the user charge rate shall be
assessed to cover the proportional cost for treatment of the additional
contaminant loading from higher strength wastes.
   (B)   (1)   The surcharge for BOD and SS shall be applicable only if both of
the following two conditions are met:
         (a)   The concentration of BOD exceeds 300 mg/l or suspended solids
exceed 390 mg/l; and
         (b)   The mass loading per employee per eight-hour shift for BOD
exceeds 0.057 pounds or, for suspended solids, exceeds 0.073 pounds.
      (2)   If both of these conditions are met, then the surcharge shall apply
to that portion of each parameter which exceeds the above concentration. The
city shall have the authority to assess a surcharge on any other parameter
discharged in concentrations higher than found in normal domestic sewage.
   (C)   Industrial users shall be billed an additional charge to cover the
cost of wastewater monitoring proportionate to the number of times per year
their class of user is sampled.
   (D)   There shall be billed, as required, additional charges for the
following:
      (1)   Actual costs incurred for user requested sampling and analyses;
      (2)   Actual costs incurred for special handling or other user services
not provided for elsewhere in this chapter; and
      (3)   Actual costs incurred for handling a user’s check with insufficient
funds.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-37)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Application for taps and service connections
   
51.002   All service to be by meter
   
51.003   Inspection
   
51.004   Meter damaged
   
51.005   Damage due to interruption of service; liability
   
51.006   Resale
   
51.007   Discontinuing service; dangerous usage
   
51.008   Electric ground wires
   
51.009   Water for building or construction purposes
   
51.010   Fire hydrants
   
51.011   Limited water usage in emergencies
   
51.012   Shortage and purity of supply
   
51.013   Non-compliance with rules and regulations
   
51.014   Easements
   
51.015   Use of water on consumer’s premises
   
51.016   Removal of meters
   
51.017   Rules to become part of contract
   
51.018   Installing and maintaining service lines
   
51.019   Allocation of maintenance costs between user and city
   
51.020   City not liable for interruption of supply
   
51.021   Water well permits required
   
51.022   Abandoned connection
   
51.023   Water wells
Cross-Connection Administration
   
51.035   Approved backflow device
   
51.036   Cross-connection prohibited; exception
   
51.037   Investigations by Superintendent
   
51.038   Right to enter premises
   
51.039   Notice to customer; reconnect fee
   
51.040   Contaminations, cost and the consumer
Cross-Connection Control Code
   
51.055   Purpose
   
51.056   Application
   
51.057   Responsibility of owner
   
51.058   Definitions
   
51.059   Water system, generally
   
51.060   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.061   Survey and investigations
   
51.062   Where protection is required
   
51.063   Type of protection required
   
51.064   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.065   Inspection and maintenance
   
51.066   Booster pumps
Extension of Mains
   
51.080   Main extension agreements
   
51.081   Easements
   
51.082   Size and type
   
51.083   Title
   
51.084   Maintenance and replacement
Setback Zone Requirements
   
51.095   Purpose
   
51.096   Definitions
   
51.097   Prohibitions
   
51.098   Waivers, exceptions and certifications of minimal hazard
   
51.099   Exclusion
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the waterworks
system of the city shall file a written application at the City Hall, signed by
the owner of the property for which the tap or service connection is desired or
by the duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall be
accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the cost of
such service connection. In the event the application is made by an agent for
the owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the written
authority of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-1)
§ 51.002 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use shall
be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing and so as to be
free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building shall be set in a
suitable meter box approved by the Water and Sewer Committee. Water shall not
be turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed and all
other requirements of this chapter on the part of the property owner have been
fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-2)
§ 51.003 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access to premises. The city shall have access to all portions of the
premises of the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use of
water and the consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing and any other apparatus in
any manner connected to the waterworks system of the city. The city shall have
the right and option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any
repair, change, removal or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing or other
apparatus that would in any manner affect the water supply or system of the
city or the supply or fixtures of other consumers.
   (B)   Meters to be open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections and appurtenances on private property connected with the waterworks
system of the city shall be open to the inspection of the proper officers and
employees of the city at all reasonable hours.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-3)
§ 51.004 METER DAMAGED.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus or for any
other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the city for
the actual cost of the removal, repair and replacement of the damaged meter and
all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated basis to cover such
period as it appears that the meter was out of order for such damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-4)
§ 51.005 DAMAGE DUE TO INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; LIABILITY.
   All connections for the water services applied for hereunder and all
connections now attached to the present city waterworks system and all use or
service of the system shall be upon the express condition that the city will
not be liable for, nor shall any claim be made against it for, damages or
injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main, service, pipe, apparatus
or appurtenance connected with the waterworks system or for any interruption of
the supply of water by reason of the breaking of machinery or by reason of
stoppages, alterations or renewals.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-5)
§ 51.006 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient or consumer thereof
from the city supply to any premises other than that for which application has
been made and the meter installed, except in cases of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-6) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 DISCONTINUING SERVICE; DANGEROUS USAGE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to refuse water service or to
discontinue water service, without notice, at any time to any consumer if the
city finds any apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be
detrimental to the water system of the city or to any or all of its consumers.
   (B)   Standpipes, hydrants, gate valves and any other apparatus that cause
water hammer or any danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing
shall be immediately repaired or removed upon notice from the city or, at its
option, the city may immediately discontinue service without notice and without
any liability for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-7)
§ 51.008 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   (A)   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire
to any plumbing or water piping, which is or may be connected to any water
service pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the city.
   (B)   The city shall hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable
for any damage to the property or injury to the employees of the city caused by
such ground wire.
   (C)   (1)   Any and all owners and consumers shall remove any existing
ground wires immediately upon written notice from the city.
      (2)   If not so disconnected five days after notice, the city, through
its officials, may enter the property and remove such ground wires and the
consumer shall pay all costs.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-8) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Applicants desiring to use water from the city waterworks system for
building or construction purposes shall make application therefor to the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department on a form provided by the
Water and Sewer Department for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon a permit being granted, the service pipe shall be carried at the
expense of the applicant to the inside of the curb line where a service cock
and meter shall be placed with pipe leading to the surface and a faucet placed
at the end thereof above the surface. When the building or construction is
completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off unless
permanent connection is made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Charge for the use and connection of the meter shall be prescribed by the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-9)
§ 51.010 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   (1)   All public fire hydrants with gate valves, tees and connections
from the main, inside the city limits, shall be owned, maintained and used only
by the city and shall be solely responsible for same.
      (2)   Use of water from fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be
only upon permission by the city and after approved application to the city.
   (B)   The city shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside of the
city limits or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom or any
damage either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure or amount
of water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   (1)   All public fire hydrants located outside the city limits owned
by the city shall be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but
the city will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for their
condition or use or abuse.
      (2)   Such public fire hydrants shall be used only for the purpose of
extinguishing fires, except when the city may issue a special permit for their
use to contractors, who shall then be responsible for the hydrants and the use
of water from them.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-10) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.011 LIMITED WATER USAGE IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to proclaim the existence of an
emergency whenever it appears that the city water supply is inadequate for all
general uses and purposes, which proclamation shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the community and the Mayor is further authorized to
declare in similar manner the end of an emergency period.
   (B)   From and after the publication of a proclamation as provided for in
division (A) above, the following uses of water shall be prohibited:
      (1)   The washing of cars and other vehicles;
      (2)   The sprinkling of lawns and shrubbery;
      (3)   The watering of gardens; and
      (4)   Other non-essential uses.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to so use water from the city
supply during such an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-11) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.012 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The city shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer or public body for any claim or damage, either direct
or resultant because of any shortage of water supply, any shutoff of water for
any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or city’s mains,
pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water supply or any fire or
water damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 51.013 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If any consumer fails to comply with any of the rules and regulations
in force, the city shall notify the consumer of such failure.
   (B)   If the consumer does not remedy the same as the rules provide and
within a reasonable time, the city shall have the right to discontinue service.
   (C)   Except in case of non-payment, emergency, necessity or as otherwise
provided, the city will not discontinue service for violation of any rule until
five days after notice has been given and the violation has not been remedied.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-13) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.014 EASEMENTS.
   The consumer shall give such easements and rights-of-way as necessary to the
city and allow access for the purpose of construction, repair, maintenance,
meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water system. The necessity shall
be determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-14)
§ 51.015 USE OF WATER ON CONSUMER’S PREMISES.
   The city shall reserve the right to use the water from the consumer’s
facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge shall be made by the
consumer for the use of the facilities and no charge shall be made by the city
for the water used by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-15)
§ 51.016 REMOVAL OF METERS.
   All meters shall remain the property of the Department and may be removed
from the customer’s premises at any time without notice for the purpose of
testing and repairing the same or upon discontinuance of service. Upon
discovery of any unlawful act by any customer, his or her agent, or his or her
employee herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with any other rules and
regulations of the Department, such service shall be disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-16)
§ 51.017 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water system and the consumption of water shall be adopted and the same shall
become part of the contract with every water consumer and every water consumer
shall be considered to take water from the city, subject thereto and bound
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-17)
§ 51.018 INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   (1)   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance
of service lines between the meter and the residence or business. Such service
lines must be at least three-fourths of an inch in diameter and must be
installed at a minimum depth of three feet.
      (2)   Service lines must have a minimum working pressure rating of 160
psi at 73.4°F and must be constructed of one of the following types of
materials: copper, (Type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene or
polybutylene. Service lines shall not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   The user shall not connect any service line or any plumbing connected
with the service line to any other water source. The service line shall meet
all requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency’s rules and
regulations, the state’s Plumbing Code, being 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 and the
regulations in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-18)
§ 51.019 ALLOCATION OF MAINTENANCE COSTS BETWEEN USER AND CITY.
   The city shall maintain and repair all water service pipes between the water
mains and the curb lines. Any repairs to service lines or taps between the
water mains and the sidewalk or property line shall be the city’s expense. Any
repairs or renewals of water service pipes between the property line or curb
line and extending to the owner’s premises shall be made at the sole expense of
the consumer or owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-19)
§ 51.020 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of water whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for any notice
as circumstances allow, will be given to consumers, but, in emergencies, the
water may be shut off without notice. All hot water faucets shall be left open
during any shutoff to prevent damage to plumbing. Such necessary work will be
done as rapidly as may be practical and whenever feasible at such times as will
cause the least inconvenience. The city shall not be held responsible for or
liable because of any shutoff of supply for any direct or resultant damages to
any person, company or consumer or to any pipe, fixtures or plumbing.
   (B)   (1)   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants or other
industrial use shall not be furnished by direct pressure from the mains, but
only to tanks holding ample reserve supply.
      (2)   Should any equipment be supplied direct from mains, then in case of
any shutoff of water, the city will not be held responsible or liable for any
direct or resulting damage because of interrupted supply, insufficient pressure
or otherwise.
   (C)   Whenever water mains, pipes and service connections are taken up, shut
off or interfered with by reason of any city street improvements, the city will
endeavor to maintain service so far as reasonably possible, but will not be
directly or indirectly liable for any interruption, poor pressure or damage of
any kind either to consumers, adjacent or to other consumers affected thereby.
   (D)   The city expressly stipulates with all its consumers and other persons
that it will not ensure or be responsible or liable in any manner for any
losses, or damages, direct or resultant by reason of any fire, and all water
service furnished shall always be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable
accidents, fire, strikes, riots, war or any other cause not within the
reasonable control of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-20)
§ 51.021 WATER WELL PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to drill a water well in the city without the proper
permits from the state and the City Council. All wells shall comply with §§
51.055 through
51.066 of this chapter. No wells shall be drilled when the property is within
200 feet of the municipal water main.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 ABANDONED CONNECTION.
   Whenever any connection to the waterworks system is abandoned, because the
building to which the water connection is made has been abandoned, destroyed or
removed, the Superintendent may remove the meter and any pipe or connections in
the public right-of-way or easement, and cap, plug or otherwise seal the pipe
or main. Before taking any such steps, the Superintendent shall notify the
owner of the real estate if the owner’s name and address is known, and shall
notify the person shown on the real estate tax records as having paid taxes on
the property the last time taxes were paid. Such notice shall be made by mail
at least 30 days before any action is taken under this section. If water is
leaking, the Superintendent shall take immediate action and send the notices
within three working days of the time action was taken.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-22) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Use of ground water as a potable water supply prohibited. The use or
attempt to use a potable water supply ground water from within the corporate
limits of the city by the installation or drilling of wells or by other method
is hereby prohibited, except at points of withdrawal by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-58)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity, or his, her or
its legal representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes or preparing foods.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-60)
CROSS-CONNECTION ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.035 APPROVED BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the state’s Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If, in accordance with the
state’s Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the inspector, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the inspector shall give notice to the water customer to install such
an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code, the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the
state’s Plumbing Code, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and local
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-23)
§ 51.036 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply enters the supply or
distribution system of the city, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Superintendent and the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-24) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.037 INVESTIGATIONS BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years
or as often as the inspector shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-25)
§ 51.038 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections and that the inspector or his or her
authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection.
   (B)   On demand, the owner, lessee or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the inspector any information which he or she may request
regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property. The
refusal of such information when demanded shall, within the discretion of the
inspector, be evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-26)
§ 51.039 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER; RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of
$100 is paid to the City of Carrollton.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
inspector is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the inspector or the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply.
   (C)   The public water supply, the inspector or the agents or assigns shall
not be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues, which
may result from termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-27) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 51.040 CONTAMINATIONS, COST AND THE CONSUMER.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-28)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL CODE
§ 51.055 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public’s or consumer’s potable water system
and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems
containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-31)
§ 51.056 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the public potable
water supply system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-32)
§ 51.057 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage
of contaminants through the customers water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice to the consumer to
install such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to
the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his or her own expense; failure, refusal or inability on the part of
the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or
devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
maintenance, testing and repair as required in §
50.096(D) of this code of ordinances for a period of at least five years. The
Superintendent of Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection
inspection report to the city to assist in determining whether or not service
line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be
conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by the
state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-33)
§ 51.058 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The State Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; water from a source such as wells, lakes
or streams or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted or
contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over which
the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The backflow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the state’s
Plumbing Code and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A BUILDING PLUMBING SYSTEM is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check
valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe”, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the state’s Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Admin. Code 651.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically or
biologically, or otherwise, contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
      (1)   A device containing a minimum of two independently acting check
valves together with an automatically operated pressure differential relief
valve located between the two check valves and approved under ASSE Standard
1013.
      (2)   During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the
pressure between these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure.
      (3)   In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the check valves at less than the supply pressure.
      (4)   The unit must include tightly-closed shutoff valves located at each
end of the device and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-34)
§ 51.059 WATER SYSTEM, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-35)
§ 51.060 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
 
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-36) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request of the Superintendent, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   Testing and records.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e).
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-37)
§ 51.062 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where, in the judgment of the
Superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system
exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or system containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water, are not correctable or intricate plumbing
arrangements it make which impractical to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history or cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverages processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-38)
§ 51.063 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
51.062 of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
51.062 of this chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention connected to the
public water supply.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-39) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 51.064 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-40)
§ 51.065 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by
passed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter and required service performed
within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-41)
§ 51.066 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-42)
EXTENSION OF MAINS
§ 51.080 MAIN EXTENSION AGREEMENTS.
   Upon application for water service in areas not served by a city-owned water
main, the city may, with approval of the City Council, authorize the extension
of the main. The first 100 feet of any such extension, with the owner to bear
all other expense, both for materials and installation, incurred in the
construction of any such extension.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-53)
§ 51.081 EASEMENTS.
   Applicants for main extensions shall deliver, without cost to the city,
permanent easements or right-of-way when necessary for the installation and
maintenance of the extensions or subsequent additions thereto. The city shall
not be obligated to authorize any construction until all requirements of this
subchapter have been met.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-54)
§ 51.082 SIZE AND TYPE.
   The city reserves the right to determine and specify the diameter and type
of pipe required to provide the service requested and subject to the
requirements of municipal authorities, its location within or without the
limits of a street. The city further reserves the right to install a main
larger in diameter than the main required to render the service requested, in
which case, the city will pay the difference in cost.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-55)
§ 51.083 TITLE.
   (A)   Title to all main extensions shall be vested in the city and the city
shall have the right to further extend any main installed in and to other
streets or premises without repayment or refund to any applicant.
   (B)   However, the city reserves the right to consider extensions made at
the applicant’s expense and without written agreement as to service lines.
   (C)   Upon such lines, the city will set a meter at the beginning of the
extension to measure all water used and title to the line beyond the meter will
be vested in the customer who shall be responsible for maintenance and
replacement, when necessary.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-56)
§ 51.084 MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   The city, at its own expense, shall maintain and, when necessary, replace
the city-owned mains used to supply water to its customers, and if adequate
service requires the reconstruction or replacement of such mains, the mains
shall be reconstructed or replaced by the city at its expense.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-57)
SETBACK ZONE REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.095 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by 65 ILCS 5/11-125-4 and 415 ILCS 5/
14.2 and 5/14.3; and in the interest of securing the public health, safety and
welfare; to preserve the quality and quantity of ground water resources in
order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for present and future
generations; and to preserve ground water resources currently in use and those
aquifers having a potential for future use as a public water supply, the
provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all properties located within the
minimum setback zone established under § 14.2 of the Environmental Protection
Act (“Act”) (415 ILCS 5/14.2) and this subchapter, and the maximum setback zone
established under § 14.3 of the Act (415 ILCS 5/14.3) and this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-612, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 51.096 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as stated in this subchapter, and unless a different meaning of a
word or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or terms in
this subchapter shall be the same as those used in the Act and the state’s
Ground Water Protection Act (415 ILCS 55/1). For the purpose of this
subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1).
   AGENCY. The state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   BOARD. The state’s Pollution Control Board.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.3 of the Act and this subchapter.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.2 of the Act and this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-612, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 51.097 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
51.098 or
51.099 of this chapter, no person shall place a new potential primary source,
new potential secondary source or new potential route within the minimum
setback zone.
   (B)   Except as provided otherwise in §
51.098 of this chapter, no person shall place a new potential primary source
within the maximum setback zone.
(Ord. 16-612, passed 7-14-2016) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.098 WAIVERS, EXCEPTIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS OF MINIMAL HAZARD.
   (A)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, being the Environmental
Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/14.2(c), the owner of a new potential primary source
(other than landfilling or land treating), new potential secondary source, or
new potential route is granted an exception by the Board, such owner shall be
deemed to have an exception to the same extent from §
51.097(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, being the Environmental
Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/14.2(c) the owner of a new potential primary source
(other than landfilling or land treating) is granted an exception by the Board,
such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent from §
51.097(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   If, pursuant to § 14.5 of the Act, being the Environmental Protection
Act, 415 ILCS 5/14.5 the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source, or new potential route is issued a certificate of minimal
hazard by the Agency, such owner shall not be subject to §
51.097(B) of this chapter to the same extent that such owner is not subject to
§ 14.2(d) of the Act, being the Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/14.2
(d).
(Ord. 16-612, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 51.099 EXCLUSION.
   Section
51.097(A) of this chapter shall not apply to new common sources of sanitary
pollution as specified pursuant to § 17 of the Act and the regulations adopted
thereunder by the Agency; however, no such common sources may be located within
the applicable minimum distance from a community water supply well specified by
such regulations.
(Ord. 16-612, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The Superintendent shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a
low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
      (2)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
      (3)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
      (4)   Neither the city, the Superintendent, or its agents or assigns,
shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination of
the water supply was with or without notice.
      (5)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
      (6)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
      (7)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-43)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.023 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $750 for each
violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-59)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
52.015   Deposit of wastes
   
52.016   Sewage in natural outlet
   
52.017   Private system, unlawful
   
52.018   Connection to system required
Private Sewage Disposal
   
52.030   Private sewage system
   
52.031   Health Department approval
   
52.032   Permit approval
   
52.033   Compliance with state requirements
   
52.034   Availability of public sewer
   
52.035   Operation of private system
   
52.036   Additional restrictions
   
52.037   Time constraints for public sewer
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.055   Disturbing system unlawful
   
52.056   Compliance with regulating authorities
   
52.057   Classes of permits
   
52.058   Cost borne by owner
   
52.059   Separate sewer; exception
   
52.060   Old building sewers
   
52.061   Construction methods
   
52.062   Plumbing Code requirements
   
52.063   Elevation
   
52.064   Prohibited connections
   
52.065   Connections to sewer mains
   
52.066   Capacity of sewer
   
52.067   Tap-in supervision and testing
   
52.068   Inspection
   
52.069   Public sewer connection
   
52.070   Protection of property
   
52.071   Bond required
   
52.072   Unlawful discharges
Extension of Collecting Sewers
   
52.085   Permit required; authorized personnel
   
52.086   Extension permits
   
52.087   Materials
   
52.088   Inspections of construction
   
52.089   Manholes required
Use of Public Wastewater Facilities
   
52.100   Discharge of storm water
   
52.101   Storm water
   
52.102   Regulations of wastes
   
52.103   Harmful effects of certain materials
   
52.104   Harmful wastes; approval
   
52.105   Grease and oil interceptors
   
52.106   Flow-equalizing facilities
   
52.107   Industrial wastes control manhole
   
52.108   Industrial waste testing
   
52.109   Measurements and test
   
52.110   Special arrangements
Inspections
   
52.125   Damage
   
52.126   Inspection and testing
   
52.127   Liability of city
   
52.128   Private property inspections
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of Sewage Works of the city or his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (or one and one-half meters) outside
the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. The charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. This includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the MANHOLE shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like) outstanding.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
other.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. These are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), as
amended (Pub. Law No. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1281 et seq. and
implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pre-treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. This shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The Superintendent or other person or persons duly authorized by
the city to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the sanitary sewer system.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. This shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs (i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs).
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user the publicly owned treatment
works which:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)    Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissible.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (MG/L). A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in 1,000 milliliter
of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million,
to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private cooperation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   PH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories’ Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   ppm. Parts per million, by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (or 1.27 centimeters) in
any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary sewer
or combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with city funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESERVE FUND CHARGE. A revolving fund for expansion and construction of the
sewer system.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, buildings, mobile
homes, apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Is used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storms and surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being 30 ILCS 405/
1 et seq.
   STATE GRANT. The state’s participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act and
for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than average concentration values as established by code.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories’ Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CLASS. The type of user either residential or commercial (non-
industrial) or industrial, as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
      (1)   The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities.
      (2)   The SERVICE CHARGE shall be computed as outlined in Ch. 50 of this
code of ordinances and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the
local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
      (1)   An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater,
industrial wastes, and sludge.
      (2)   Sometimes used as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER
TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. These are defined in the water pollution
regulations of the state.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-1)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 52.015 DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-4) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 SEWAGE IN NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-5) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 PRIVATE SYSTEM, UNLAWFUL.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-6) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
city is hereby required, at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90
days after date of official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer
is within 200 feet of the nearest property line and adequate to handle the
additional connection, where determined to be required.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-7)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.030 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.018 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-10)
§ 52.031 HEALTH DEPARTMENT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the appropriate
Health Department.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-11)
§ 52.032 PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The inspection shall be made within hours of the receipt of written
notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-12)
§ 52.033 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code, being 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq. and with the
state’s Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 40,000 square feet.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-13) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.034 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.032 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this code of ordinances and any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-14)
§ 52.035 OPERATION OF PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-15)
§ 52.036 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Local Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-16)
§ 52.037 TIME CONSTRAINTS FOR PUBLIC SEWER.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-17)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.055 DISTURBING SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-21) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.056 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATING AUTHORITIES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and more stringent state and local
standards.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-22) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.057 CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits as follows:
      (1)   Residential wastewater service; and
      (2)   Service to commercial or institutional establishments or industrial
wastewater service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make applications
on a special form furnished by the city. The fee per connection shall be $250.
   (C)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, shall
provide information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and
type of activity.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-23) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 52.058 COST BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses including labor and material incidental to the
installation, connection and maintenance of a lateral sewer line shall be borne
by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation, connection
and maintenance of the lateral sewer lines. This section shall apply even where
the lateral sewer line runs under a public street, public right-of-way or
public easement.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-24)
§ 52.059 SEPARATE SEWER; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except that, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, except for sewer connection charges
accruing from such buildings or properties.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-25)
§ 52.060 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-26)
§ 52.061 CONSTRUCTION METHODS.
   (A)   The size, slope, depth and alignment of the building sewer shall be
subject to the approval of the Superintendent. In no case shall the inside
diameter of the building sewer be less than four inches. If six-inch diameter
pipe is used, the slope shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot. If
four-inch or five-inch diameter pipe is used, the slope shall not be less one-
fourth inch per foot. The depth of the building sewer shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform
grade and in straight alignment, insofar as possible. Changes in direction
shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings, unless the break in
alignment is made at a manhole facilitating servicing. Installation shall be in
accordance with Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction
in Illinois.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be constructed of materials approved by the
city. Generally, all building sewers shall be constructed of the following
materials:
      (1)   Cast or ductile iron pipe;
      (2)   ABS solid wall plastic pipe (six-inch diameter maximum); and
      (3)   PVC solid wall plastic pipe (six-inch diameter maximum) SDR-35.
   (C)   All pipe joints must be gaslight and water-tight and are subject to
the approval of the city. Transition joints from one pipe material to another
shall be made using fittings manufactured for such transitions.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-27)
§ 52.062 PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-28)
§ 52.063 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §
52.056 of this chapter and discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-29) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.064 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-30) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.065 CONNECTIONS TO SEWER MAINS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Building sewer connections with any sewer shall be made only at
manholes or other such junctions as may be provided or designated by the city,
and then only in such manner as directed. The connection of the building sewer
shall be made at a wye branch, if such branch is available. The building
service sewer shall generally enter the sewer main or lateral by way of an
existing wye.
      (2)   In the event of absence of the wye, the connection to the sewer
main or lateral shall be made by one of the methods indicated below:
         (a)   Installation of a manhole;
         (b)   Circular saw-cut sewer main by proper tools (“sewer tap” machine
or similar), and proper installation of hub wye saddle, in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendation. This method shall not be allowed when the wye
branch is larger than four inches in diameter. The entire sewer main in the
location of the wye and the wye shall be encased in concrete; or
         (c)   Using the pipe cutter only, neatly and accurately cut out
desired length of pipe for insertion of proper fitting. Remove both hub and
bell ends, or other compression couplings from wye branch fitting to allow the
wye branch to be inserted with no more than a total of one-half-inch gap. Use
band seal couplings, or similar couplings, and shear rings and clamps to fasten
the inserted fitting and hold it firmly in place. The entire section shall then
be encased in concrete having a minimum thickness of four inches and extending
eight inches beyond each joint.
      (3)   If another method is desired, a detail shall be submitted for
review and approval by the city before the connection is made. Indiscriminate
breaking of the sewer main pipe is not allowed.
   (B)   On-site inspection. After the wye branch has been inserted and
jointed, and before any additional fittings have been placed in the service
line, the installation shall be approved by the Superintendent or his or her
authorized representative. After approval is granted, the contractor shall
encase the work area as specified herein.
   (C)   Backfill. To be placed in accordance with the Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, current edition. In
addition, any building sewers crossing any street, or traveled alley shall be
backfilled with granular backfill material.
   (D)   Concrete encasement. When a riser is constructed and its height is
four feet or more measured from the flowline of the sewer main to the top of
the riser pipe, the wye connection shall be encased in concrete to a height of
at least one foot six inches above the flowline of the sewer main. When the
height of the riser is less than four feet above the flowline of the sewer
main, the wye connection shall be backfilled to the top of the riser pipe with
carefully placed and compacted granular backfill.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-31)
§ 52.066 CAPACITY OF SEWER.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-32)
§ 52.067 TAP-IN SUPERVISION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer
is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection
shall be made under the supervision of the city or its representative.
   (B)   At any time after the installation of the building sewer, the city may
test the building sewer for violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-33)
§ 52.068 INSPECTION.
   After the building sewer has been constructed in the trench, but before the
sewer is backfilled, the applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Superintendent that the building sewer is ready for inspection. If the
sewer has been constructed properly, permission will be given to backfill the
trench. If the sewer construction is found to be unsuitable, the permit
applicant will correct the installation to meet city’s requirements.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-34)
§ 52.069 PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city before installation.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-35)
§ 52.070 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-36) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   If the applicant for the building sewer permit does not have a general
bond on file with the city, the applicant shall furnish a corporate surety bond
in an amount one and one-half times the cost of the contemplated work for which
the permit is to be issued.
   (B)   Any experienced sewer builder or drain layer may furnish to the city a
continuing surety bond in the sum of $5,000 to apply to all building sewer
permits issued to such builder or to the principals thereof for a term of one
year from the date thereof subject to renewal from year to year, and such
continuing bond may be accepted in behalf of the city in lieu of a special bond
to cover each permit issued during the term of the bond.
   (C)   (1)   Home owners wishing to install their own building services are
not required to post a bond.
      (2)   Any person performing building sewer work for hire shall post the
bond.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-37)
§ 52.072 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except those
ordinances in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and more stringent state and local
standards.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-38) Penalty, see §
52.999
EXTENSION OF COLLECTING SEWERS
§ 52.085 PERMIT REQUIRED; AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL.
   No person, other than an authorized employee of the city, shall make any
connection with, uncover, alter or disturb a city sewer, or open any manhole,
intercepting chamber, or any appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a
written permit to do so from the city, and no person shall make any connection
or opening into any sewer, the flow of which is directly or indirectly
discharged into any city sewer, without first obtaining a written permit to do
so from the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-42) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.086 EXTENSION PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance of sewer extension permits shall be initiated by an
application for construction permit. The application shall be made on the forms
provided by the IEPA, shall be fully completed by the applicable persons or
parties and shall be accompanied by a set of plans, specifications and any
other information as may be required by the city.
   (B)   Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and approval thereof must be obtained from the city and
IEPA.
   (C)   (1)   If the application is in proper form, and the sewer extension
indicated therein appears to be in accordance with this subchapter and all
state and federal requirements, the city shall issue the permit for
construction of the sewer.
      (2)   If otherwise, the application for permit shall be denied by the
city. There shall be no fee charged for sewer extension application or permits.
   (D)   If the application is denied by the city, it shall state the reason or
reasons therefor in writing, mailed or personally delivered to the applicant.
The applicant shall have the right to amend such application in conformity with
the reasons given for denial and resubmit it to the city for further
consideration.
   (E)   All permits issued under this subchapter shall have an expiration date
of two years after the date of issuance. Any sewers not constructed prior to
the date of expiration shall have a new application submitted and a new permit
issued prior to their construction.
   (F)   The applicant for the permit shall furnish a corporate surety bond in
an amount one and one-half times the cost of the contemplated work for which
the permit is to be issued.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-43)
§ 52.087 MATERIALS.
   All sewer extensions shall be constructed of the following materials:
   (A)   Sewer pipe with diameters eight inches and larger shall be one of the
following:
      (1)   ABS composite pipe conforming to ASTM D-2680 with solvent weld
joints or O-ring rubber gasket joints as referenced in ASTM D-2680; and
      (2)   PVC sewer pipe SDR-35 conforming to ASTM 03033 or D3034 with joints
conforming to ASTM D3212.
   (B)   Laterals and fittings from the sewer to the property lines shall be
six-inch diameter and:
      (1)   Of comparable material to the sewer main for VCP and PVC pipe; and
      (2)   For ABS pipe, use ABS solid wall pipe SDR-23.5 conforming to ASTM
D-2751.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-44)
§ 52.088 INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Construction of the sewers shall be inspected under competent
supervision supplied by a registered professional engineer and upon completion
of construction, accurate detailed plans as constructed (“record drawings”)
shall be certified and submitted by the professional engineer to the city
before any applications for building sewer permits are filed, all at the
expense of the owner. These plans shall show all elevations as installed as
well as accurate measurements showing the locations of service connections. The
engineer shall also submit a certified statement showing the source, place and
volume of foreign waters.
   (B)   All sewers shall be subjected to:
      (1)   A lamp test, which shall provide that from one manhole to another,
at least one-half of the pipe end area shall be visible;
      (2)   Infiltration or exfiltration test with acceptable allowance of 200
gallons per day per inch diameter per mile; and
      (3)   Under special circumstances, when approved by the city, air
pressure testing with allowance to be specified by the city.
   (C)   When any sewer line fails to pass the infiltration test, the
exfiltration test or an air pressure test, the sewer line shall be televised in
the presence of the city’s representatives to determine points of faulty
construction. The owner shall repair all defects; the method of repair shall be
subject to the approval of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-45)
§ 52.089 MANHOLES REQUIRED.
   Manholes shall be installed at all changes in grade and/or direction and at
distances not greater than 400 feet apart. All manhole covers shall be water-
tight and self-sealing, incorporating an O-ring gasket. All covers shall have
concealed pick holes. Where manhole covers may be subjected to frequent and
extreme submergence, additional water-tightness shall be ensured by using bolt
down covers.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-46)
USE OF PUBLIC WASTEWATER FACILITIES
§ 52.100 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-49) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.101 STORM WATER.
   (A)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-50) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.102 REGULATIONS OF WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solids or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect or
cause to be connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or devise
discharging polluting substances into any storm sewers constructed as part of
this improvement.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-51) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.103 HARMFUL EFFECTS OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F
(0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste odor-
producing substances, in such concentration exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hq
at any time, except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5; and
      (12)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-52)
§ 52.104 HARMFUL WASTES; APPROVAL.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.103 of this chapter and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403, 6-26-1978 and any amendments
thereto, and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates for discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
52.085 of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, articles and laws.
   (C)   The owner of the pretreatment or equalization facilities shall obtain
construction and operating permits from the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency prior to the issuance of final approval by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Where multiple process or discharges are present or contemplated at an
industry, the city shall have the authority to require the owner or person to
furnish and install more than one control manhole with appurtenances and/or
require that all wastewater be discharged through a single control manhole or
structure with appurtenances described herein.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-53)
§ 52.105 GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-54)
§ 52.106 FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-55) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.107 INDUSTRIAL WASTES CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safety located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-56) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.108 INDUSTRIAL WASTE TESTING.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this code and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-57)
§ 52.109 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this code shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories’ Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 38-5-58)
§ 52.110 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance
with the chapter hereof, by the industrial concern provided such payments are
in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-59)
INSPECTIONS
§ 52.125 DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-65) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.126 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-66) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.127 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.126 of this chapter, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property
damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain conditions as required in §
52.108 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-67)
§ 52.128 PRIVATE PROPERTY INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-68)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except §
52.125 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   The city may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of
any violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-71)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be fined
not less than $50 for each offense, nor more than $750 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each and every day during which a
violation continues or exists following the issuance of notice as provided in
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-72)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-73)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Truck requirement; cleanliness
   
53.03   Parked garbage trucks
   
53.04   Truck wastewaters
   
53.05   Windblown garbage unlawful
   
53.06   Garbage falling from truck
   
53.07   Accumulation of garbage unlawful
   
53.08   Location of yards for equipment
   
53.09   Industry, construction and the like
   
53.10   Revocation of permit
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food and wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   RUBBISH. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, wood furniture, bedding; non-combustible
trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt,
small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral
waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt,
catch-basin dirt, contents of litter receptacles; provided, however, that,
refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building operations, nor shall
it include solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing
operations such as food processing wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps
and shavings.
   YARD WASTE. Material such as tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves and
grass.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-1)
§ 53.02 TRUCK REQUIREMENT; CLEANLINESS.
   (A)   The firm that handles the collection of trash shall be of good
character and give evidence that the equipment used by him or her is adequate
for the purposes intended.
   (B)   The successful firm shall have a truck or trucks which shall be so
designed that garbage and rubbish that is collected will be covered at all
times, except in the loading of garbage or rubbish, so that offensive odors are
not permitted to permeate the air and cause a nuisance within the city.
   (C)   The trucks and all containers in which garbage is collected and
transported shall be cleaned daily and the collector shall not collect any
garbage on any day without having a clean truck and hand containers if
containers are used.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 PARKED GARBAGE TRUCKS.
   No truck carrying garbage or rubbish, or both, shall be parked or be
permitted to stand anywhere in the city, except as provided for in §
53.10 of this chapter any longer than is necessary to pick up containers;
however, providing that, the standing of such vehicle was made necessary by
mechanical trouble, traffic conditions, accident or obedience to the direction
of police officers or traffic signals, shall not be considered a violation of
this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 TRUCK WASTEWATERS.
   A garbage truck or other equipment shall not be washed on city streets or
public property and will not be washed where the wastewaters will cause any
offensive odors to adjoining property owners.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 WINDBLOWN GARBAGE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to place garbage or rubbish in such a manner as to
allow the same to be blown by the wind onto the property of other residents.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 GARBAGE FALLING FROM TRUCK.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the city; provided
that, this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse
or ashes in a container complying with the provisions of this chapter,
preparatory to having such material collected and disposed of in the manner
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE UNLAWFUL.
   The fact that garbage or rubbish remains on an occupant’s premises in the
city in violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the
occupant of such premises is responsible for the violations of the chapter
occurring.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 LOCATION OF YARDS FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A licensee shall designate the location of the yards on which his or
her equipment will be parked while not in use and the equipment shall not be
parked within the city limits unless the designated location shall not, in the
opinion of the code enforcement officer, create any nuisance for adjoining
property owners.
   (B)   The licensee shall have as additional equipment a truck for the
disposal of large or unusual items of rubbish which cannot be placed in the
designated containers and shall have available for such pickups such equipment
at least one day each week or on such additional days as may be necessary to
satisfy the needs of the public.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-8)
§ 53.09 INDUSTRY, CONSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent or regulate the hauling
of rubbish or refuse from industrial processes, from construction projects or
other matter not normally collected on a regular schedule and haulers of
rubbish not normally collected in regular collections shall be excused from the
requirements of obtaining a collector’s license as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-9)
§ 53.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If the licensee fails to perform any services according to his or her
application and rate schedule, the Mayor may revoke his or her permit.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-10)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Scene of fire
Signs and Signals
   
70.15   Signs and signals
   
70.16   Unauthorized signs
   
70.17   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.18   Advertising signs
Vehicle Equipment and Condition
   
70.30   State Vehicle Code adoption
   
70.31   Muffler
   
70.32   Exhaust braking devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 1, entitled “Title and Definitions”, as
passed, approved and amended by the state’s General Assembly is hereby adopted
by the city, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, special police and auxiliary police
assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-203
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-2)
SIGNS AND SIGNALS
§ 70.15 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state, except upon
direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction
of the governing body shall conform to the state’s Manual of Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-301
§ 70.16 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, nor shall any person or place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any street, any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the
movement of traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (B)   No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so placed, maintained,
allowed to remain or be displayed upon either public or private property in
such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement of traffic or
the effectiveness of any traffic-control device, sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the city any sign,
signal, marking or device other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by the
City Council or the state’s Department of Transportation, which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal in view of any street or highway, and it shall be
unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any lawful
traffic-control device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any flashing or rotating
beacon of light in view of any street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
§ 70.30 STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTION.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 12, entitled “Equipment of Vehicles”, as
passed, approved and amended by the state’s General Assembly is hereby adopted
by the city and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-605, 5/12-605.1 and 5/12-605.2
§ 70.31 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cut-out is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-602
§ 70.32 EXHAUST BRAKING DEVICES.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall operate, or cause to be used or operated,
within the city any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed air.
   (B)   Affirmative defense. It shall be an affirmative defense that the
person operating, or causing to be used or operated, such mechanical exhaust
devices in circumstances where it was reasonably necessary to avoid causing
injury or an accident.
   (C)   Signage required. The city shall provide notice of the prohibition
created by this section by posting clearly visible signs on all truck routes at
or near the entrances to the city, utilizing city signs off of state rights-of-
way or on state rights-of-way; provided that, the state’s Department of
Transportation first consents or permits the erection of said signs on state
rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-3) (Ord. 05-558, passed 7-12-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms and provisions of §§
70.30 through
70.32 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, and not more than $500,
for the first conviction, and not less than $50, and not more than $500, for
the second and each subsequent conviction of §§
70.30 through
70.32 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-3)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   State Vehicle Code adopted
   
71.02   Careless driving
   
71.03   Drag racing
   
71.04   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
   
71.05   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
71.06   Traffic lane usage
   
71.07   U-turns prohibited
   
71.08   Duty to report accident
   
71.09   Transporting liquor in vehicles
   
71.10   Excessive noise
   
71.11   Reckless, negligent or careless driving
Speed Restrictions
   
71.25   Special speed limitations on elevated structures
   
71.26   General restrictions
   
71.27   Special speed limit while passing schools
   
71.28   Failure to reduce speed
Stop and Through Streets
   
71.40   Through streets
   
71.41   One-way streets or alleys
   
71.42   Stop streets
   
71.43   Yield right-of-way streets
   
71.44   Posting signs
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 74
Statutory reference:
   Rules of the road, see 625 ILCS 11
   Title and definitions, see 625 ILCS 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption; omissions. The Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 11, entitled
“Rules of the Road”, as passed, approved and amended by the state’s General
Assembly is hereby adopted by the city and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the city, except for the following
changes, deletions and omissions: omit §§ 11-207, 11-208.1, 11-208.2, 11-209.1,
11-302, 11-303, 11-310(f), 11-313, 11-401 to and including 11-416, 11-500 to
and including 11-502, 11-602, 11-603, 11-604, 11-606(b), 11-608, 11-1419 and
11-1422.
   (B)   Changes and additions.
      (1)   Change § 11-904(a) to read: “Preferential right-of-way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by this
code.”
      (2)   Change § 11-1416(a) to read: “Any person who shall willfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other person in lawfully
driving and traveling upon or along any highway within this state or who shall
offer for barter or sale, merchandise on said highway so as to interfere with
the effective movement of traffic shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation of this code.”
(Prior Code, § 24-4-1)
§ 71.02 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the city in a careless manner
so as to interfere with the safe or lawful operation of any other vehicle or so
as to interfere with or to injure, damage or endanger persons or property
engaged in the lawful use of the street.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 DRAG RACING.
   No person shall participate within the city in drag racing, as such activity
is defined by 625 ILCS 5/11-504.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a police officer directing such driver or operator to bring
his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails to or refuses to obey such
direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or her lights or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer is guilty of a violation of
this chapter. The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice,
siren, red or blue light; provided, however, the officer giving such signal
shall be in police uniform and if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be
marked showing it to be an official police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   Traffic-control signals, signs or markers owned by the city shall be
possessed only by the city’s employees, police officers, contractors or their
employees engaged in highway construction, contract or work upon the roadways
or public ways approved by the city. No person shall possess a traffic-control
signal, sign or marker owned by the city, except as provided in this section
without the prior written authority of the city. It shall be a violation of
this traffic code for a person to possess such a traffic- control signal, sign
or marker without lawful authority.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 TRAFFIC LANE USAGE.
   Whenever any roadway within the city has been divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane
until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with
safety.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall make a U-turn on any street or at any
intersection of any streets in the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within the city shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the Police Department
and shall make a report of such action. Failure to report an accident within
the city within 24 hours shall result in arrests of the person or persons
involved.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-415
§ 71.09 TRANSPORTING LIQUOR IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor
within the passenger area of any motor vehicle in the city, except in the
original container and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-502
§ 71.10 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   Stopped vehicle. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor
vehicle is stopped, unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears
of the vehicle in neutral, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-5)
   (B)   Wheels. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle
is stopped, accelerate the engine with the gears of such vehicle in neutral
and, while so accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a
forward or reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably loud noise with
the drive wheels of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-6)
   (C)   Squealing tires. No operator of a motor vehicle shall cause the wheels
of such vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or
excessive noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-7)
   (D)   While driving. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when operating
the vehicle, accelerate the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle causing an
unreasonably loud noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-9)
   (E)   Sound amplification systems. No driver of any motor vehicle within the
state shall operate or permit operation of any sound amplification system which
can be heard outside the vehicle from 75 feet or more when the vehicle is being
operated upon a highway, unless such system is being operated to request
assistance or warn of a hazardous situation.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-10)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-505 and 5/12-611
§ 71.11 RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city in a careless,
reckless, negligent or wanton manner or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.25 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS ON ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated structure
constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure when such
structure is sign-posted. Upon the trial of any person charged with the
violation of this section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by
the city and the existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-608
§ 71.26 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The speed limits on the various streets shall be approved by the City
Council, but shall not exceed 20 mph in a school zone and not to exceed 25 mph
on a residential street; otherwise, 30 mph on an arterial street unless
otherwise posted.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-604
§ 71.27 SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph while
passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or
across which children pass going to and from school during school days when
school children are present. This section shall not be applicable unless
appropriate signs are posted upon streets and maintained by the city or state
wherein the school zone is located.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-605
§ 71.28 FAILURE TO REDUCE SPEED.
   A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets and alleys of the city at a speed
which is reasonable and proper, with regard to traffic conditions and the use
of the street or alley. The fact that the vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver of the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or when special
hazard exists with respect to pedestrian or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOP AND THROUGH STREETS
§ 71.40 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the city designated by ordinance as
“through streets” are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer. See Ch. 74, Schd. I, of this
code of ordinances for applicable through and stop streets.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.41 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated. See
Ch. 74, Schd. II, of this code of ordinances for the designated one-way streets
and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-208
§ 71.42 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance at one or more
entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with. See Ch. 74, Schd. I, of this code of
ordinances for designated stop intersections.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-302
§ 71.43 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, in obedience to such sign,
shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection. See Ch. 74, Schd. III, of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.44 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield right-
of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys and all stop intersections.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-304
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Time limit parking
   
72.02   Parking for sale, repair or peddling prohibited
   
72.03   Private property
   
72.04   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.05   Parking for the handicapped
   
72.06   Load limits
   
72.07   Towing cars away
   
72.08   Parking violations
   
72.09   Prima facie proof
   
72.10   Snow routes
   
72.11   Parking tickets; state statute
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING FOR SALE, REPAIR OR PEDDLING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary; or
   (C)   Peddling merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-3) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; and/or
         (l)   In any alley that is open and maintained.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers):
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); and/or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers):
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking; and/or
         (c)   In yellow zones.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   
Ch. 75, Schd. I and
II, of this code of ordinances shall list all applicable no-parking zones.
   (D)   No person shall park any vehicle, vehicles or trailer the length of
which exceeds 20 feet or any Second Division vehicle licensed for an “F”
classification or higher:
      (1)   Upon any street, alley or any public way within the city, except
for the purpose and time period reasonably necessary to load and unload the
same; and/or
      (2)   Upon public or private property within the city with the motor
running for a continuous period in excess of 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-4) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/3-815
§ 72.05 PARKING FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Designated parking. Certain parking spaces within the confines of the
city shall be designated for use by handicapped persons’ vehicles only and will
be posted with appropriate signs to that effect.
   (B)   Use of designated handicapped parking. The use of designated
handicapped parking locations, duly posted and signed shall, to that effect, be
open to any vehicle which bears the appropriate handicapped state registration
plate issued by the Secretary of State for the state, or a valid handicapped
parking permit issued by another governmental agency or which bears a
handicapped card furnished in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq.
furnished by the city.
   (C)   Application for state handicapped registration plate. The issuance of
a state handicapped motor vehicle registration plate shall be made with the
Secretary of State of the state at any facility provided and approved for that
purpose by the Secretary of State.
   (D)   Handicapped parking areas. Those places designated as “handicapped
parking spaces” are listed in
Ch. 75, Schd. III, of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2
§ 72.06 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a gross load limit on city
streets. The term GROSS LOAD LIMIT shall mean the total weight of a vehicle and
the load it is carrying.
   (B)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon any
street where the operation is prohibited by this section and where such signs
of prohibition are posted; except that, a vehicle may be driven on such street
for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose of making
deliveries or picking up loads.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not include pickup trucks, trucks
operated by the city maintenance and repairs on the street or the operation of
a vehicle owned by the U.S. Government or state while on lawful business of
these agencies.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-6) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
   (B)   Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any city property or in a
public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the city in removing and
storing such vehicle(s).
(Prior Code, § 24-6-7)
§ 72.08 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a
vehicle may be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or
her for such illegal parking by paying to the city $10 for each such offense
and $15 for the second offense within six months.
      (2)   Such payment may be made at the City Hall and a receipt shall be
issued for all money so received and such money shall be promptly turned over
to the Treasurer to be credited to the General Fund.
      (3)   The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to
refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at
least five days.
   (B)   Provided, this section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so
as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police and Fire
Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed or so as to
block an emergency entrance in a hospital; nor shall this section apply to any
person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any
street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial
street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to remove a
vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police Department.
      (1)   Removal time limit. Any vehicle illegally parked for a period in
excess of 24 hours may be removed by a towing service authorized by the Police
Department of the municipality. In any emergency, any vehicle may be removed by
any means when authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
      (2)   City parking lots. No person shall park a motor vehicle on a city
parking lot unattended for more than five consecutive days.
      (3)   Parking violation ticket. The parking violation ticket shall be as
set out by the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-8)
§ 72.09 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or operated is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-9)
§ 72.10 SNOW ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on designated streets at any time
within 18 hours after a snowfall of three inches or more, unless the street has
been cleared of snow.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARKING TICKETS; STATE STATUTE.
   (A)   The City Council intends to utilize 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5 and the
procedure set forth therein.
   (B)   The appropriate authorities are hereby authorized to utilize the
statute and the procedure set forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-11)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in violation of §
72.05 of this chapter in a posted designated handicapped space which does not
bear a state handicapped registration plate, or a valid handicapped parking
permit issued by another governmental agency of a city handicapped registration
card will be ticketed and the vehicle will be removed in accordance with
departmental policies and in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1302. The registered
owner of the vehicle as ascertained by the registration plates of the vehicle
will be presumed to be in control of the vehicle and will be fined $100. The
same registered owner will be held liable for the cost of removal of the
vehicle and must pay that cost, plus storage charges, if any, prior to the
release of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles, Skateboards, Skates and Scooters
   
73.01   Animals or bicycles
   
73.02   Bicycle lamps, reflectors and equipment
   
73.03   Definition
   
73.04   Operation with the flow of traffic
   
73.05   Operation during daylight hours
   
73.06   Rules of the road for bicycles
   
73.07   Operation on sidewalks and roadways
   
73.08   Number of riders
   
73.09   Insurance for motorized scooters
   
73.10   Parental responsibility
Golf Carts and Utility Terrain Vehicles
   
73.25   General
   
73.26   Definitions
   
73.27   Requirements
   
73.28   Rules concerning golf carts and utility terrain vehicles
   
73.29   Permits
   
73.30   Vehicle identification and requirements
   
73.31   Miscellaneous
Snowmobiles
   
73.45   Adoption by reference
   
73.46   Speed restrictions
   
73.47   Hours of operation
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, SKATES AND SCOOTERS
§ 73.01 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-7) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-206
§ 73.02 BICYCLE LAMPS, REFLECTORS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   When used at nighttime, every bicycle shall be equipped with the
following:
      (1)   A lamp upon the front which emits a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front;
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear which shall be visible to a distance of
600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights
on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A reflex reflector on each pedal visible from the front and rear of
the bicycle from a distance up to 200 feet when viewed within the lawful lower
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle; and
      (4)   Side reflectors upon each side of the bicycle which shall be
visible up to a distance of 500 feet when viewed directly in front of a lawful
lower beam of motor vehicle headlights.
   (B)   The requirements of this section may be met by reflective materials,
which shall be at least three-sixteenths of an inch wide on each side of each
tire or rim, which may indicate as clearly as possible the continuous circular
shape and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle and which reflective
materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear tire or rim.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-8) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 DEFINITION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall govern the use of bicycles, skateboards, in-line
skates (rollerblades and rollerskis), rollerskates, non-motorized scooters and
motorized scooters. All reference to “vehicles” throughout this subchapter
shall refer to the modes of transportation described herein.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORIZED SCOOTERS. Scooters which are not considered street legal and non-
roadworthy as defined by the state’s Secretary of State. (The Secretary of
State defines NON-ROADWORTHY SCOOTERS as those which are not built or
manufactured for general highway use. They cannot be titled or registered and
they cannot be operated on the state roadways.) The certificate of origin for
the scooter often states clearly that the vehicle was not built or manufactured
for general highway use and registration cannot be issued. Throughout this
subchapter, all reference to MOTORIZED SCOOTERS shall be to the scooters
defined in this section.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9)
§ 73.04 OPERATION WITH THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   All on-street operation of bicycles, skateboards, in-line skates,
rollerskates, non-motorized scooters and motorized scooters shall be conducted
as far to the right of the traffic lane as possible, in a single file line and
flowing with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OPERATION DURING DAYLIGHT HOURS.
   All operation of bicycles, skateboards, in-line skates, rollerskates and
scooters shall be during daylight hours. No vehicles shall be operated after
daylight unless the operator has a white light showing to the front and is
wearing some type of reflective clothing or reflective strips on his or her
clothing, which can be seen from a distance of 500 feet to the rear and side.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 RULES OF THE ROAD FOR BICYCLES.
   All vehicles must be operated in a manner consistent with the “Rules of the
Road” established for bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS AND ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Operation shall be allowed on all city streets and sidewalks, except
for those listed in
Ch. 75, Schd. IV, of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Vehicles shall not be operated on state highways within the city
pursuant to state law, which does not allow non-roadworthy vehicles to be
operated on the roadways of the state.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 NUMBER OF RIDERS.
   All vehicles must be operated with the manufacturer suggested number of
riders. There must be a seat for each rider. For example, individuals cannot
ride two riders on a motorized scooter with one seat, unless the seat was built
for two riders.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 INSURANCE FOR MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   (A)   All owners of motorized scooters must provide proof of liability
insurance on each scooter they own.
   (B)   Anyone who drives the scooter must be covered by liability insurance.
   (C)   The policy limits shall be based upon the minimum policy limits
required by the state for the operation of a licensed and registered motor
vehicle upon the state roadways.
   (D)   Proof of insurance must be presented upon annual registration of the
vehicle, by May 1 of each year.
   (E)   If the vehicle is put into operation after May 1, then the proof of
insurance must be submitted within seven days of the first use on city
property.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city will enforce parental responsibility laws of the state. Parents,
guardians and caretakers of children under the age of 17 may be ticketed and
fined pursuant to this section should minor children they are responsible for
be found to be operating a vehicle described in this section in violation of
this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9)
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.25 GENERAL.
   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles, as defined and qualified herein,
shall be allowed on city streets under the conditions as stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-1)
§ 73.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the city.
   GOLF CART. A self-propelled, electronically powered or self-propelled
gasoline powered four- wheeled motor vehicle, with bench or bucket seats, which
is capable of attaining in one mile a speed of more than 20 mph, but not more
than 25 mph, and is steered and maneuvered with a steering wheel.
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE. A self-propelled, electronically powered, four-
wheeled motor vehicle or a self-propelled gasoline powered four-wheeled vehicle
with bench or bucket seats, an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic
centimeters which is capable of attaining in one mile a speed of more than 20
mph, but not more than 25 mph, and is steered and maneuvered with a steering
wheel.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-2)
§ 73.27 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on the
city streets must comply with each of the following requirements:
   (A)   Liability insurance in the minimum amount of $15,000/50,000/25,000;
   (B)   Possess a permit from the city for the vehicle. To obtain such permit,
the operator must comply with licensing requirements by filling out an
application, paying an application fee and bringing the golf cart or utility
terrain vehicle to City Hall for inspection by the Chief of Police or his or
her designee;
   (C)   Must comply with the rules concerning golf cart and utility terrain
vehicles contained in §
73.28 of this chapter;
   (D)   Must display the city decal on the rear of the vehicle;
   (E)   Cannot transfer decals between vehicles;
   (F)   Must have a valid driver’s license; and
   (G)   Must be 16 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-3)
§ 73.28 RULES CONCERNING GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The following rules concern golf carts and utility terrain vehicles:
   (A)   Must obey all traffic laws of the state and the city;
   (B)   Must be operated only on streets of the city, except where prohibited;
   (C)   May not be operated on Highway 108 or Highway 67;
   (D)   May only be operated on streets and roadways that have a posted speed
limit of 35 mph or less;
   (E)   May only be operated between the legal sunrise and sunset;
   (F)   A person operating or in control of a golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle as described herein on a roadway while under the influence shall be
subject to 625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 5/11-502 (625 ILCS 5/11-500 et al.,
“Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol or Other Intoxicating Compounds”);
   (G)   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles shall not be operated on
sidewalks or in city parks other than in parking areas;
   (H)   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles may not be operated on
streets, highways and roads under the jurisdiction of the state’s Department of
Transportation (Highway 67 and Highway 108);
   (I)   All operators of golf carts and utility terrain vehicles must adhere
to child restraint laws pursuant to state statutes;
   (J)   Any operator or passenger of a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle,
while in motion, must be seated and wearing a seatbelt;
   (K)   A person is not eligible to obtain a license for a golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle unless they have a valid driver’s license issued by a
U.S. state;
   (L)   A person may not operate a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on a
highway, as enumerated in divisions (C) or (H) above. An operator may only
directly crossing the said highways at an intersection where there is a stop
sign across such highway;
   (M)   An insurance card showing minimum coverage required by this subchapter
shall be kept in the vehicle; and
   (N)   Each golf cart and utility terrain vehicle must be equipped with
brakes, tires, headlamps, front and rear turn signal lamps, tail lamps, stop
lamps, reflex reflectors, exterior mirrors, solid, one-piece windshield,
parking brake and seat belts.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-4)
§ 73.29 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle without first obtaining a permit from the city from the City Clerk as
provided herein. Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and renewed
annually. The cost of the permit is $35. Insurance coverage is to be verified
by the Police Department and in effect when obtaining or renewing a permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the city and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all future claims
resulting from the operation of their golf carts or utility terrain vehicles;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (6)   Photocopy of the operator’s current driver’s license; and
      (7)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is
in compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this subchapter
or there is evidence that permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart
or utility terrain vehicle on the designated roadways. Notice of suspension of
a permit shall be sent to the address stated on the application for a permit
and shall serve as valid notice of the suspension. Notice may also be
personally served by members of the city’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-5)
§ 73.30 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Any vehicle authorized for use on public streets by the passage of this
subchapter will be subject to all local and state laws and city ordinances that
generally apply to the respective motor vehicle codes and any violation of
either code will cause the operator of said vehicle to be eligible for criminal
prosecution and/or prosecution under this code.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this subchapter to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this subchapter shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable.
      (2)   The invalidity of any part of this subchapter shall not affect any
part or parts thereof.
   (B)   This subchapter became in full force and effect on 11-9-2010.
   (C)   Any article, or portion thereof, of the city, which is contrary to
this subchapter shall be deemed to be replaced.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-7)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.45 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of the state’s Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, 625
ILCS 40/1-1 et seq., are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-9-1) (Ord. 382, passed 1-8-1980)
§ 73.46 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   Unless some other speed restriction is established by the posting of speed
limit signs under the authority of the City Council, the maximum speed limit
for snowmobiles within the corporate limits of the city shall be 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 24-9-2)
§ 73.47 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be lawful to operate on all streets in said city from sunrise until
9:00 p.m., except the following:
   (A)   The streets comprising the block of the City Square being W.N. Main
Street on the north; W.S. Main Street on the south; Sixth Street on the west;
and Fifth Street or Route 267 on the east;
   (B)   All streets within one block of the Carrollton High School, Carrollton
Grade School, St. John’s Grade School and the Thomas H. Boyd Memorial Hospital
and Reisch Nursing Home; and
   (C)   All alleys in the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-9-3) (Ord. 382, passed 1-8-1980)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All individuals who violate §§
73.03 through
73.10 of this chapter shall be subject to issuance of a city ordinance
violation and corresponding fine, pursuant to rules already established in the
city code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-9)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
73.25 through
73.31 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor (with the
exception of driving under the influence of alcohol) and shall be punished by a
fine of $75. A second or subsequent offense shall result in revocation of the
permit for a period of not less than six months, nor more than three years, to
be determined by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   To the extent that any violation of §§
73.25 through
73.31 of this chapter also constitutes a violation on a criminal statute of the
state, then the violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 24-10-6)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   One-way streets and alleys
      
III.   Yield intersections
      
IV.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §§
71.40 and
71.42 of this code of ordinances, the following streets are hereby designated
as stop intersections, to-wit:
   (A)   One- and two-way stops.
Through Street Stop Street Direction
Through Street  Stop Street              Direction
Brook Lane      Lakeview Street          West
Cemetery Street Portland Street          Both
Cemetery Street Sixth Street             South
Cemetery Street Third Street             South
Church Street   First Street             Both
Church Street   Fourth Street            Both
Church Street   Third Street             Both
Dogwood Drive   Shorty Lane              West
Dogwood Drive   White Oak Drive          North
Eighth Street   Locust Street            Both
Eighth Street   S. Main Street           Both
Fourth Street   Locust Street            Both
Fourth Street   S. Main Street           Both
Fifth Street    All intersecting streets All
S. Lake Drive   White Oak Drive          East
S. Lake Drive   Woodland Drive           East
Locust Street   Seventh Street           Both
N. Main Street  Eighth Street            North
N. Main Street  First Street             Both
N. Main Street  Fourth Street            Both
N. Main Street  Ninth Street             North
N. Main Street  Second Street            South
N. Main Street  Seventh Street           Both
N. Main Street  Tenth Street             North
N. Main Street  Third Street             Both
S. Main Street  Second Street            North
S. Main Street  Seventh Street           Both
S. Main Street  Tenth Street             North
Maple Street    Eighth Street            South
Maple Street    Eleventh Street          South
Maple Street    Second Street            South
Maple Street    Seventh Street           Both
Maple Street    Sixth Street             Both
Maple Street    Tenth Street             South
Ninth Street    Cemetery Street          West
Ninth Street    Locust Street            Both
Ninth Street    S. Main Street           Both
Ninth Street    Maple Street             West
Ninth Street    Virginia Street          West
School Street   Eighth Street            Both
School Street   Seventh Street           Both
School Street   Sixth Street             Both
Second Street   Walnut Street            Both
Seventh Street  Walnut Street            Both
Sixth Street    Alfeld Drive             East
Sixth Street    Church Street            Both
Sixth Street    Locust Street            Both
Sixth Street    Maple Street             Both
Sixth Street    Sycamore Street          Both
Sixth Street    Walnut Street            East
Sycamore Street Seventh Street           Both
Tenth Street    Locust Street            Both
Third Street    Edgewood Street          West
Third Street    Highland Street          Both
Third Street    Maple Street             Both
Third Street    Pine Street              Both
Third Street    Virginia Street          East
Trailer Court   Maple Street             West
Virginia Street Eighth Street            South
Virginia Street Fourth Street            South
Virginia Street Portland Lane            North
Walnut Street   Fourth Street            Both
White Oak Drive Woodland Drive           West
 
   (B)   Two- and three-way stops.
 
Stop Street     Direction Stop Street    Direction
First Street    Both      S. Main Street East
Ninth Street    North     Maple Street   Both
Parkview Street           Sixth Street
Summit Street   North     Maple Street   Both
Theresa Street  South     Lakeview Drive West
 
   (C)   Four-way stops.
Church Street   Second Street
Church Street   Sixth Street
Locust Street   Third Street
N. Main Street  Fifth Street
N. Main Street  Sixth Street
S. Main Street  Third Street
S. Main Street  Fifth Street
S. Main Street  Sixth Street
Maple Street    Fourth Street
Pine Street     Fourth Street
Sycamore Street Third Street
Sycamore Street Fourth Street
 
(Prior Code Ch. 24, Schd. A)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.41 of this code of ordinances, the following streets and/or alleys are
hereby declared to be one-way as designated:
 
Street                 Location
All alleys (as posted) Public square
 
(Prior Code Ch. 24, Schd. B)
SCHEDULE III. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.43 of this code of ordinances, the following streets are hereby designated
as yield right-of-way intersections, to-wit:
Through Street Yield Street Direction
Through Street  Yield Street    Direction
Cemetery Street Brook Lane      North
First Street    Locust Street   East
First Street    Walnut Street   East
Fourth Street   Highland Street West
Second Street   Locust Street   Both
S. Main Street
Walnut Street   Fourth Street   North
 
(Prior Code Ch. 24, Schd. C)
SCHEDULE IV. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   Public square.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer period than
one hour on the east side of the state’s Public Square and on all streets
leading therefrom designated by sign as one-hour parking zones, between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Saturday, inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-1)
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer period than
two hours on the north, west and south side of the city’s Public Square and on
all streets leading therefrom designated by sign as two-hour parking zones,
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Saturday,
inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-2)
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle around the city’s Public
Square and on all streets leading therefrom designated by sign as one-hour or
two-hour parking zones after the hour of 5:30 p.m. on Monday through Saturday,
inclusive, and all day Sunday after a snowfall of three inches or more has
occurred, except in the area designated herein.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-3)
   (B)   Three-inch snowfall. When a snowfall of three inches or more occurs,
vehicles may be parked on the south side of the square only, next to the
Courthouse curb, to permit snow removal.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-4)
   (C)   Unlawful parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or
permit any vehicle registered in his or her name to be unlawfully parked as
defined in this subchapter. The fact that a vehicle which is legally parked is
registered in the name of the person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of said vehicle at the time of said parking.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-5)
   (D)   Towing cars. The city’s Police Department is hereby authorized to
remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by commercial towing
service, any vehicle illegally parked after 72 hours. Vehicles so towed away
for illegal parking shall be towed to a safe place and restored to the owner or
operator upon payment of the fine, towing fee and storage costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-7)
   (E)   Obstruction of police officer. It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly obstruct, impede, disrupt or otherwise interfere with the performance
by one known to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his or her
official capacity in investigating and enforcing the provisions of this
schedule, including the marking of vehicles. Violation of this schedule shall
constitute a Class C misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-8)
   (F)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation accused with violation of
this schedule may settle and compromise the claim against him, her or it for
such illegal parking by paying to the city at the City Hall the sum of $3
within 72 hours of the time such alleged offense was committed. If payment is
not made within 72 hours, a fine in the amount of $10 shall be assessed against
the violator. If payment is not made within 30 days from the time of violation,
a summons to appear shall issue and the offender shall be fined not to exceed
$50 and costs for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-6)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   Limited parking zones
      
III.   Handicapped parking
      
IV.   Bicycles, skateboards and skates
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
72.04(C) of this code of ordinances, the following streets are hereby
designated as no parking zones, to-wit:
 
Streets                         Side  Location
Alley between Fourth Street and East  From N. Main Street south 200 feet
Fifth Street
Eighth Street                   East  From School Street north to alley
Fourth Street                   West  From Highland Street north 200 feet
Ninth Street                    West  From Sycamore Street to School Street
School Street                   South From Ninth Street to Eighth Street
Sycamore Street                 South From Ninth Street to Eighth Street
 
(Prior Code Ch. 24, Schd. E)
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
72.04(C) of this code of ordinances, the following streets are hereby
designated as limited parking streets.
   (A)   Two-hour limit.
Street Side Location
Street         Side  Location
Eighth Street  East  From Sycamore Street south half block
Fifth Street   West  Between N. Main Street and S. Main Street
N. Main Street Both  From Fourth Street to Fifth Street
N. Main Street North From Fifth Street to Sixth Street
S. Main Street Both  From Fifth Street east half block
S. Main Street North From Sixth Street to Seventh Street
S. Main Street South From Sixth Street west half block
Sixth Street   East  From S. Main Street south quarter block
Sixth Street   West  From N. Main Street to S. Main Street
 
   (B)   One-hour limit.
 
Street         Side Location
Fifth Street   East From N. Main Street to S. Main Street
N. Main Street Both From Sixth Street west half block
Sixth Street   Both From N. Main Street north half block
 
   (C)   Twenty-minute limit.
 
Street         Side  Location
S. Main Street South From Seventh Street east half block
 
   (D)   No parking 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
 
Street        Side Location
Fourth Street Both From Sycamore Street to Highland Street
 
(Prior Code Ch. 24, Schd. G)
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
72.05(D) of this code of ordinances, the following streets and areas are hereby
designated as handicapped parking spaces:
 
Street/Lot     Side  Location As Posted
Church Street  North From Fifth Street west
Fourth Street  West  North of Highland Street intersection
Fifth Street   East  North of S. Main Street
N. Main Street North East of Sixth Street at intersection with alley
S. Main Street South East of Fifth Street on corner
Sixth Street   West  North of S. Main Street
 
(Prior Code Ch. 24, Schd. H)
SCHEDULE IV. BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §§
73.03 through
73.10 and
73.99(B) of this code of ordinances, the following streets and public property
do not permit individuals to operate any equipment specified in this section,
to-wit:
 
Street/Area                                                  Location
Public square and one block on all streets in all directions Court house area
 
(Prior Code Ch. 24, Schd. Z)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Short title
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Injury to property
   
90.004   Manner of keeping
   
90.005   Keeping barking dogs and crying cats
   
90.006   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.007   Exhibiting wild or vicious animals
   
90.008   Health hazard
   
90.009   Limitation on number of dogs and cats kept
   
90.010   Animals and the like in the city
Dogs
   
90.025   Definitions
   
90.026   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars
   
90.027   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
90.028   Duration of inoculation
   
90.029   Specifications for tag
   
90.030   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
90.031   Restraint of dogs
   
90.032   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
90.033   Dangerous dog; female dog at large
   
90.034   Female dog with other dogs
Dog Impoundment
   
90.045   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation
   
90.046   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
90.047   Obstructing pound master
   
90.048   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
90.049   Impoundment
   
90.050   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.051   City pound designated
Vicious and Dangerous Dogs
   
90.065   Definitions
   
90.066   Unlawful to maintain
   
90.067   Owner’s responsibility
   
90.068   Dog permitted to leave premises
   
90.069   Injunction
   
90.070   Liability of owner of dog attacking or injuring person
   
90.071   Right of entry; inspections
Cat Code
   
90.115   Definitions
   
90.116   Vaccination against rabies required; vaccination tag
   
90.117   Cats running at large while in heat
   
90.118   Wearing of collars; removal of license tag
   
90.119   Public nuisance
   
90.120   Cats injuring or destroying property of others
   
90.121   Minimum standards of sanitation
   
90.122   Enforcement
   
90.123   Poisoning or injuring cats
   
90.124   Duty to place cat under observation; when required; procedure
   
90.125   Holding impounded cats
   
90.126   Shelter fee; release from shelter
   
90.127   Warden’s duties
   
90.128   Warden’s records and reports
   
90.129   Impounding time limit
   
90.130   Receiving cats at shelter; registration
   
90.131   Interference with capture of cats
Special Use Permits
   
90.145   Short title
   
90.146   Application
   
90.147   Rules governing application for special use permit
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Animal Control Code”.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/1
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than humans, which may be affected by rabies.
(510 ILCS 5/2.02)
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council to perform duties enforcing this chapter or any animal control
official appointed and acting under authority of the County Board.
(510 ILCS 5/2.03)
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property
of its owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
(510 ILCS 5/2.05)
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places.
(510 ILCS 5/15)
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
(510 ILCS 5/2.06)
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11)
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
(510 ILCS 5/2.12)
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
(510 ILCS 5/2.13)
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
(510 ILCS 5/2.14)
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
(510 ILCS 5/2.15)
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a dog or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has a dog in his or her care, or who acts as its custodian, or
who knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him
or her.
(510 ILCS 5/2.16)
   POUND. Any facility approved by the Administrator and licensed as such by
the Department of Agriculture for the purpose of enforcing this chapter and
used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs or
other animals.
(510 ILCS 5/2.18)
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this chapter.
(510 ILCS 5/2.19)
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT, within the meaning of this chapter, if
it is controlled by a leash; at “heel” beside a responsible person; within a
vehicle being driven or parked on the streets; or within the property limits of
his or her owner or keeper.
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of June
through September.
   SHELTER. As it applies to dogs, a moisture-proof structure of suitable size
to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of durable
material with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground and with
the entrance covered by a flexible, wind-proof material. Such structure shall
be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to provide
insulation and protection against cold and dampness.
   UNOWNED STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the owner or keeper or
under control by leash or other recognized control methods, and which does not,
at that time and place, bear a current rabies inoculation tag issued pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter, by means of which, by reference to records
of current registration certificates, the Administrator or his or her deputies
or assistants may determine the name and address of the owner or keeper
thereof, or some other means of identification from which the Administrator or
his or her deputies or assistants may directly determine the name and address
of the owner or keeper thereof.
(510 ILCS 5/2)
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors said
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(510 ILCS 5/24)
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 90.003 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway or
private lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises
and break, bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub,
tree or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   Waste products accumulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit a dog or cat to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person unless such person has in his or her immediate
possession an appropriate device for scooping excrement and an appropriate
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person. This section shall not apply to a
person who is visually or physically handicapped.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards or runs. All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein
any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily cleaned and
kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 KEEPING BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or harbor any
dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which habitually cries
or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or
in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood
who are of ordinary sensibilities.
      (2)   Such dogs and cats are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions of complaint. Whenever any person shall complain to the
Police Department that a dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat
which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the city, the
Police Department shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint
has been received and that the person should take whatever steps are necessary
to alleviate the howling, yelping or crying.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture, abuse or cruelly beat, strike
or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or neglect, cause or inflict any
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal,
whether such animal belongs to such person or to another; except that,
reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing animals.
      (2)   Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the county animal
control facility for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any animal to
fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable water, shade
or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal in hot,
stormy, cold or inclement weather, or to carry any such animal in or upon any
vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      (2)   The terms used in this section shall comply with §
90.002 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6
§ 90.007 EXHIBITING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal as described in this chapter for
display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This
section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal
exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet, unless a permit is granted by the Department of Natural
Resources of the state.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the city. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may be
seized by any police officer or humane officer and upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
said animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, that, this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency, nor to
animals which are kept for the protection of property; provided that, such
animals are restrained by a leash or chain, cage, fence or other adequate means
from contact with the general public or with persons who enter the premises
with the actual or implied permission of the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 HEALTH HAZARD.
   The Mayor shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the keeping of
any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to be a nuisance or pose a health
hazard to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.009 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS KEPT.
   (A)   Nuisance.
      (1)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the city for
a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created.
      (2)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms “dog” and “cat” shall be construed
as provided in §
90.002 of this chapter.
   (B)   Limitation; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
three dogs and/or three cats within the city, with the exception that a litter
of pups, a litter of kittens or a portion of a litter may be kept for a period
of time not exceeding five months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or
boarding.
   (C)   Kennels. In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be
located closer than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent
residential lot.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 ANIMALS AND THE LIKE IN THE CITY.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall keep within the city any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine,
goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese, rabbits or other livestock.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply in areas of the city that are zoned
agricultural in nature, nor shall this section apply to livestock brought in to
the city for the purpose of being shipped out of the city.
      (2)   Landowners may apply for a special use permit so that they may keep
animals listed in divisions (A) above on their property pursuant to the terms
contained in §§
90.145 through
90.147 of this chapter.
   (C)   Powers of Police Chief. The Police Chief shall have the power to issue
an order prohibiting the keeping of any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to
pose a health hazard to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. 08-567A, passed 1-15-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 5/11-5-6 and 5/11-20-9
DOGS
§ 90.025 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall comply with §
90.002 of this chapter unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 90.026 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED AND TO HAVE NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   (1)   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies.
      (2)   Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered
tag evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by
the dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the dog
to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 90.027 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The inoculation of dogs required by §
90.026(A) of this chapter shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to
practice his or her profession in the state.
   (B)   Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to the
owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver to the
owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the collar
or harness of the dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact of the
inoculation against rabies.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 90.028 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
90.027 of this chapter shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar
year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of
time as may be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 90.029 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
90.027 of this chapter shall be in such form as shall be determined by the
Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 90.030 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the Police Department
or city employee, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his or
her certificate issued under the provisions of §
90.027 of this chapter, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned
or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 90.031 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control as defined in
§
90.002 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9
§ 90.032 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal,
plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-15)
§ 90.033 DANGEROUS DOG; FEMALE DOG AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous dog
or of any female dog, while in heat, to run at large within the limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-16) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.034 FEMALE DOG WITH OTHER DOGS.
   No person in control or possession of a female dog or permitting the same to
remain upon his or her premises, shall permit any such female dog, while in
heat, to consort with any other dog or dogs in an indecent manner in any place
of public view, whether upon his or her own or any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-17) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOG IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.045 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor to take up and
impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any
dog found running at large or unlicensed in the city, contrary to any of the
provisions of this chapter or other regulations of the city.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employee(s), such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employee(s), but the employee(s) may cite the owner of such
dog to answer charges of violation of this chapter. Any dog permitted to run at
large within the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within seven days shall
be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the pound keeper.
   (D)   The City Council may establish a reasonable fee by motion for each day
that a dog is housed in the pound.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/10
§ 90.046 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding and where the owner or keeper of such dog is disclosed
by any tax or license tag worn by it or is otherwise known to the officers
impounding the same, the designated official shall make reasonable attempts to
contact the owner, informing him or her of the impounding of his or her dog and
shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9)
§ 90.047 OBSTRUCTING POUND MASTER.
   Any person(s) who shall bring any dog into the city for the purpose of
causing the same to be impounded or any person who shall resist, hinder or
molest the pound master or dogcatcher or police officer while engaged upon the
duties imposed upon them by this chapter or any person who shall break into the
dog pound and release or deliver any dog therefrom without having first paid
the fees herein specified, or any owner or keeper of any dog who shall permit
any dog to run at large within the corporate limits of the city, upon
conviction of any part of this chapter shall be fined according to this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10)
§ 90.048 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded and kept
separated from other dogs for ten days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed in such a manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case such dog cannot
be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to preserve
the head intact which shall, thereupon, be immediately detached and be
delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   (1)   If, at the expiration of the ten days no symptoms of rabies have
developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this chapter; provided,
however, that, in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall have
previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed by the pound
keeper.
      (2)   After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
§ 90.049 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter may employ any
method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any dog found
running at large.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-12)
§ 90.050 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal impounded under this chapter may redeem the same by
paying all the costs and charges assessed, if any, that have accrued up to the
time of making redemption and on paying the same; it shall be the duty of the
authorities to release the animal from the pound and deliver it to its owner,
or certify the release thereof to any county authority having possession of the
animal.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-13)
§ 90.051 CITY POUND DESIGNATED.
   The City Council does hereby designate the county animal pound as the
depository of local animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-14)
VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
ENCLOSURE. Such ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the ENCLOSURE.
   FOUND TO BE VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   The County Veterinarian, Animal Control Warden or a law enforcement
officer has conducted an investigation and made a finding in writing that the
dog is a vicious dog, as defined herein, and, based on that finding, the County
Veterinarian or an Animal Control Warden has declared in writing that the dog
is a vicious dog; or
      (2)   The circuit court has found the dog to be a vicious dog, as defined
herein, and has entered an order based on that finding.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the public pound in the city or town
where the vicious dog is found.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   (a)   Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property;
         (b)   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals;
         (c)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks
upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or
with special equipment;
         (d)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic
animal without provocation; and
         (e)   Any individual dog which has been found to be a “dangerous dog”
upon three separate occasions.
      (2)   No dog shall be deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement
or guard duties. VICIOUS DOGS shall not be classified in a manner that is
specific as to breed.
      (3)   If a dog is found to be a VICIOUS DOG, the dog shall be subject to
enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 90.066 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided that, the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length, and
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the
dog.
   (B)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Animal Control Warden, or
the police and shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for destruction
by lethal injection.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
§ 90.067 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the
Circuit Court in the county in which the animal was impounded within seven
working days, the dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be a vicious
dog shall not be released to the owner until the Animal Control Warden approves
the enclosure, as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.068 DOG PERMITTED TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   (B)   (1)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for
the physically handicapped and sentry, guard or police-owned dogs are exempt
from this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the
dog is performing duties as expected.
      (2)   To qualify for exemption under this section, each such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with this code. It shall be
the duty of the owner of such exempted dog to notify the Warden of changes of
address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the Warden
advised of the location where such dog will be stationed.
      (3)   The Warden shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of such exempted dogs and shall promptly notify such
departments of any address changes reported to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.069 INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Warden, the City Attorney or any citizen of the
city in which a dangerous dog or other animal exists may file a complaint to
enjoin all persons from maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and
to enjoin the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting same to leave
his or her premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control
methods.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complaint in the circuit court, the court, if
satisfied that this nuisance may exist, shall grant a preliminary injunction
with bond in such amount as the court may determine enjoining the defendant
from maintaining such nuisance.
   (C)   If the existence of the nuisance is established, the owner of such dog
or other animal shall be in violation of this section and, in addition, the
court shall enter an order restraining the owner from maintaining such nuisance
and may order that such dog or other animal be humanely dispatched.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/17
§ 90.070 LIABILITY OF OWNER OF DOG ATTACKING OR INJURING PERSON.
   If a dog, or other animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any
person who is peaceably conducting himself or herself in any place where he or
she may lawfully be, the owner of such dog or other animal is liable in damages
to such person for the full amount of the injury sustained.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/16
§ 90.071 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter and
making inspections hereunder, the Animal Control Warden, or his or her
authorized representative, or any officer of the law may enter upon private
premises to apprehend a straying dog or other animal, a dangerous dog or other
animal or a dog or other animal thought to be infected with rabies.
   (B)   If, after request therefor, the owner of such dog or other animal
shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall
be in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 and 5/11-20-9, 510 ILCS 5/17 and
510 ILCS 5/24
CAT CODE
§ 90.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health of the county.
   CAT. Both male and female cats.
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH. The Department of Health of the county.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Health or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   HOBBY KENNEL or CATTERY. Any kennel where cats are kept for organized shows,
breeding for exhibition or for the enjoyment of the household.
   INOCULATION, VACCINATION or VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a cat
with a vaccine approved by the Department of Health for use in the prevention
of rabies.
   KEEP or HARBOR. The habitually permitting to remain or to be lodged or to be
fed within the house, store, yard, enclosure or other place.
   KENNEL. The house, store yard, enclosure or place where two or more weaned,
unspayed or unneutered cats are harbored or kept; provided, however, this
definition shall not apply to spayed female cats nor to the animal shelter or
to animal hospitals operated by veterinarians duly licensed under the laws of
the state keeping cats for others for treatment or boarding.
   OWN. Unless otherwise indicated in the text, shall be deemed to mean and
include own, keep, harbor or have charge, custody or control of a cat.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a cat.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of
the owner or a member of his or her immediate family.
   WARDEN. The person in charge of enforcing this subchapter and appointed by
the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1)
§ 90.116 VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES REQUIRED; VACCINATION TAG.
   Any person within the city owning a cat six months of age or older shall
have such cat vaccinated once each year against rabies. Each unvaccinated cat
acquired or moved into the municipality must be vaccinated within 30 days after
purchase or arrival; provided that, no cat under six months of age shall be
required to be vaccinated until it reaches the age of six months. It shall be
the duty of every veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating any cat, to provide
a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate to the Warden and to provide a
rabies vaccination tag to the owner. The rabies vaccination tag shall be
attached to and kept upon the collar or harness of the cat.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.117 CATS RUNNING AT LARGE WHILE IN HEAT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any owner, keeper or harborer of any
female cat to permit such cat to run at large while in heat, whether or not a
valid registration tag is attached.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.118 WEARING OF COLLARS; REMOVAL OF LICENSE TAG.
   Each licensed cat must wear a collar bearing the rabies vaccination tag.
This is the owner’s responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove, or cause to be removed, the collar, harness or rabies vaccination tag
from any licensed cat.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.119 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Any cat running at large in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter is declared to be a public nuisance, and shall be impounded by the
director as in this subchapter provided, or if the residence of the owner of
such cat is determined by the capturing animal control officer before such cat
is delivered to the animal shelter, such cat may be delivered to the owner upon
said owner’s written acceptance of delivery upon a form to be provided by the
director.
      (2)   If such cat is so delivered to the owner, an impoundment fee of $25
shall be paid by the owner to the city within five days of delivery and failure
to pay said fee shall constitute a separate violation of this section. The fee
will double with each violation for the same animal.
   (B)   The Warden shall not release any such cat from being impounded until
the owner of the cat shall have obtained a license as provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.120 CATS INJURING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, or allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by him or her or under his or her charge or control, any cat
that in any manner injures or destroys any real or personal property of any
description belonging to another. If, upon the trial of any offense mentioned
in this section, it shall appear to Municipal Judge that the person be guilty
as charged in said complaint, said Judge may, in addition to the usual judgment
of conviction, order the person so offending to make restitution to the party
injured in an amount equal to the value of the property so injured or
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.121 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF SANITATION.
   (A)   Animal housing facilities shall be constructed of non-toxic materials
and in a structurally sound design. The facility shall be kept in good repair
and kept clean and sanitary at all times, so as to protect animals from disease
and injury.
   (B)   Animals maintained in pens, cages or runs for periods exceeding 24
hours shall be provided with adequate space to prevent overcrowding and to
maintain normal exercise according to species. Cages are to be of material and
construction that permit cleaning and sanitizing.
   (C)   These facilities shall be sufficiently temperature controlled and
ventilated to provide for the animal’s comfort and health.
   (D)   Outside housing or enclosures shall allow adequate protection against
weather extremes. Floors of buildings, runs and wall shall be of an impervious
material to permit proper cleaning and disinfection. Outside runs must be
within a yard with an additional or separate fence around it, and screened from
view by either plantings or the additional fence.
   (E)   Provisions shall be made for the removal and proper disposal of animal
and food waste, bedding, dead animals and debris. Disposal facilities shall be
provided and so operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors and disease
hazards.
   (F)   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry and in a
sanitary condition.
   (G)   The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable and of
sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements
for the condition and size of the animal.
 
   (H)   All animals shall have fresh water available at all times. Water
vessels shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured in a manner that
prevents tipping and be of the removable type.
   (I)    Each cat shall be observed daily by the cat caretaker in charge or
his or her representative. Sick, diseased, injured, lame or blind animals shall
be provided with proper veterinary care.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-7) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.122 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter shall be under the
direction of the Animal Control Warden. For the purpose of enforcing this
subchapter, the Warden or any Animal Control Warden or police officer may
obtain a search warrant or other appropriate court order to permit entering
private premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-8)
§ 90.123 POISONING OR INJURING CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to administer, or cause to be
administered, poison of any sort whatsoever to any cat, or to neglect, or in
any manner to mistreat, injure, maim or destroy, except as elsewhere in the
subchapter specifically authorized, or in any manner to attempt to mistreat,
injure, maim or destroy a cat of another, or to place any poison, poisoned food
or poisoned bait where the same is accessible to any cat. This section shall
not be interpreted to prohibit an act of a licensed veterinarian in causing a
cat’s death in a humane manner with the approval of the owner of the cat.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-9) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.124 DUTY TO PLACE CAT UNDER OBSERVATION; WHEN REQUIRED; PROCEDURE.
   When any person owning a cat has been notified by any person injured or by
someone in his or her behalf, or by someone with knowledge of said injury, that
the person has been bitten or attacked by said cat, or when any person owning a
cat has been notified by any person that said cat has been bitten by a rabid
animal, the owner shall immediately place the cat under the care and
observation of the director or of a licensed veterinarian within the
municipality with the expense thereof to be borne by the owner of such cat; and
failure of the owner to submit said cat or other animal within 24 hours after
notice of said bite or attack to the director or a veterinarian within the city
constitutes a violation of this subchapter. The Warden or licensed veterinarian
shall impound said cat for care and observation for a period of ten days in
compliance with standards adopted by the corporate authorities. It shall be
lawful for the Warden or an agent of the Warden, to destroy in a humane manner
any cat that has been determined by the director to have rabies, or that has
been impounded for observation after the period of observation has expired
unless the owner shall, within five days after notice has been given, redeem
such cat by paying such expense incident to such impounding, observation or
treatment. It shall be illegal for any person to release any cat held for
observation to any person prior to expiration of the period of observation.
Before any such cat shall be released, the person to whom it is released shall
submit proof in the form of a certificate issued by a license veterinarian or
other person authorized by law to administer rabies inoculation that such cat
does not have rabies and has been properly inoculated for rabies. Such
impounded cat may be released temporarily directly by a license veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.125 HOLDING IMPOUNDED CATS.
   (A)   Any cat impounded because of not being properly licensed shall be held
by the Warden for not less than 72 hours, unless sooner redeemed or released as
hereinafter provided. The Warden shall notify the owner of any cat impounded if
such owner’s identity and address can be ascertained upon reasonable
investigation. Such notice shall be given within 24 hours after such cat is
impounded under any of the provisions of this subchapter. The notice shall
inform the owner that the cat has been impounded, the purpose or reason for
such impounding and the requirements to permit release of the cat.
   (B)   Any cat remaining in the shelter unclaimed or not redeemed at the
expiration of the time limit of 72 hours may be destroyed in a humane manner
unless, in the judgment of the Warden, a suitable home may be found for such
cat.
   (C)   In the event the Warden shall find a suitable home for such cat within
the municipality, the person taking such cat shall first procure from said
Warden a license and metallic tag for that particular cat as provided for
hereinbefore in this subchapter. The Warden is not required to charge for the
sale of the cat, except for a charge for license fee and, if such cat is six
months of age or older and has not had a vaccination for rabies as required by
this subchapter, the person receiving the cat must have the cat vaccinated for
rabies at that person’s expense.
   (D)   The humane society, or like institution with whom the Warden has
contracted to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, may sell and transfer
to a new owner any cat impounded in the animal shelter after the expiration of
the time limit as set by this section, if such new owner procures a license and
metallic tag for that particular cat under the provisions of this subchapter.
The proceeds of sale of any such cat shall be applied to any impoundment fees
owing on the cat by the city, and any excess proceeds may be retained by the
humane society. This division (D) shall not be interpreted to prohibit the
humane society from giving away any cat.
   (E)   Any impounded cat placed with a new owner shall be neutered or spayed
within 15 days after release from impoundment, except for cats under six months
of age. Payment for neutering must be made at the time of release and will be
forwarded to a licensed veterinarian who will present a statement signed by the
veterinarian and the owner stating that the surgery has been performed.
   (F)   The owner of any cat which is impounded and destroyed under this
subchapter shall be held responsible for payment of the impoundment fee set out
in this subchapter, plus the expense incident to the impoundment for
observation required by this subchapter, and shall pay such fee or expense to
the Warden within 15 days after destruction of such cat.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-11)
§ 90.126 SHELTER FEE; RELEASE FROM SHELTER.
   Any cat held or impounded in the animal shelter, because of the violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter by its owner, shall be released to the
owner thereof by the Warden upon proof of ownership of such cat and upon
presentation of the license and valid rabies certificate for the current year
showing that such cat has been properly licensed and inoculated for rabies, and
further upon the payment of a shelter fee of $25. All cats which shall have
remained in the shelter 72 hours without being claimed or released may be
destroyed in a humane manner, except as hereinbefore provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-12)
§ 90.127 WARDEN’S DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Warden or his or her assistants to do the
following acts:
      (1)   Establish and maintain, or supervise under contract, an animal
shelter at some convenient location, which shall be kept sanitary, properly
heated, ventilated and lighted;
      (2)   Properly house, feed, water and care for all cats confined in the
animal shelter;
      (3)   Enforce the licensing of all cats in the municipality as
hereinbefore provided;
      (4)   Issue citations in the municipal court against any person failing
to license any cat as hereinbefore provided; and
      (5)   Capture and secure all cats running at large contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter and remove such cats in a humane manner to the
animal shelter.
   (B)   Whenever there is any violation of any provision of this subchapter,
the Warden or any of his or her assistants finding such violation shall, except
as otherwise provided, take the name and address of such person violating such
provision and the description of the cat owned by him or her and issue a
summons or citation or otherwise notify him or her in writing to appear in
court at a time and place to be specified in such summons or notice. Such
hearing shall be at least five days after the notice, unless such person shall
demand an earlier hearing. It shall be unlawful for any person to disregard a
summons issued as provided herein or to fail to appear in court as provided by
such summons or citation. A warning ticket may be issued in lieu of such
summons or citation.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-13) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.128 WARDEN’S RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Warden shall keep accurate account of all cats received by him or her at
the shelter and released by him or her to the owner or purchaser, showing the
date and from whom received, the description of the cat, the name and address
of the person or persons releasing or purchasing. He or she shall keep a like
accurate account and description of all cats destroyed by him or her. On the
last day of each month, the shelter manager shall forward to the director an
accurate and complete account of all moneys received by him or her during the
month under the provisions of this subchapter, together with a statement of the
number of cats in the shelter at the first of the month, the number received,
the number destroyed, the number released or sold and the number on hand at the
end of the month.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-14)
§ 90.129 IMPOUNDING TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the Warden to destroy or cause or permit to be
destroyed any cat impounded until the expiration of impounding time limit of 72
hours, except that the Warden may, when, in his or her judgment, a cat so
impounded is suffering from any injury or disease and recovery is doubtful,
destroy such cat in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-15) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.130 RECEIVING CATS AT SHELTER; REGISTRATION.
   The Warden shall not receive a cat into the shelter from any person unless
such person shall give his or her full name and place of residence which shall
be registered in a proper book kept by the shelter manager. It shall be
unlawful for any person delivering to or receiving any cat from said shelter,
to give any false information concerning the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-16) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.131 INTERFERENCE WITH CAPTURE OF CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with or
obstruct the Warden while engaged in capturing, securing or taking to the
animal shelter any cat or cats subject to be impounded, or to break open or in
any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of
any animal shelter, or any ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of cats to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-17) Penalty, see §
90.999
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 90.145 SHORT TITLE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to provide rules and regulations for
applying for a special use permit to possess animals on residential property
within the city. This subchapter does not apply to the keeping of dogs or cats
on city property, as both of those animals are addressed in §§
90.025 through
90.034 and
90.115 through
90.131 of this chapter, respectively.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1)
§ 90.146 APPLICATION.
   Individuals who wish to possess on their property the agricultural type
animals listed in §
90.010 of this chapter must apply for a special use permit to keep such
animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)
§ 90.147 RULES GOVERNING APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following rules and regulations shall govern the application and
issuance of permits for the keeping of animals listed in §
90.010 of this chapter within the city.
   (A)   Permit. A person who owns land within the city must apply for a permit
to keep the animals listed in §
90.010 of this chapter on his or her property. The application shall be
obtained from the City Hall. The application must state the type and number of
animals which the landowner wishes to keep on the property. The specific type
of animal and number must be listed and the permit shall apply only to the
number and type of animal applied for. It shall not apply to other types of
animals or a larger number of animals than applied for. The permit shall be
valid for three years from the date of issue. It must be renewed by the
property owner every three years to remain intact.
   (B)   Permit is not transferable. Should the property owner sell his or her
property, the privilege to apply for the permit does not run with the land if
the property does not touch or border property which is zoned agricultural and
shall not be extended to the new owner. The right to keep animals listed in §
90.010 of this chapter within the city extinguishes once the owner of the then
owner of the property, at the time of passage of this subchapter, ceases to own
such property, if the property does not touch/border other land zoned
agricultural. If the property does touch property zones agricultural, the new
owner may apply for a permit to keep animals on the property, if the prior
owner had such a permit at the time of the transfer. Such application must be
made within 90 days of the transfer.
   (C)   Retroactivity. All property owners who keep the type of animals listed
in §
90.010 of this chapter on their property, or have kept such animals on their
property the last 90 days prior to passage of this subchapter shall have the
opportunity to file for a permit. Landowners who have not kept animals listed
in §
90.010 of this chapter on their property during the 90 days prior to passage of
this subchapter shall have no right to keep such animals listed in §
90.010 of this chapter in the city and may not apply for a permit.
   (D)   Application fee and place of filing. There is no fee for the
application for the permit. The completed application must be filed by the
landowner, with the Zoning Administrator at the City Hall within 90 days of
passage of this subchapter and then must be renewed by the landowner every
three years after the initial issuance.
   (E)   Care of animals. A permit may be suspended or revoked if the animals
or the property are not kept in safe and clean manner. Excessive waste being
kept on the property, unhealthy animals, unsecure animals or any other
condition which causes a threat to the public safety and health or the animals’
safety and health can lead to suspension of the permit until conditions are
corrected or revocation of the permit.
   (F)   Number of animals to be kept on property. The University of Illinois
Extension Service guidelines for the number of type of animal which may be kept
in a geographic area shall be used as a guideline for granting permits.
   (G)   Building of structures and fences. All shelters, structures and fences
built for the care and containment of animals must be built in compliance with
the zoning rules of the city.
   (H)   Issuance of permit. Upon receipt of application for a permit, the
Zoning Board shall conduct a hearing in accordance with §§
159.340 through
159.344 of this chapter. The same procedures as used in the process for
applying for a variance shall apply to this subchapter.
   (I)   Punishment for violation. Section
10.99 of this code of ordinances, as well as zoning enforcement rules, shall
apply to landowners who violate this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Ord. 08-567A, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-17) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
91.001   Specific nuisances enumerated
   
91.002   Nuisances detrimental to health, generally
   
91.003   Notice to abate
   
91.004   Hearing
   
91.005   Abatement by city
   
91.006   Summary abatement
   
91.007   Failure to comply with notice
   
91.008   Lien for cost of removal by city
Weeds
   
91.020   Definition
   
91.021   Height
   
91.022   Notice
   
91.023   Service of notice
   
91.024   Abatement
   
91.025   Lien
   
91.026   Payment
   
91.027   Foreclosure of lien
Garbage and Debris
   
91.040   Accumulation prohibited
   
91.041   Notice to person
   
91.042   Service of notice
   
91.043   Abatement
   
91.044   Lien
   
91.045   Payment
   
91.046   Foreclosure of lien
   
91.047   Violation
Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
91.060   Definition
   
91.061   Declaration of nuisance
   
91.062   Notice to owner
Assembling at Public Places and Businesses
   
91.075   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
91.076   Unlawful assembly
   
91.077   Drive-in business
   
91.078   Declared public places
   
91.079   Posting sign
NUISANCES
§ 91.001 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace
and comfort of the city for any person within the limits of the city to permit
the following, but the enumeration of the following nuisances shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Filth. To cause or allow the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth
or noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place to
the prejudice of others;
   (B)   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake,
pond, spring, well or common sewer, street or public highway;
   (C)   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of
others;
   (D)   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places and ways to burying
places;
   (E)   Manufacturing gunpowder. To carry on the business of manufacturing
gunpowder, nitroglycerine or other highly explosive substances, or mixing or
grinding the materials therefor in any building within 500 feet of any valuable
building erected at the time such business may be commenced;
   (F)   Powder magazines. To establish powder magazines near incorporated
towns at a point different from that appointed according to law by the
corporate authorities of the town, or within 1,000 feet of any occupied
dwelling house;
   (G)   Noxious odors. To erect, continue or use any building or other place
for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by occasioning
noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous
to the health of individuals or of the public;
   (H)   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on or affixing them to fences or other private property, or
on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner or, if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities;
   (I)   Wells unplugged. To permit any well drilled for oil, gas, salt water
disposal or any other purpose in connection with the production of oil and gas,
to remain unplugged after such well is no longer used for the purpose for which
it was drilled;
   (J)   Burn-out pits. To construct or operate any salt water pit or oil field
refuse pit, commonly called a “burn-out pit” so that salt water, brine or oil
field refuse or other waste liquids may escape therefrom in any manner, except
by the evaporation of such salt water or brine or by the burning of such oil
field waste or refuse;
   (K)   Discarded materials. To permit concrete bases, discarded machinery and
materials to remain around any oil or gas well or to fail to fill any holes,
cellars, slush pits and other excavations made in connection with any such well
or to restore the surface of the lands surrounding any such well to its
condition before the drilling of any such well, upon abandonment of any such
oil or gas well;
   (L)   Underground wells. To permit any salt water, oil, gas or other wastes
from any well drilled for oil, gas or exploratory purposes to escape to the
surface, or into a mine or coal seam, or into any underground fresh water
supply or from one underground stratum to another;
   (M)   Harassment. To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about
to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property, or
is about to buy or lease, or has bought or leased a residence or other real
property when the harassment, intimidation, or threat relates to a person’s
attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers to
a person’s sale, purchase or lease of a residence or other real property;
   (N)   Business. To establish, maintain and carry on any offensive or
unwholesome business or establishment within the limits of the city or within
one and one-half miles of the city limits;
   (O)   Filthy premises conditions. To keep or suffer to be kept any chicken
coop, cow barn, stable, cellar, vault, drain, privy, sewer or sink upon any
premises belonging to or occupied by any person, or any railroad car, building,
yard, grounds and premises belonging to or occupied by any person;
   (P)   Expectorate. To expectorate on any public sidewalk or street, or other
public building or floor or walk of any public vehicle or hall;
   (Q)   Litter on streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or
allow trash, paper, cardboard, wire, dirt, rock, stone, glass, brick, lumber,
wood or litter of material objects of any size or description to fall upon the
streets of the city from any moving vehicle, or to be thrown from a moving
vehicle, or to throw from a moving vehicle and to remain thereon;
   (R)   Accumulations of junk and trash. To deposit or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, ashes, garbage, refuse,
plastic, brush, litter, weeds, slush, lead, glass bottles or broken glass upon
any lot, piece or parcel of land or upon any public or private alley, street or
public way within the city;
   (S)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor or encourage the infestation of rodents;
   (T)   Bringing nuisances into the city. To bring into the city or keep
therein for sale or otherwise, either for food or for any other purpose, any
dead or live animal or any matter, substance or thing which shall be a nuisance
or which shall occasion a nuisance in the city, or which may or shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health;
   (U)   Offensive liquids. To keep nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or
substance or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive
or putrid, nor permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed, thrown or to
flow from or out of any premises into or upon any adjacent premises or any
public street or alley, nor permit the same to be done by any person connected
with the premises;
   (V)   Generally. To commit any offense which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the land or made such by statute of the state; and
   (W)   Dense or offensive smoke. To cause or permit the emission of dense
smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agency in the
city so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 740 ILCS 55/221 through 55/222
§ 91.002 NUISANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH GENERALLY.
   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises or part
thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained or operated in the city if such
use, keeping and/or maintenance of same shall be dangerous to health.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.003 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief or his or her designated representative
finds that a nuisance exists, he or she shall direct the City Clerk to mail
(certified) to the party responsible for the nuisance and to the party on whose
property the nuisance exists a written notice ordering that the nuisance be
abated within a reasonable time.
   (B)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of what condition or state of affairs must be achieved
in order for the nuisance to be deemed abated;
      (4)   A statement suggesting how such abatement might be accomplished;
      (5)   The date by which abatement must be completed;
      (6)   The date by which a request for a hearing must be filed and a
statement of the procedure for so filing;
      (7)   A statement that the responsible party has a right to appeal the
abatement order to the City Council; and
      (8)   A statement indicating that if the nuisance is not abated by the
date prescribed and/or if no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the municipality will abate the nuisance and assess the costs
against the property and/or impose a fine.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-3)
§ 91.004 HEARING.
   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with the Police
Chief or his or her designated representative ordering the abatement. A request
for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the City Clerk within
the time stated in the notice; otherwise, it will be presumed that a nuisance
exists, and that such nuisance must be abated as ordered. The hearing shall not
be a formal trial-type proceeding, but appropriate procedural safeguards shall
be observed to ensure fairness. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Police
Chief or his or her designated representative shall render his or her decision
and the reasons therefor in writing. If he or she finds that a nuisance exists,
he or she shall order it abated within an additional time, which must be
reasonable under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-4)
§ 91.005 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the person ordered to abate a nuisance fails to do so, or if the nuisance
poses an emergency, the Police Chief may perform the required action to abate.
The Police Chief, who is authorized to abate any nuisance, as defined in this
subchapter, shall have authority to engage the necessary assistance and to
incur the necessary expenses therefor. The official who abated a nuisance shall
keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred. The itemized expense shall
be filed with the City Clerk who shall pay such expenses on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2
§ 91.006 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the city possessing police powers,
the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent threat of
serious injury to persons or serious damage to person or real property, or if
the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only minor damage to the
items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the continuation of the
nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or property or a
substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life normally present in
the community, such officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance; provided,
further, that, whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession,
charge or control of the real or personal property which has become a nuisance
is unknown or cannot readily be found, the municipal officer with police power
may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the abatement of the
nuisance required continuing acts by the corporate authorities beyond the
initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency abatements, it
shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent basis through judicial
process as soon as reasonably possible.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-6)
§ 91.007 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to comply
with the requirements of such notice by abating such nuisance within the time
specified, such person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter. The
corporate authorities shall not be required to issue another notice where the
condition or violation is at first abated, but later resumed and/or repeated.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-7)
§ 91.008 LIEN FOR COST OF REMOVAL BY CITY.
   (A)   The reasonable cost of the abatement of any nuisance by the Police
Chief, or person designated by him or her, shall become a lien upon the real
estate affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax
liens; provided that, within 60 days after such cost and expense is incurred,
the city, or person performing the service by authority of the city, in his,
her or its own name, files notice of lien in the office of Record of Deeds of
the county. If the city has incurred cost or expense the Police Chief shall
notify the City Attorney to file a notice of lien on behalf of the city. The
notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
city.
   (B)   Upon payment of the cost of expense by the owner of or persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the city or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the
release may be filed of record as in the case of filing the notice of lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-8)
WEEDS
§ 91.020 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. This shall include, but not be limited to, the following, burdock,
ragweed (giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain,
common milk weed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed,
lambsquarter, wild lettuce, curled dock, smartweeds (all varieties), poison
hemlock, wild hemp and johnson grass and all other noxious weeds, as defined by
the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 91.021 HEIGHT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a
height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the city.
   (B)   Any such plants or weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.022 NOTICE.
   (A)   The Police Department or any other person so designated by the Mayor
or City Council may issue a written notice for removal of weeds or grass.
   (B)   Such weeds or grass shall be cut by the owner or occupant within five
days after such notice has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-3)
§ 91.023 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the
same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided
that, if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be
obtained, then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-4)
§ 91.024 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
city may proceed to abate and such nuisance shall be charged and paid by such
owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-5)
§ 91.025 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A
bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service
shall be presented to the owner.
   (B)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof incurred by the city shall be
recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-6)
§ 91.026 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien. All lien and release filing fees
shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-7)
§ 91.027 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the city after the
lien is in effect for 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6 and 5/11-20-7
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 91.040 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or
her premises or private property.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for
the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect to remove the garbage
or debris.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.041 NOTICE TO PERSON.
   (A)   The Mayor, Chief of Police or the Mayor’s designated representative
may issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris.
   (B)   Such garbage or debris shall be removed by the owner or occupant
within five days after such notice has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-2)
§ 91.042 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by handing of the same
to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his or
her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided
that, if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be
obtained, then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-3)
§ 91.043 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
city may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of
the abatement and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 91.044 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A bill
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service shall be
presented to the owner.
   (B)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the city shall be
recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-5)
§ 91.045 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-6)
§ 91.046 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold, non-
payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the
charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the city, after lien is in
effect for 60 days.
   (B)   Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two years after
the date of filing notice of lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-7)
§ 91.047 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Individuals or commercial property owners which violate the trash
ordinance shall now be subject to punishment under §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The fee schedule and service of violations shall be as dictated in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Section
10.99 of this code of ordinances is now incorporated into §§
91.001 through
91.008 of this chapter for trash accumulation contained in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-8) (Ord. 11-585, passed 8-30-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13 and 720 ILCS 5/47-10
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.060 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle which, for a period of at least
seven days or any greater period fixed by law, the engine, wheels or other
parts have been removed; or in which the engine, wheels or other parts have
been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of
being driven under its own motor power, or which has no valid registration.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has been
rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-1)
§ 91.061 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property in view
of the general public, are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-2)
§ 91.062 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The Police Department shall notify the owner of the motor vehicle, informing
him or her that he or she shall dispose of any inoperable vehicles under his or
her control. If the owner fails to dispose of said inoperable vehicle(s) after
seven days from the issuance of the notice, the Police Department may authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of the inoperable vehicle or
parts thereof.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-3)
ASSEMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES AND BUSINESS
§ 91.075 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 91.076 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be illegal for persons to assemble unlawfully in the following
situations:
   (A)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
   (B)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for the
purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to have
been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2 and 720 ILCS 5/25-1
§ 91.077 DRIVE-IN BUSINESS.
   A DRIVE-IN BUSINESS, within the meaning of this subchapter, shall be deemed
to be any business where meals, sandwiches, cold drinks, beverages, ice cream,
food, drink or consumer services are served directly to or are permitted to be
consumed by patrons in or upon automobiles, motorcycles or other vehicles
parked on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-4)
§ 91.078 DECLARED PUBLIC PLACES.
   For the purpose of preserving public peace, health and safety, the entire
premises occupied by a drive-in business, together with means of ingress or
egress, are hereby declared to be a public place.
   (A)   No person on the premises of a drive-in business shall race the motor
of any motor vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop, any motor
vehicle, blow any horn of any motor vehicle, or cause to be made any loud or
unseemly noise, nuisance or disturbance whereby the quiet and good order of the
premises or the neighborhood are disturbed.
   (B)   The following acts or conduct of any persons entering a drive-in
business or premises are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person found
guilty of any such acts shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter:
      (1)   Entering the premises of any drive-in business with any motor
vehicle of any description and parking such vehicle and leaving the premises
(thereby leaving such vehicle parked and unoccupied), without express consent
of the owner or operator of such business, in which event, such motor vehicle
shall be subject to a parking citation or may be impounded subject to the usual
impounding charges;
      (2)   Entering the premises in or upon a motor vehicle and using said
premises for cruising, racing as a shortcut to another street or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully on said
premises;
      (3)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and linger
or loiter at any location on the premises of any drive-in business, other than
in the building or in a legally parked motor vehicle; and
      (4)   For any person who, while on the premises of any drive-in business,
in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or abuse such person or use any
violently abusive language under circumstances reasonably calculated to provoke
a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-4)
§ 91.079 POSTING SIGN.
   It shall be the responsibility of the business operator to post on the
premises, in a conspicuous location, one or more signs bearing the following
legend in letters at least two inches or more in height and readable: “CRUISING
IN OR CONGREGATING AND LOITERING OUTSIDE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS UNLAWFUL. NO
UNOCCUPIED MOTOR VEHICLES MAY BE LEFT ON THE PREMISES WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF
THE OWNER.”
(Prior Code, § 27-4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreation Board
   
92.001   Supervision
   
92.002   Members
   
92.003   Vacancy
   
92.004   Powers
   
92.005   Officers, duties, elections
   
92.006   Fiscal affairs
   
92.007   Tax appropriation
   
92.008   Meetings and procedure
   
92.009   Supervision; enforcement of regulations
   
92.010   Management of Parks and Recreation Board
   
92.011   Management of Pool Board
Park Regulations
   
92.025   Rules governing park area
   
92.026   Destruction of park property
   
92.027   Littering; water pollution
   
92.028   Fires in parks
   
92.029   Picnics
   
92.030   Erection of structures
   
92.031   Signs
   
92.032   Animals
   
92.033   Vehicles prohibited
   
92.034   Sales; amusements for gain
Group Activities
   
92.045   Permit required
   
92.046   Application for permit
   
92.047   Decision on permit application
   
92.048   Issuance or denial of permit
Municipal Pool Policies
   
92.060   Admission
   
92.061   Refunds
   
92.062   Basket room and dressing area
   
92.063   Rules for pool area
   
92.064   Wading pool rules
   
92.065   General staff policies
   
92.066   General pool rules
   
92.067   Diving area rules
   
92.068   Accident procedures
   
92.069   Discipline problems
   
92.070   Opening procedures; lessons
   
92.071   Opening procedures; public swimming
   
92.072   Closing procedures
   
92.073   Lifeguards’ duties and responsibilities
   
92.074   Basket room personnel duties and responsibilities
   
92.075   Employee regulations
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 92.001 SUPERVISION.
    The control, supervision and management of the city’s community parks shall
be vested under the jurisdiction of the Park Board for control of the community
parks and the Swimming Pool Board for control of the community swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-1) (Ord. 12-587, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 92.002 MEMBERS.
    The Pool Board shall consist of seven members which shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council. The members shall
serve for five years without compensation. The Park Board shall consist of
seven members which shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council. The members shall serve for five years without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-2) (Ord. 12-587, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 92.003 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member, the Mayor shall appoint a
successor to serve the unexpired term with the advice and consent of the City
Council. Vacancies shall be declared in the office of a Trustee by the Board
when the trustee declines or is unable to serve, or is absent without cause
from three regular Board meetings within a period of one year, or is convicted
of a misdemeanor for failing, neglecting or refusing to discharge any duty
imposed upon a Trustee or becomes a non-resident of the city who fails to pay
the non-resident fee levied by the corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-3)
§ 92.004 POWERS.
   The Parks and Recreation Board and the Pool Board shall exercise all powers
and responsibilities, not reserved to the City Council, as set forth in 65
ILCS. The object in exercising the powers and responsibilities of the above
statute shall be achieved so far as possible by providing a staff of employees
trained in public recreation and leisure-time activities for children, young
people, men and women in all walks of life; conducting a program, making use of
physical properties available in the community and surrounding territory,
including the community park and the facilities contained therein. The Board is
further empowered to solicit and encourage the gifts of money and property for
the benefit of the Community Recreation Program, but, if the acceptance thereof
for such purposes shall subject the city to expense for improvement,
maintenance or renewal, the acceptance of any grant or devise of real estate
shall be subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-4) (Ord. 10-576, passed 9-14-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-95-3
§ 92.005 OFFICERS, DUTIES, ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The officers of each board shall consist of a President, Vice-
President and Secretary. The City Treasurer by virtue of his or her office,
shall be the Treasurer of the Boards. The Treasurer need not be a member of the
boards. The elective officers of the boards shall be elected annually at the
stated meeting of the boards in the month of May and shall serve until their
successors are elected. Vacancies in the elective offices of the boards may be
filled for the unexpired term at a stated or special meeting of the boards. The
boards shall adopt such rules, by-laws and regulations as it may deem proper
for the conduct of its work.
   (B)   The duties of the officers shall be as follows.
      (1)   President. The President shall preside at meetings and do and
perform such things and have such authority as may be granted unto him or her
by a majority of the boards, relating to the operation of said parks, swimming
pool and Summer Youth Program.
      (2)   Vice-President. The Vice-President shall assume the duties of the
President in his or her absence and have the same powers and authority as the
President at such times. At other times, he or she shall be a member of the
boards and shall have a vote on all matters and things coming before the
boards.
      (3)   Secretary. The Secretary shall notify all members of the boards of
all meetings, attend and keep a faithful record of all its acts and doings. He
or she shall have a vote as a member of the boards on all matters and things
coming before the boards.
      (4)   Treasurer.
         (a)   The City Treasurer shall have custody of the funds belonging to
the city under the administration of the boards. Such funds shall be the
proceeds of the playground and recreation tax and those funds arising out of
the revenue charged for the use of the swimming pool. He or she shall pay all
claims with the approval of the boards. He or she shall keep necessary books
showing receipts and disbursements coming into his or her hands and expended by
him or her and shall render a monthly statement of account to the boards, and
shall furnish a duplicate statement of said account to the City Council. He or
she shall make available to the City Auditor the required ledger kept by him or
her for the annual audit. The Auditor employed by the city shall, at all times,
audit this account and include a statement of account with the annual audit of
the city.
         (b)   Each member, other than the City Treasurer shall have a vote as
a member of the boards on all matters and things coming before the boards.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 92.006 FISCAL AFFAIRS.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the boards shall conform to the fiscal year of the
city. The boards shall, prior to the adoption of the annual appropriation
ordinance by the City Council, each year request the Council to levy and
collect a playground and recreation tax as required by law.
   (B)   At the meeting in the month of March each year, the Board President
shall make an annual report in writing which report shall contain a financial
statement which shall show the receipts from taxes and from other sources, an
inventory of the properties of the boards and a budget for the outline of
activities proposed for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-6) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 92.007 TAX APPROPRIATION.
   The appropriation and levy shall be divided into two separate accounts, one
for the Parks and Recreation Board and one for the Pool Board. The tax
appropriation for parks and recreation shall be divided equally between the two
boards.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-7) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 92.008 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the boards shall be held at least once each month
at a time and place of the boards, the President shall call a special meeting;
notice of such special meeting and the purpose thereof shall be given all
members of the boards at least 24 hours in advance and the business transacted
at such meetings shall be limited to that contained in such notice, except when
all members attend such special meeting, any business may be transacted. A
quorum shall consist of the majority of the boards.
   (B)   The order of business at said meeting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of minutes;
      (3)   Report of the Secretary;
      (4)   Report of the Clerk;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-8)
§ 92.009 SUPERVISION; ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police, Board members or any other officer or employee of the
city designated shall supervise the maintenance and use of the park and enforce
the rules and regulations relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-9)
§ 92.010 MANAGEMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall be required to adopt reasonable rules
and regulations governing the management of the parks and youth league.
   (A)    It shall hire any personnel deemed necessary for the operation of the
parks.
   (B)   It shall determine compensation for their services, in compliance with
state and federal wage and labor laws.
   (C)   It shall determine fees to be charged for use of the parks or for
youth league activities.
 
   (D)   It shall consult with the City Council before approving abnormal
expenditures, making unusual repairs or for any other operations that are other
than routine and normal.
   (E)   (1)   Either the Parks and Recreation Board, or its staff hired to
handle such affairs shall be responsible for the minor repair of buildings and
the appearance of the park area as well as preparation of the ball diamonds.
      (2)   The Board or its designated employee(s) must comply with all
requirements of the state concerning public bathrooms.
      (3)    The Board or its designee(s) shall enforce all rules and
regulations made by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-10)
§ 92.011 MANAGEMENT OF POOL BOARD.
   The Pool Board shall be required to adopt reasonable rules and regulations
governing the management of the municipal pool.
   (A)   It shall hire any personnel deemed necessary for the operation of the
municipal pool.
   (B)   It shall determine compensation for their services, in compliance with
state and federal wage and labor laws.
   (C)   It shall determine fees to be charged for use of the municipal pool as
well as programs to be offered at the municipal pool.
   (D)   It shall consult with the City Council before approving abnormal
expenditures, making unusual repairs or for any other operations that are other
than routine and normal.
   (E)   (1)   Either the Pool Board, or its staff hired to handle such
affairs, shall be responsible for the minor repair of building and the
appearance of the pool area as well as application of all necessary chemicals
and disinfection procedures.
      (2)    The Board or its designated employee(s) must comply with all
requirements of the state concerning bathrooms and public pools.
      (3)   The Board or its designee(s) shall enforce all rules and
regulations made by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-11)
PARK REGULATIONS
§ 92.025 RULES GOVERNING PARK AREA.
   The following rules are hereby adopted for the government of the community
park.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any fireworks or firearms in the parks of
the city without the permission of the Board.
   (B)   No person shall write upon or mark or deface in any manner, or use in
any improper way, any water closet, seat, fence or any property or thing
pertaining to or in any park of the city.
   (C)   No person shall drive or ride upon the grass or footways or elsewhere
than upon the roads and parking areas for the use of vehicles. All entrances
and exits shall be made at the main gate.
   (D)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle faster than five mph in any of
the parks.
   (E)   No person shall be intoxicated in the park.
   (F)   No person shall commit a nuisance or offense against decency.
   (G)   No person shall bring or consume any liquor on any ball field.
   (H)   No person shall chase, kill, set snare for, catch or attempt to catch
any rabbits, squirrels, birds or any animal or being belonging to the park.
   (I)   No person shall paste, affix or inscribe any hand bill or poster on
any structure or property in or on any such park, place or square or highway
surrounding the same.
   (J)   No person shall curse, swear or use obscene language or fight or
behave in a riotous or disorderly manner.
   (K)   No person shall sell any article whatever in any of said parks, except
when authorized by the Board.
   (L)   No person shall foul in any manner any spring or drinking fountain or
branch thereof.
   (M)   Carriages, automobiles, equestrians and bicycles when meeting shall
keep to the right as the law of the road requires.
   (N)   No person shall bring any dog into any of said parks, except when
fastened or led by a cord, string or chain sufficient to properly restrain the
same.
   (O)   No person or persons shall deliver any oration, address, speech,
sermon or lecture in any of said parks without permission from the Board.
   (P)   No person shall disturb any picnic or intrude himself or herself upon
it without the consent of those composing it.
   (Q)   All racing with horses, automobiles or vehicles is prohibited.
   (R)   No person shall parade, exhibit or distribute any advertisement,
circular or handbill, nor any peddler or petty dealer sell or in any manner
dispose of any article in any public park in said city, except by permission
from the Board.
   (S)   All heavy traffic, farm vehicles, delivery trucks of all kinds are
prohibited from the roads, walks and driveways of all parks and prohibited from
the use thereof, save and except in case of necessity.
   (T)   No person shall throw, scatter or leave any paper, trash, garbage or
any rubbish or materials whatsoever in the park area or pool, but all such
matter shall be deposited at once in receptacles provided for that purpose.
   (U)   There shall be a general curfew of 11:00 p.m., seven days a week as to
use of any and all of the park facilities, including all roads surrounding and
existing within the boundaries of the city park. Individuals and groups may
extend activities past said curfew by prior written permission from the Parks
and Recreation Board.
   (V)    It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, willfully or
recklessly kick, hit, throw or otherwise cause to be projected into the
swimming pool; area any ball, rock or other object from locations inside or
outside of Fry Park.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.026 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   Within the municipal parks, no person, except park personnel on official
business, shall:
   (A)   Cut, break, injure, destroy, take or remove any tree, shrub, timber,
plant or natural object;
   (B)   Kill, cause to be killed or pursue with intent to kill any bird or
animal, except in areas where the city has authorized hunting; and
   (C)   Willfully mutilate, injure or destroy any building, bridge, table,
bench, fireplace, guidepost, notice, tablet, fence, monument or other park
property or appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.027 LITTERING; WATER POLLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall deposit any trash within the municipal parks,
except in proper receptacles, where these are provided.
      (2)   Where receptacles are not provided, all trash shall be carried away
from the parks by the person responsible for its presence and shall be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in
the waters of any fountain, lake, stream or other body of water in or adjacent
to any park or in any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such
waters any substance or thing, liquid or solid which will or may result in the
pollution of the waters.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.028 FIRES IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall light or use any unenclosed picnic fire within the
municipal parks. Fires may be built only in fireplaces or on grills constructed
for that purpose in designated areas.
   (B)    Every person who has lighted or used any fire in a municipal park
shall extinguish such fire before leaving the park.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.029 PICNICS.
   (A)   No person shall picnic in the municipal parks, except in areas
designated for that purpose.
   (B)   Park personnel are hereby authorized to regulate the activities in
such areas when necessary to prevent congestion or to secure the maximum use,
comfort and convenience of all.
   (C)   Visitors shall comply with any directions given to achieve this end.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.030 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall build or place any tent, building, booth, stand or other
structure in or upon any municipal park or other recreational facility unless
he or she has obtained a permit to do so from the city.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.031 SIGNS.
   No person shall place within any municipal park or affix to any object
therein any sign or device designated to advertise any business, profession,
exhibition, event or thing unless he or she has obtained a permit to do so from
the city.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.032 ANIMALS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bring any dangerous animal into any municipal park;
   (B)   Permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash; or
   (C)   Ride or lead any horse in any municipal park or recreational area,
except upon paths or other ways expressly provided and posted for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.033 VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person other than municipal personnel on official business shall drive or
park any motor vehicle, including snowmobiles, in any municipal park, except on
a roadway or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.034 SALES; AMUSEMENTS FOR GAIN.
   Within the parks of the municipality, no person shall, without having first
obtained a permit from the city:
   (A)   Sell or offer for sale any goods or services; or
   (B)   Conduct any amusement for gain or for which a charge is made.
(Prior Code, § 28-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
GROUP ACTIVITIES
§ 92.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Whenever any group or organization desires to use municipal park facilities
for a particular purpose such as picnics, parties, exhibitions or performances,
a representative of the group shall first apply for and obtain a permit for
such activity from the Parks and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 28-3-1)
§ 92.046 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for all permits required by this subchapter shall be made
in writing to the Mayor not less than seven days before the proposed date of
the activity for which the permit is sought.
   (B)   Each application shall include the following information:
      (1)   A statement briefly describing the nature of the proposed activity;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of the person or organization
wishing to conduct such activity;
      (3)   The date when such activity is to be conducted;
      (4)   The hour when such activity will start and terminate;
      (5)   The park or portion thereof for which such permit is desired; and
      (6)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance.
(Prior Code, § 28-3-2)
§ 92.047 DECISION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   After due consideration of the information contained in the permit
application, but not later than seven days after the application has been
filed, the Mayor shall determine whether the application is satisfactory.
   (B)   An application shall be deemed satisfactory if:
      (1)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
      (2)   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the
day and hour requested in the application;
      (3)   The conduct of such activity will not substantially interrupt the
safe and orderly movement of traffic;
      (4)   The proper policing of such activity will not require the diversion
of so great a number of police officers as to prevent normal protection to the
remainder of the municipality;
      (5)    The conduct of such activity is not reasonably likely to cause
injury to persons or property or to incite violence, crime or disorderly
conduct;
      (6)   Such activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit; and
      (7)   The proposed activity will not create hazards that would subject
the city to liability not covered by its insurance policies or an indemnity
bond furnished by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 28-3-3)
§ 92.048 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Notification by regular mail or by telephone shall be made promptly by
the Mayor to every permit applicant of the decision on his or her application.
   (B)   If such decision is favorable, the Mayor shall issue the permit. As a
condition of the issuance of any permit, the Mayor may require that an
indemnity bond be obtained if, in his or her opinion, such bond is necessary to
protect the municipality from liability or to protect municipal property from
damage.
   (C)   The Mayor shall inform each applicant who has been denied a permit
regarding the reasons for the denial and the procedure for appeals.
(Prior Code, § 28-3-4)
MUNICIPAL POOL POLICIES
§ 92.060 ADMISSION.
   The admission prices for season passes and daily rates shall be established
by the Pool Board.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-1) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 92.061 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds are given for only two reasons:
      (1)   If a person is asked to leave for health reasons; or
      (2)   If a sudden storm occurs after a person has paid and this person
has only been inside the pool area for 30 minutes or less.
   (B)   Refunds are not given to individuals who are asked to leave the pool
facility because of disciplinary reasons. If bad weather is imminent, it is the
duty of the cashier to inform patrons coming into the pool that, in the event
of the pool closing, money will not be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-2)
§ 92.062 BASKET ROOM AND DRESSING AREA.
   (A)   Be courteous to other pool patrons. Avoid loitering at entrances and
basket check area which causes congestion.
   (B)   After being admitted, pick up basket before entering change area.
   (C)   Pool personnel are not allowed to keep patrons’ articles.
   (D)   Please put all clothes in baskets and give to basket room personnel
before entering pool area. Do not lose the check tag. Secure it to the swim
suit. This tag must be prevented to receive the basket. Lost tags cause
unnecessary delays.
   (E)   If a person has valuables such as jewelry, purses, glasses and the
like, these can be checked with basket room personnel. Best protection against
lost items is to leave valuables at home. Swimming pool management is not
responsible for lost articles.
   (F)   No smoking is permitted in dressing rooms or pool area.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.063 RULES FOR POOL AREA.
   (A)   Before entering pool area, everyone is required to take a soap and
water shower.
   (B)   Persons with colds, coughs, red or infected eyes, skin eruptions, open
wounds, sores or bandages are not permitted in pool area.
   (C)   Persons under the influence of alcohol or narcotics are prohibited
from using the pool. Drinking intoxicating liquors or using narcotics will
result in immediate suspension of pool privileges.
   (D)   Smoking, eating, chewing gum or drinking bottled or canned beverages
on the pool premises is not allowed, except in those areas provided for such
activity.
 
   (E)   Glass containers are not permitted in the pool area.
   (F)   All persons must obey rules and requests made by the lifesaving
personnel.
   (G)   Friends and relatives may not visit lifesaving personnel during duty
hours.
   (H)   Distracting the attention of the lifeguard is dangerous and
prohibited. Diversion of guard’s attention from duty could result in a
fatality.
   (I)   Lifeguards may not engage in any unnecessary conversation with anyone,
nor carry on any activity other than watching swimmers or performing other
assigned duties.
   (J)   Safety equipment or furniture must not be altered, moved or used by
unauthorized persons, except in an emergency.
   (K)   Floating apparatus, glass items, sticks, stones or any object which is
not part of the regular programmed equipment items are not allowed in the pool
area.
   (L)   Animals or pets of any kind are prohibited in the pool area.
   (M)   Abusive or foul language is prohibited.
   (N)   No persons may teach swimming or conduct aquatic group activity
without the approval of the pool manager. This does not apply to a parent-child
relationship.
   (O)   Street shoes and clothes must not be worn on the pool deck.
   (P)   Lying on deck close to the edge of the pool where swimmers may trip
over sunbathers is dangerous and prohibited. Patrons should lie or sit as far
back from the pool edge as the width of the deck allows.
   (Q)   Dangerous practices are prohibited at all times. These can endanger
your welfare as well as the comfort and welfare of others. Patrons must not run
on decks, climb, sit or jump from fences or structures not provided for such
activity; dive in shallow water; swim in the diving area; double-bounce or
crowd springboards; duck, push, pull or splash swimmers. Horseplay or wrestling
on decks, ladders, springboards or in the pool or dressing rooms is prohibited.
Tag and horse-and-rider games are not allowed. Riding wheeled vehicles in the
pool area is not allowed. Guards must be alert for overexertion at all times.
   (R)   Spitting, spouting of water, or blowing the nose in the pool is
strictly prohibited.
   (S)   No person may interfere with an emergency rescue, accident or drill
procedure.
   (T)   Emergency or exit signals must be observed. Swimmers must leave the
pool area immediately upon the signal or request of pool personnel; an
emergency may exist in which all persons may need to cooperate.
   (U)   Non-swimmers or those with little ability are prohibited from hanging
on to walls in the deep end of the pool.
   (V)   The swimming pool will be closed in the following circumstances:
      (1)   When the outside temperature is not 70°F by 1:00 p.m.;
      (2)   When the community is under a tornado watch;
 
      (3)   When the weather is inclement and the danger exists of an
electrical storm; and
      (4)   When there is a malfunction of the swimming pool’s sanitation,
filtration or disinfection equipment.
   (W)   Remember, the above rules are for a person’s safety and those around
him or her. Have an enjoyable swimming experience.
   (X)   Please contact the swimming pool staff with any problems. They are
there to be of service to you.
   (Y)   If a group desires to rent the swimming pool after normal hours, it
shall contact the swimming pool manager or the Director of Parks and Recreation
for details and application forms.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-4)
§ 92.064 WADING POOL RULES.
   The wading pool rules are as follows.
   (A)   The wading pool area is restricted to children six years and under or
any older children who do not possess the ability to swim in the larger pool
without supervision.
   (B)   All children using the wading pool area are limited to wading
activities. Absolutely no swimming unless private instruction is being given
with pool manager’s approval.
   (C)   All children using the wading pools must be accompanied by a parent or
guardian within the fenced wading pool area and parent or guardian must be
attentive to the child at all times.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-5)
§ 92.065 GENERAL STAFF POLICIES.
   The following are the city’s general staff policies.
   (A)   Each employee must exhibit tact, courtesy, pleasant attitude and a
willingness to serve the public.
   (B)   Be well groomed and neat in appearance. High standards of personal
hygiene and cleanliness must be maintained.
   (C)   Reading materials, radios, musical instruments or other distractions
that might impair efficiency will not be allowed.
   (D)   Lost articles, including cash, must be turned over to the pool manager
or head guard.
   (E)   Employees must be prompt in reporting to work. All employees must be
at their stations ready to work at their designated starting time. Employees
must not leave until their assigned work period is over. Any change in work
schedule must be cleared with the pool manager or head guard.
   (F)   The pool will be in operation only during hours set by the Department.
No unauthorized or free swimming is permitted.
   (G)   Relatives, friends and off-duty employees should not visit pool staff
during working hours. No employee is permitted to keep personal effects for a
patron as a personal favor. Personnel are not to put articles in patron’s
basket; the patron must place articles in his or her own basket.
   (H)   No smoking and eating is permitted while on duty.
   (I)   Lifeguards are not permitted to talk with patrons while in the towers
unless it is in the performance of their duties. While answering questions, the
lifeguards in the towers should not take their eyes off the water and deck that
they are guarding.
   (J)   Employees are not to resell any article at the swimming pool to any
patron.
   (K)   Use of the office phone is restricted to swimming pool business and
emergency purposes.
   (L)   Unnecessary ornaments, such as earrings, bracelets and pins, must not
be worn by lifeguards while on duty.
   (M)   Blankets may not be wrapped around the body of a lifeguard while on
duty in the towers.
   (N)   Drinking of intoxicating liquors while on duty or reporting to work
when under the influence of drugs or alcohol will result in immediate
dismissal.
   (O)   Do not touch a patron while disciplining them. If they will not obey
instructions, contact the pool manager or head lifeguard.
   (P)   People not employed by the Parks and Recreation Department, other city
employees on special assignments, or vending service personnel, are not allowed
inside the basket room, office, chlorine house and/or filter room.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.066 GENERAL POOL RULES.
   (A)   The city is not responsible for accidents or lost articles.
   (B)   Swimmers must be able to swim two widths of the pool to qualify for
swimming in deep water if the pool manager or guard have any doubt of the
swimmer’s ability.
   (C)   Bathing suits (not cut-offs) must be worn in the pool.
   (D)   Articles of clothing, food, cigarettes, glasses or other personal
articles other than bathing suits or bathing caps will not be allowed in the
pool.
   (E)   Swim fins, goggles, flotation devices, diving masks and the like are
not allowed in the pool.
   (F)   There will be a five-minute break every hour. Everyone must clear the
pool.
   (G)   No one is allowed on the ropes, except in emergency situations.
   (H)   No diving in less than four feet of water.
   (I)   No diving or jumping from ladders.
   (J)   No entry to deck or pool unless lifeguards are in their towers.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.067 DIVING AREA RULES.
   (A)   Enter diving area from diving boards.
 
   (B)   Exit diving area immediately after entry. Do not swim under diving
boards.
   (C)   Only one person is to dive from the board at a time.
   (D)   Dive straight off the end of the board.
   (E)   Only one person on the diving board at a time.
   (F)   The previous diver must clear the area before another dive is taken.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.068 ACCIDENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In the event of a regular (non-drowning) accident, the following
procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   In life-threatening situations (non-drowning), call: 9-1-1
(ambulance). Tell them:
         (a)   What you need; respirator, ambulance and the like;
         (b)   Where you are;
         (c)   Basic facts: near drowning, broken leg, possible broken back and
the like; and
         (d)   Don’t hang up. Let them ask you questions and repeat the
information.
      (2)   Parents should be notified immediately, but again in a non-alarming
way. Calls should be made by the pool manager or head guard.
      (3)   In cases where patron can be moved, the person should be taken to
the swimming pool manager’s office.
      (4)   In all accident cases, standard Red Cross first aid procedures must
be followed.
      (5)   In non-life threatening cases, if person is a minor, call parents
and explain situation in a non-alarming way. Let parents decide whether they
want to pick child up or they call ambulance. Call is to be made by the pool
manager or head guard.
      (6)   Another staff member should fill out accident form and get as much
information from witnesses as possible if victim is not able to respond to
questions.
      (7)   If ambulance is called, a staff member should be at entrance to
meet them and direct to injured party.
      (8)   If accident occurs on pool deck and victim cannot be moved, a staff
member should keep the area clear of onlookers.
   (B)   The procedure shall be followed in drowning or stoppage of breathing
situations only.
      (1)   Staff person who makes recovery of person starts artificial
respiration on the spot. If pool office is not close at hand, dispense with
moving victim.
      (2)   A second staff member should call ambulance.
      (3)   A third staff member should clear all patrons from accident scene.
      (4)   A fourth staff member should be at bath house entrance to meet
ambulance and direct them to accident victim.
      (5)   A fifth person should stay with person doing artificial respiration
and assist as much as possible.
      (6)   After call is made for ambulance assistance telling them who is
calling, where accident is and the nature of injury, a call should be made to
the Director, Parks and Recreation Office, and the Police Department. If it is
a drowning accident, if Director of Parks and Recreation is not in, then the
Pool Manager or Assistant will call parents.
   (C)   In all accident cases, staff members are not to discuss with anyone
the following:
      (1)   Liability coverage of the city; and
      (2)   The nature of the accident.
   (D)   Any statements to the press, radio and television concerning the
accident will be made by the Director of Parks and Recreation or other city
officials.
   (E)   Do not transport any injured person in your private vehicle.
   (F)   Staff members are not to accompany injured person to hospital. Staff
presence is needed at the swimming pool. Exception would be if ambulance crew
needed your assistance.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-9) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 92.069 DISCIPLINE PROBLEMS.
   (A)   All swimming pool personnel shall set good examples and not deviate
from established rules and regulations. If a person obeys the rules, it is much
easier for him or her to enforce them.
   (B)   Each employee is responsible for enforcing the rules and regulations
in their specific job.
   (C)   In the event that a patron is not willing to cooperate with your
reasonable request, the assistance of the pool manager or, in his or her
absence, the head lifeguard should be sought.
   (D)   At no time, lay a hand on a patron for disciplinary action unless it
is in the process of breaking up a fight.
   (E)   If in circumstances where patron will not obey the pool manager or, in
his or her absence, the head guard, call the Police Department and/or Director
of Parks and Recreation for their assistance.
 
   (F)   In cases where a patron is asked to leave the swimming pool premises,
if it is a minor, call parents first before sending home. Explain to parents
why child is being sent home and for how long child’s privilege is suspended
from pool. Pool manager or head lifeguard is to make the call.
   (G)   If you do not reach parents, have child remain in an area where they
can be watched, but not in the pool or in an area that would interfere with the
operation of the swimming pool. Sending children home without parents’
knowledge is not a safe practice.
   (H)   If anyone is suspended from the privilege of using the swimming pool,
a report should be sent to the Director of Parks and Recreation, giving
specific details of what happened. A formal letter written by the Director of
Parks and Recreation will be forwarded to the party (if an adult) or to the
parents (if a minor) explaining the action taken and when the party will be
granted permission to use the swimming pool again.
   (I)   Listed below are the penalties for disobedience of different rules and
regulations. The penalties are not negotiable. The object is to treat all
patrons the same no matter who they are.
Offense First Incident Second Incident Third Incident
Offense                      First Incident Second Incident Third Incident
Bring pets inside pool area  Warning        1 week          2 weeks
Bringing glass containers or
objects in pool area
Chewing gum, eating outside  Warning        1 week          2 weeks
designated area
Distracting lifeguards       2 weeks        Remainder of season
attention on purpose
Failure to obey pool         2 weeks        4 weeks         Remainder of season
personnel
Failure to take soap and     Warning        1 week          2 weeks
water shower
Interfering with emergency   Remainder of season
or drill
Non-swimmer in deep end      Warning        1 week          2 weeks
Participating in dangerous   Warning        2 weeks         4 weeks
practices
Smoking on pool premises     Warning        1 week          2 weeks
Spitting, spouting water or  Warning        1 week          2 weeks
blowing nose in water
Swimming during non-         Remainder of season
supervised hours
Unauthorized use of safety   Warning        2 weeks         4 weeks
equipment
Under the influence of       Remainder of season
alcohol or narcotics
Use of foul language         Warning        1 week          2 weeks
Wearing street shoes on pool Warning        1 week          2 weeks
deck
 
(Prior Code, § 28-4-10)
§ 92.070 OPENING PROCEDURES; LESSONS.
   The procedures described below shall be followed before opening pool to the
public for swimming lessons.
   (A)   Check deck and pool for broken glass and clean up. Be sure to vacuum
pool if glass is present on deck.
   (B)   Clean up litter from deck area, change and clean the restroom areas,
and hallways.
   (C)   Clean up litter and broken glass in front of pool building.
   (D)   Check pH and chlorine levels and record.
   (E)   Check the air temperature to make sure it is above 70°F.
   (F)   Check pool equipment for safety condition: diving boards; pool
ladders; stair rails; lifesaving safety equipment; park benches; tables; and
mechanical room.
   (G)   Underwater lights should be turned off.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-11)
§ 92.071 OPENING PROCEDURE; PUBLIC SWIMMING.
   The procedures below should be followed before opening pool to the public
every day.
   (A)   Check the pool deck for broken glass and clean up. If broken glass is
located on pool deck, vacuum swimming pool.
   (B)   Pick up litter on pool premises and in the immediate area outside of
the fence and parking lot.
   (C)   Clean restroom and shower areas and disinfect.
   (D)   Check pH and chlorine levels and record.
   (E)   Check all equipment for safety condition (diving boards, pool ladders,
hand rails, lifesaving safety equipment, park benches and tables).
   (F)   Wash down pool deck areas and disinfect.
   (G)   Make sure there is enough toilet paper in the restrooms.
   (H)   Fill soap dispensers in shower rooms.
   (I)   Open doors to the public after all previous steps have been
accomplished.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-12)
§ 92.072 CLOSING PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall apply to the closing of the pool.
   (A)   Pool patrons should be asked to clear pool area ten minutes before
closing.
 
   (B)   Before lifeguards leave towers, all patrons must be out of the pool
area and in the bath house.
   (C)   Lifeguards will scan bottom of pool during patrons exit and again once
all patrons are out of pool area.
   (D)   After scanning bottom of pool, lifeguards should put lifesaving
equipment in storage area.
   (E)   Personnel will check deck areas for forgotten articles and turn them
over to the pool manager or the head lifeguard.
   (F)   Once patrons have all gone, restroom and change areas will be checked
for forgotten articles.
   (G)   Change areas, restroom and shower areas, deck areas will be checked
for litter.
   (H)   Part of the underwater pool lights should be turned on for safety
inspections by Police Department at night.
   (I)   All doors and gates will be locked and checked before head lifeguard
or manager leaves pool facility. Head lifeguard or manager will be last person
to leave.
   (J)   All of the days cash receipts will be totaled and the money bags will
be placed in bank night depository by the pool manager or head lifeguards.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-13)
§ 92.073 LIFEGUARDS’ DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Major responsibility is to protect the life and well-being of each
person using the facility and to prevent people from getting into situations
that endanger themselves or others.
   (B)   The lifeguard is directly responsible to the swimming pool manager or,
in his or her absence, the head lifeguard.
   (C)   The lifeguards’ safety duties are:
      (1)   To keep physically fit, and mentally alert, and ready to meet any
emergency;
      (2)   To be familiar with, study, enforce and put to use, all the latest
methods of safety procedures;
      (3)   To go into action when in doubt of a patron’s safety, and not to
take a chance on anyone’s life or welfare by undue waiting. Prevent accidents
before they happen;
      (4)   To remain in the lifeguard towers, or on stations assigned until
relieved by regular trained lifeguard staff;
      (5)   To note or take action or call to the pool manager’s attention any
acts or procedures that might endanger or create disharmony among the pool
patrons or staff;
      (6)   To use the whistle sparingly, lest it becomes too common to attract
attention;
      (7)   To check all pool facilities and patrol the complete bottom of the
pool at the close of each shift for security reasons;
      (8)   Faulty equipment should be put out of use and action taken to
correct or remove or replace said equipment;
      (9)   To know, verbatim, the pool danger areas; and
      (10)   Check to make certain all doors and gates to pool are locked when
a lifeguard is not on duty guarding the pool.
   (D)   Additional related duties of the lifeguard are:
      (1)   All pool personnel, including the lifeguards, are responsible for
the sanitation and maintenance of the facilities. The duties involve all areas
of the pool and the pool building; and
      (2)   Tasks are as follows:
         (a)   Keeping debris from the pool surface and bottom, including
drains in the pool bottom, scuppers and decks;
         (b)   Sweep all decks to remove excessive debris before washing;
         (c)   Scrub and disinfect the following areas: showers; restrooms;
diving board; and stand and deck;
         (d)   Brush, vacuum and chlorinate the pool on a schedule set by the
Pool Manager; and
         (e)   Other related duties as may be required and assigned by the Pool
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-14)
§ 92.074 BASKET ROOM PERSONNEL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Basket room personnel are directly responsible to the swimming pool
manager or, in his or her absence, the head lifeguard.
   (B)   Basket room personnel shall operate the basket room according to
departmental policies and not deviate from such unless authorized by the
swimming pool manager.
   (C)   Other duties may be assigned by the swimming pool manager not directly
associated with the basket room, but will contribute to the best interest of
the swimming pool facility.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-15)
§ 92.075 EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hours. All personnel are expected to be at their scheduled pool a
minimum of 15 minutes prior to opening. They will ready the pool for opening
(i.e., set out safety equipment, ropes, chairs, counting money and the like).
They will dress and await instructions for the day by the pool manager. They
will then be at their assigned post at opening times. All personnel will remain
at the pool until the end of their shift, at which time they will check with
the pool manager before leaving.
   (B)   Absences.
      (1)   Any employee needing time-off will find their own substitute. This
shall be done at least 24 hours prior to the beginning of the shift.** All
substitutes will come from the approved list which will be updated
periodically. All substitutions will be duly noted on the form provided at the
pool and the persons switching will receive the manager’s approval. Manager’s
approval will only be given after each employee concerned in the substitution
has contacted him or her, preferably at the same time, and 24 hours prior to
the shift. (**Employees should try to switch with or give away hours to
regularly scheduled employees before contacting substitutes.)
      (2)   In the case of illness, each employee should still make an effort
to find a substitute and notify the person in charge of the pool of their
illness and subsequent substitution as soon as it becomes apparent that the
substitution will be necessary.
      (3)   Any employee who is absent and does not provide a substitute who
has been previously approved by the manager, will be given two cuts. The only
exception is in the case of illness. Even in this case, everyone knows several
hours prior to their shift whether or not they are too sick to work and shall
call the pool manager, even if it means reaching him or her at home.
   (C)   Tardiness. If you know you are going to be unavoidably late, call the
pool and speak to the pool manager. This is not only courteous, it is
necessary.
   (D)   Attire.
      (1)   Instructor: one-piece swimsuit; white t-shirt; clipboard;
instructor’s manual;
      (2)   Guard: one-piece swimsuit; whistle with neck lanyard; guard hat or
white sunvisor; sunglasses; and
      (3)   Attendant: clean, neat sportswear or swimsuit.
   (E)   Schedule. Work assignments will be the responsibility of the pool
manager.
(Prior Code, § 28-4-16)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Abandonment
   
93.03   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
93.04   Removal of motor vehicles or other vehicles; towing or hauling away
   
93.05   Police responsibilities
   
93.06   Unknown owner
   
93.07   Identifying and tracing vehicle
   
93.08   Reclaimed vehicles; expenses
   
93.09   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
93.10   Disposal without notice
   
93.11   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
93.12   Public sale proceeds
   
93.13   Liability
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair, rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   COMPONENT PART. Any part of a vehicle other than a tire having a
manufacturer’s identification number or an identification number issued by the
Secretary of State.
   DERELICT VEHICLE. Any inoperable, unregistered or discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its characteristic as a substantial property
and left unattended without justification on the owner’s, lienholder’s or other
legally entitled person’s land contrary to the public policy expressed in this
code.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the municipality.
   REMOVE. To remove, deface, cover or destroy.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or exempt
from registration, excepting, however, bicycles, snowmobiles and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-201
§ 93.02 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Highway. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part
thereof on any highway in the municipality is unlawful and subject to penalties
as set forth herein.
   (B)   Private property. The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on
private or public property other than a highway in view of the general public
anywhere in the municipality is unlawful, except on property of the owner, or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
   (C)   Owner’s property. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
private property shall be authorized for removal by the Police Department,
after a waiting period of seven days or more, or may be removed immediately if
determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle under 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.
A violation of this section is subject to penalties as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-201
§ 93.03 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   Where an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the municipality
who is not the owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person of the
vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Police Department when the
vehicle is within the corporate limits of the municipality. Upon receipt of
such notification, the Police Department or designated representative shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow, as set forth in §
93.05 of this chapter, until the vehicle is claimed by the owner, lienholder or
any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed
of as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-202
§ 93.04 REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER VEHICLES; TOWING OR HAULING AWAY.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in an
urban district for ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by the Police Department.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to the highway
by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (C)   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by the Police Department, the owner, lienholder or other legally
entitled person of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs.
   (D)   The remaining provisions of 625 ILCS 5/4-203 are hereby adopted by
reference and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-203
§ 93.05 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided herein, the Police
Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing by
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series
name, body style, vehicle identification number and license plate year and
number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-204
§ 93.06 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, they will cause
the motor vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a
directed communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining
the required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department authorizing the impoundment shall cause the
stolen motor vehicle files of the State Police to be searched by a directed
communication to the State Police for stolen or wanted information of the
vehicle. The information determined from these record searches shall be used by
the Police Department in sending notification by certified mail to the owner,
lienholder or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held,
requesting a disposition to be made and setting forth public sale information.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-205
§ 93.07 IDENTIFYING AND TRACING VEHICLE.
   When the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to
the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of the state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner, lienholder or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the State Police shall be immediately forwarded to the Police Department having
custody of the vehicle for notification purposes as set forth in §
93.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-206
§ 93.08 RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in §
93.09 of this chapter, the owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled
to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police
Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner, lienholder or other legally
entitled person under this section until all towing and storage charges have
been paid.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-207
§ 93.09 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle seven years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of 30 days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police
Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
auction to a person licensed as an automatic parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap
processor under 625 ILCS 5. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be
posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the
sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place to be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder or other person
known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of the state, the sending of a second certified notice
shall not be required.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-9)
§ 93.10 DISPOSAL WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder or
other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or
unclaimed vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any
means provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided for in
§
93.09 of this chapter without notice to any person whose identity cannot be
determined.
   (B)   Old car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it shall be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining the identity of the
registered owner and lienholder and contacting the registered owner and
lienholder by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition; and an examination of the State Police stolen motor vehicle files
for theft and wanted information. (At the expiration of the ten-day period
without the benefit of disposition information being received from the
registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, the Chief of
Police shall authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk.)
   (C)   Antique vehicle. A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may,
however, be sold to a person desiring to restore it.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-209
§ 93.11 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder or other legally
entitled person or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise
disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction shall be
maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of
the sale or disposal.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-210
§ 93.12 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Police Department and disposed of as set
forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after
the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in
the municipal treasury.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-211
§ 93.13 LIABILITY.
   A law enforcement officer or agency, towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his or her legal
representative, lienholder or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of
as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-213
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this chapter,
upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $75, nor more than $750, shall be
required by the court to make a disposition on the abandoned or unclaimed
vehicle and pay all towing and storage charges pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-214
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
Cemetery Board
   
94.01   Board established
   
94.02   Duties of the Board
   
94.03   Officers
   
94.04   Treasurer’s responsibilities
   
94.05   Clerk’s duties
   
94.06   Powers of Board
   
94.07   Care Fund
   
94.08   Council delegate
   
94.09   Named
   
94.10   Control of cemetery
   
94.11   Digging graves
Regulations
   
94.25   Trespassing
   
94.26   Riding on grass
   
94.27   Fences
   
94.28   Garbage and refuse
   
94.29   Burning in cemeteries
   
94.30   Fees
   
94.31   Burials
   
94.32   Records
   
94.33   Application of code
   
94.34   Unlawful entry
   
94.35   Loitering; exceptions
   
94.36   Speed of vehicles
   
94.37   Operation of vehicles and parking
   
94.38   Grave decorations (flowers)
   
94.39   Rubbish; debris
   
94.40   Property damage
   
94.41   Trees, shrubs and flowers
   
94.42   Cost
CEMETERY BOARD
§ 94.01 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   A Cemetery Board is hereby established.
   (A)    The Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The members shall serve concurrent two-year terms or until their
successors are approved. The appointments shall be made on May 1 of every
second year after the initial appointment.
   (C)   The Cemetery Board shall establish and maintain all policies and
practices for the operation of the city cemetery.
   (D)   The Cemetery Board shall receive all moneys from sales of cemetery
lots and all gifts and legacies to said cemetery. Any gift or legacy of real or
personal property may be converted to cash. All cemetery property and funds,
whether received by sale of lots or by gift or legacy, shall be prudently
invested and shall be handled as follows:
      (1)   Cemetery property which is received by gift or legacy shall be
prudently invested and the income therefrom applied by the Board to the care
and maintenance of the cemetery.
      (2)   All the proceeds from the sale of cemetery lots and the moneys
received for grave openings, grave preparation, internment, entombment,
cremation, and internment shall be applied by the Board for the current and
ongoing care and maintenance of the cemetery.
   (E)   The Cemetery Board shall meet and organize in accordance with the
state statutes and shall operate in accordance with the statute and any
revisions thereof and all applicable ordinances of the city.
   (F)   The Cemetery Board shall keep a correct plat of the cemetery together
with a full and complete record of all persons who have purchased and own lots
in the cemetery. Upon the sale of any lot, the Superintendent shall cause to be
prepared a deed for such a lot to be executed by the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021; Ord. 24-668, passed 5-9-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-2
§ 94.02 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Cemetery Board shall manage, control and supervise the cemetery under
the direction of the Mayor. The ordinances passed by the City Council governing
the cemetery shall control the Board of Managers in all its actions.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 94.03 OFFICERS.
   (A)   As soon as convenient after appointment, the Cemetery Board shall meet
and shall organize by selecting one of its members to be President and another
to be Clerk of the Board; and shall also elect a Treasurer who may or may not
be a member of the Board. Before entering upon his or her duties, the Treasurer
shall execute a bond to the people of the state for the use of the Board of
Managers in a penal sum of not less than double the value of the money or funds
coming into his or her hands as such Treasurer, conditioned for the faithful
performance of his or her duties and for the faithful accounting for all
property which, by virtue of his or her office, comes into his or her
possession.
   (B)   The bond shall be in such form and with such sureties as may be
approved by the City Council appointing the Cemetery Board, to be approved and
preserved in the same manner as is the bond of the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-2
§ 94.04 TREASURER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall have the custody of all money and property
received in trust by the Cemetery Board, and shall pay out the same only upon
the written order of the Board, signed by at least two of them, and he or she
shall keep permanent books of record of all such trust funds and of all
receipts and disbursements thereof and for what purposes received and
disbursed.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall annually make a written report to the Cemetery
Board, under oath, showing balances, receipts and disbursements, including a
statement showing the amount and principal of trust funds on hand and how
invested. This report shall be audited by the Board, and if found correct,
shall be transmitted to the City Council, at the same time that the Treasurer
is required by law to make his or her report, to be approved and preserved in
the same manner, if found to be correct.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-2
§ 94.05 CLERK’S DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk of Cemetery Board shall keep, in a book provided for such
purpose, a permanent record of the proceedings of the Board, signed by the
President and attested by the Clerk and shall also keep a permanent record of
the several trust funds, from what sources received, the amounts thereof and
for what uses and purposes, respectively, and he or she shall annually, at the
time of transmitting the report to the City Treasurer, make a written report,
under oath, to the City Council, stating therein, substantially the same matter
required to be reported by the Treasurer of the Board.
   (B)   The Clerk’s report, if found to be correct, shall be approved and
preserved by the City Council.
   (C)   The Mayor shall have the power to remove from office any or all of the
Cemetery Board or the Treasurer, for non-performance of duties or for
misappropriation or wrongful use of the funds or property, and to require a
just and proper accounting for the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-2
§ 94.06 POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Cemetery Board shall have the powers and authority provided by 65 ILCS
5/11-52.1-1. The Board shall have the power to hire the help for the
maintenance of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 94.07 CARE FUND.
   The Board is authorized to manage and care for the funds, gifts and other
devices in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-52.2-1.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7)
§ 94.08 COUNCIL DELEGATE.
   In addition to the members of the Cemetery Board, the Mayor shall annually
appoint one Alderman, as non-voting members of the Board. He or she shall meet
with the Cemetery Board and shall keep the City Council informed as to all
matters coming before the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 94.09 NAMED.
   All of those tracts of land heretofore and now used as cemeteries and the
additions thereto, in the city which have been dedicated as cemeteries, are
hereby rededicated for that purpose and shall continue to be known as
cemeteries and shall be used only for that purpose and subject to such rules
and regulations as may be hereafter passed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9)
§ 94.10 CONTROL OF CEMETERY.
   (A)   The Board shall have the authority to bid and contract out the upkeep
of the cemetery.
   (B)   This shall include keeping the cemetery in good order, clean up of all
rubbish, cutting all grass and weeds from any walks and passage ways and
perform such other duties as may be required by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10)
§ 94.11 DIGGING GRAVES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the authority to contract out the digging of the
graves.
   (B)   Graves shall be dug as designated by the burial permit.
   (C)   All graves shall be dug so that the bottom of the coffin shall be at
least six feet below the surface of the ground and the grave is to have 18
inches of soil over the casket.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-11) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
REGULATIONS
§ 94.25 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, remove or injure any
vault, tombstone, monument, gravestone or curbing or any article placed by the
owner or persons in control of any lot or shall cut or break any tree or shrub
or plant in the cemetery, or willfully disturb the contents of any vault or
tomb or grave.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 RIDING ON GRASS.
   No person shall ride any horse or drive upon any private lot in the
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.27 FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or lot owner in the cemetery to erect or
construct any enclosure or fence on or around any lot in the cemetery; provided
that, this shall not be so construed as to prevent any person from erecting any
concrete or stone coping not over 18 inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.28 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to dispose or place any garbage or other refuse, such
as papers, cans, boxes or other non-food waste substances and materials in any
area of the cemetery at any time.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.29 BURNING IN CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any refuse, such as papers, boxes, waste
building materials or any other waste substances and materials, in the cemetery
without first securing permission from the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.30 FEES.
   A fee in an amount equal to the perpetual care fee, plus the regular cost of
opening a grave in any plot in the cemeteries for which the perpetual care fee
has not been paid shall be paid before such grave is opened.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
§ 94.31 BURIALS.
   No deceased body shall be buried in the cemetery unless a permit therefor
has been issued per the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.32 RECORDS.
   The Board shall keep a record of all permits issued, with the date of
burial, name of deceased and upon what lot buried and such other information as
may be required.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-1 et seq.
§ 94.33 APPLICATION OF CITY CODE.
   All provisions of the municipal code now in force or hereafter enacted
relating to and defining public offenses in the city, insofar as the same shall
be applicable, shall be in full force and effect in the city cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-9)
§ 94.34 UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than duly authorized
officers, officials or employees of the city to enter or be upon the cemetery
grounds during the time after sunset and before sunrise of any day without
first obtaining the permission of the Superintendent. It shall further be
unlawful at all times for any person to enter or leave the grounds other than
by the established and open entrances or gateways.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.35 LOITERING; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter upon lots and graves of the
city cemetery or for the parent or guardian of any child under the age of 16 to
permit such child to be within the cemetery grounds unless accompanied by an
adult person; provided, nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any
person having lawful business in the cemetery in connection with the
improvement thereof or persons visiting the graves of relatives or friends from
being in the cemetery in accordance with the rules.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.36 SPEED OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in the cemetery
faster than ten mph.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.37 OPERATION OF VEHICLES AND PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the cemetery,
except over a roadway open for vehicular traffic or obstruct any path or
driveway within the cemetery open to vehicular traffic.
      (2)   No person shall use the cemetery grounds or any driveway therein as
a public thoroughfare or drive any vehicle through said grounds, except for
purposes of making deliveries in the cemetery or visiting any grave site.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent and/or the police to
direct all vehicular traffic and the Superintendent is authorized to direct the
parking or standing of all vehicles in the cemetery.
      (2)   No person shall disobey or disregard the directions of the
Superintendent relating to the movement or standing of all vehicles within the
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.38 GRAVE DECORATIONS (FLOWERS).
   The placing of cut flowers or artificial flowers over individual graves
shall be permitted; however, the city shall not be responsible for the care of
such flowers or the containers in which they are placed. Furthermore, the city
shall remove, without notice, all flowers, real or artificial which remain over
15 days. Special signs will be posted regarding removal of Memorial Day
flowers.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-14)
§ 94.39 RUBBISH; DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any rubbish, trash, waste
materials, litter or debris of any kind in the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.40 PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   No person shall remove, molest, injure, mar, deface, throw down or destroy
any headstone, monument, survey marker, corner marker, tomb, vault or mausoleum
or decoration on any cemetery lot in the cemetery or open, disturb or molest
any grave or place of burial therein. This shall not prohibit acts by cemetery
officers and employees or public officials in carrying out their duties.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.41 TREES, SHRUBS AND FLOWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to plant any trees,
shrub or other plant in the cemetery, except those permitted by the general
landscape plan approved by the governing body of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to cut down, injure,
break or destroy any tree, shrub or other plant growing in the cemetery or to
pick, pluck or cut any flower or decorative plant, except as authorized by the
cemetery rules.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.42 COST.
    Current cemetery rates for grave openings/closings for full casket, urn
container for cremated remains, grave space sales, and additional costs
associated with same as approved by the Cemetery Board from time-to-time will
be kept on file in the City Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-18; Ord. 24-668, passed 5-9-2024)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Restrictions
Fireworks
   
95.15   Findings
   
95.16   Purpose
   
95.17   Scope of authority
   
95.18   Definitions
   
95.19   Prohibitions and unlawful acts
   
95.20   Public exhibitions; permit application content
   
95.21   Public exhibitions; permit application filing
 
   
95.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues,
but excluding landscape waste.
   GARBAGE OR HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products; including
plastic containers.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under § 9(b) of the
Environmental Protection Act of the state, being 415 ILCS 5/9(b).
(Prior Code, § 27-9-1)
§ 95.02 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall case or knowingly permit or allow, on premises owned,
occupied or controlled by him or her in the city, any open burning of garbage,
trash, refuse, rubber, oil, paper, wood or other combustible material, or cause
or so allow any such burning in a chamber not specifically designed for that
purpose in accordance with regulations of the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency during the times which burning is not allowed.
   (B)   Burning shall only be allowed upon the following exceptions and during
the following stated times. Citizens may burn papers, boxes and small branches
in approved containers on the first and third Saturday of each month from 8:00
a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-2) Penalty, see §
95.99
FIREWORKS
§ 95.15 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city has found that the widespread and uncontrolled sale and use
of fireworks causes substantial harm to persons and property.
   (B)   Such harm poses a serious threat to the health, safety and general
welfare of the community.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-3)
§ 95.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to eliminate the harm to health and
property within the city and is designed to safeguard the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens and protect property.
(Prior Code, § 27-10-1)
§ 95.17 SCOPE OF AUTHORITY.
   Unless exempted by provisions contained herein, the provisions of this
subchapter shall apply to all persons within the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-10-2)
§ 95.18 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy
canes or toy guns in which any such explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, lady
fingers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, dayglo bombs, sparklers or other
devices containing any such explosive substance. The term FIREWORKS shall not
include model rockets and model rocket engines which are designed, sold and
used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models, when actually used
for that purpose and used under the supervision of the science instructor or
other competent adult and when the place and time of firing the sky rockets or
missiles has been approved by the Police Chief. The term FIREWORKS shall not
include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps manufactured in accordance with the United States Department of
Transportation regulations for packing and shipping of toy papers or plastic
caps are used and such toy paper or plastic caps are manufactured as provided
therein; except that, no toy paper or plastic cap shall contain more than
twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive composition per cap. Each
package containing toy paper or plastic caps offered for retail sale shall be
labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap. The sale and use of
these toy paper or plastic caps shall be permitted at all times. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as applying to the manufacture, storage, sale
or use of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other
classes of public or private transportation, nor applying to the military or
naval forces of the United States or of the state, or to peace officers.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as forbidding the sale and use of
blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or athletic events.
   SELL or DISPLAY. Selling, offering to sell, exhibiting or possessing with
intent to give away, sell or offer to sell within the city.
   USE. Purchasing, possessing, setting off or otherwise causing to explode or
discharge or burn, any firecrackers, torpedo, rocket or other fireworks or
explosives of inflammable material, or to discharge them or throw them from
land, air or highway into any area of the city. This prohibition includes any
substance, compound, mixture or article that in conjunction with any other
substance or compound would be dangerous from any of the foregoing standpoints.
This provision shall also mean and include casting, throwing, lighting or
firing any squib, rocket, cracker, torpedo, grenade, gun, revolver, pistol, cap
or cartridge or other fireworks or combustible firecrackers of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 27-10-4)
§ 95.19 PROHIBITIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell
or display, offer to sell, possess, give away, store or use fireworks within
the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit fireworks to
be used or exploded on his or her premises or premises under his or her
control. It shall be unlawful for any person to mishandle or misuse fireworks.
   (B)   The following constitute unlawful mishandling or misuse of fireworks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to throw any firework, whether such firework
is burning or not.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to throw or otherwise use fireworks from an
automobile or other motor vehicle, whether the vehicle is moving or standing
still.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to store, keep, sell or use any fireworks
within 50 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station, gasoline bulk
station or any building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are sold in
quantities in excess of one gallon.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or use any fireworks within 1,000
feet of any hospital, sanitarium or infirmary.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or use any fireworks in, under or
on an automobile or other motor vehicle, whether moving or standing still.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or use fireworks within 100 feet
of any retail fireworks stand or facility where fireworks are sold.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to mishandle or misuse fireworks in any other
way.
(Prior Code, § 27-10-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS; PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENT.
   (A)   An applicant for a permit for a public exhibition or display of
fireworks shall file with the City Clerk a written application therefor, duly
subscribed and sworn by the applicant.
   (B)   Such application shall set forth the following:
      (1)   The name of the association, organization or corporation sponsoring
the display, together with the names of the persons to be in charge of the
display;
      (2)   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held;
      (3)   The exact location planned for the display, that shall be approved
by the Fire Chief;
      (4)   A description setting forth the name, age, address and experience
of the persons who are to do the actual firing and discharging of the
fireworks;
      (5)   The number and kinds of fireworks to be discharged;
      (6)   The manner and place of the storage of such fireworks between the
date of purchase and the date of display;
      (7)   A diagram or sketch of the grounds on which the fireworks are to be
discharged, the location of all buildings, streets, trees, telephone or
telegraph lines or overhead obstructions within a distance of 50 yards of the
point of discharge, and the lines behind which the public will be restrained;
and
      (8)   The liability insurance policy in an amount determined by the
corporate authorities holding the city harmless.
(Prior Code, § 27-10-6)
§ 95.21 PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS; PERMIT APPLICATION FILING.
   An application for a permit for a public exhibition or display of fireworks
shall be filed with the City Clerk at least 20 days before the date set for the
display. A copy of such application shall be sent at once to the Chief of
Police, who shall make or cause to be made, an investigation of the site of the
proposed display and investigate the competence and skill of the persons in
charge of the firing and discharge of the fireworks. If satisfied that the
display will be conducted lawfully and in accordance with this subchapter, he
or she shall so advise the City Clerk within ten days, at which time, the City
Clerk shall issue the permit. The applicant for a permit shall, at the time of
filing application therefor, pay to the City Clerk a fee of $100, which sum
shall be refunded in the event the application for such permit is denied. Each
applicant shall also pay to the City Clerk a non-refundable investigation fee
of $30.
(Prior Code, § 27-10-7)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone in violation of §
95.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of violating city ordinance and subject
to punishment as described in §
93.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-33) (Ord. 05-560, passed 11-15-2005)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Declaration of policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state, as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the city to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or physical disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful,
standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the city, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in
the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply, lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE. Any difference expressed in any way toward a person or persons
in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or financing for housing
accommodation and/or real property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental,
lease or finance because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-2)
§ 96.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-
lessee, real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of
the financial institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing,
to discriminate against any person or persons because of his, her or their
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability
with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any
housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property of the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed or disability; and/or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-3)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $750.
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   This section shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the city
to specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-4)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS
      
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND JUNK DEALERS
      
114.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS
      
116.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
      
117.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
Section
Administration
   
110.01   Applications
   
110.02   Persons subject to license
   
110.03   Term and form of license
   
110.04   Investigations
   
110.05   Fees
   
110.06   Termination of licenses
   
110.07   Building and premises
   
110.08   Change of location
   
110.09   Location
Nuisances Prohibited
   
110.21   Generally
   
110.22   Unsafe or unhealthful business
   
110.23   Refuse disposal
Working Conditions
   
110.35   Health requirements
   
110.36   Sanitation
   
110.37   Heat required
   
110.38   Inspections
Suspension, Revocation of License or Permit
   
110.50   Nuisance
   
110.51   Hearing
   
110.52   Revocation
   
110.53   Hearing notice
   
110.54   Counsel
   
110.55   Withholding of city services
   
110.56   Operation without a license or permit
   
110.57   Application process
   
110.58   Appeal
   
110.59   License to be posted
ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this title shall
be made in writing to the City Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permit or license desired;
      (3)   The location to be used, if any;
      (4)   The time covered; and
      (5)   The fee to be paid.
   (C)   Each application shall also contain the number the certificates of
registration required under the Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act being 35 ILCS
120/1 et seq., Service Occupation Tax Act being 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq. and/or
Use Tax Act being 35 ILCS 110/1 et seq., if applicable. Each application shall
contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
the municipal officials in the issuing of the license or permit applied for.
   (D)   All applications must be complete and a business license or permit
must be issued prior to any business being conducted. An entity who conducts
business prior to completion of the application and issuance of the license or
permit is in violation of this code of ordinances and the city may take
appropriate measures to correct the violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 110.02 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever a license or permit is required in this title or in any municipal
ordinance for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the requirement if by
himself, herself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he, she
or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity or occupation,
or if he, she or it solicits patronage therefor actively or passively; or if
he, she or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such business,
activity or occupation in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 110.03 TERM AND FORM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be granted in perpetuity. An application shall be
submitted by the business owner. Upon approval of the application, the license
shall last in perpetuity, as long as all terms of this code of ordinances are
followed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 110.04 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Clerk, within 48 hours, shall refer
the application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such
investigation or inspection.
   (B)   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving such
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an inspection
regarding such permits and licenses as relate to the care and handling of food,
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, and the protection of
health. (If a Zoning Code is in effect, the Zoning Administrator shall make or
cause to be made any inspections which relate to compliance with the Zoning
Code and other related regulations.) All other investigations, except where
otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other
officer designated by the Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Clerk shall
forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
Clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified
necessary and appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor.
Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that
his or her application is disapproved and that no license or permit will be
issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, he or she shall approve
the application. Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the
applicant that his or her application is approved and the license or permit may
be issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 110.05 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate authorities.
When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until after the
expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall be prorated by
quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof during which the
business or activity has been or will be conducted. Except as otherwise
provided, all license and permit fees shall become a part of the general fund.
In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license or permit fee, or
part thereof, by reason of death or departure of the licensee or permittee; nor
shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of non-use of the license or
discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed establishment,
business or activity.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 110.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A license, once issued, shall terminate if any violations of this
title are committed by the applicant or its employees.
   (B)   In addition, if the ownership of the business changes in any manner,
the license terminates and a new application must be filed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 110.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the municipality and the state. No such license or permit shall
be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of the Zoning Code and/or other applicable regulations of
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 110.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act may be changed, provided that ten days’ notice thereof is given
to the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided
further, however, that, all applicable ordinances and regulations of the
municipality shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 110.09 LOCATION.
   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in the
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in the municipality; a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For
the purpose of this title, the existence of a single location shall be
evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory
uses shall be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel; shall be
operated and managed by the same person or owner; and shall be an establishment
with the same classification.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9)
NUISANCES PROHIBITED
§ 110.21 GENERALLY.
   No business or establishment, whether licensed or not, shall be so conducted
or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no building, vehicle or
structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof shall be used, kept, maintained
or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as to occasion
any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to health. (Note:
the county’s Health Department should be consulted.)
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22 UNSAFE OR UNHEALTHFUL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No building or structure utilized, constructed or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe
or dangerous condition.
   (B)   No substance, matter or thing of any kind whatsoever, which would be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this code
of ordinances shall be a receptacle of not less than 20, nor more than 32,
gallons’ capacity, constructed of impervious material and sturdy construction
with a tight-fitting cover and equipped with handles properly placed to
facilitate handling.
   (B)   Duty to provide refuse containers.
      (1)   The occupant of every building, structure or premises used or
maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse containers
for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between collections.
      (2)   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any
building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers.
   (C)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
   (D)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owning or controlling any
hotel, restaurant, café or retail food establishment where more than 32 gallons
of refuse, is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be placed in
sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited in such
containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be disposed of
at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
WORKING CONDITIONS
§ 110.35 HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   No owner, lessee, manager or superintendent of any store, factory, workshop
or other place where persons are employed shall cause or permit such place or
any room or part thereof to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty in respect
to light, ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.36 SANITATION.
   All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean condition, free from
effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable or other nuisance(s); also, as far as
practicable, such premises shall be free from all gases, vapors, dust or other
impurities generated by manufacturing processes or otherwise which are
injurious to health. Sufficient washroom facilities for male and female
employees shall be provided and such facilities shall be properly ventilated.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.37 HEAT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the heating
plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop to maintain a temperature
within such factory or workshop of not less than 62°F without such undue
restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions
therein; provided, however, that, this requirement shall not apply to any
factory or workshop where the business conducted therein is of such a nature
that a higher or lower temperature than 62°F is necessary or expedient for the
work or manufacturing processes of such business.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the heating
plant which furnishes heat to any office, store or other place of employment to
maintain a temperature therein of not less than 62°F, without such undue
restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions
therein between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from October 1 of each
year until June 1 of the succeeding year (Sundays and legal holidays excepted).
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.38 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the Zoning Administrator, if any, shall visit
or cause to be visited all places of employment in the municipality as often as
they shall deem necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this
section, and to have such arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the
health and safety of the employees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the
provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the municipality, or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in
charge of the premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the
inspection, any officer or employee of the municipality who is duly authorized
to make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested.
      (2)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the municipality requesting the same,
sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon
official request.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor
may revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in the
municipality who refuses inspection or to take adequate sample(s) of said
commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his or her duties; provided, however, that, no license shall be
subject to revocation for such cause unless such officer or employee has been
refused permission to enter upon the premises in the name of the municipality
after having first presented a warrant authorizing such entry.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12)
SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT
§ 110.50 NUISANCE.
   When the conduct or operation of any business or establishment, whether or
not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present
danger to the public health, safety or general welfare, the Mayor shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises and the suspension of any license or permit for a period not to exceed
ten days.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.51 HEARING.
   Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Mayor shall call a
hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license or permit
should be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.52 REVOCATION.
   Licenses and permits issued in the municipality, unless otherwise provided,
may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing as provided in §§
110.53 and
110.54 of this chapter for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
   (B)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of code provisions relating
to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit or the
premises occupied;
 
   (C)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
   (D)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty owed
to the municipality; and/or
   (E)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference with
a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her duties
in making such inspections, as provided in §
110.51 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.53 HEARING NOTICE.
   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be given
in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the licensee or permittee at his or her last known
address at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.54 COUNSEL.
   At the hearing, the attorney for the municipality shall present the
complaint and shall represent the municipality. The licensee or permittee shall
be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-
examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.55 WITHHOLDING OF CITY SERVICES.
   The city will not provide water, sewer or any other services to businesses
which have not properly registered with the city. Services will not be provided
until the Chief of Police confirms that an application has been properly
completed. In addition, the city will terminate city services to all business
whose license or permit is suspended or revoked upon notice from the Chief of
Police that the business license or permit has been revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.56 OPERATION WITHOUT A LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The city shall file a suit in the Circuit Court of the state asking for an
injunction to restrain the operators of an unlicensed business from continuing
to operate the business until such license or permit is lawfully applied for
and issued. Prior to filing suit, the city will give the business operating
without a license written notice of the violation and allow for five business
days to complete the application process. If the application is not completed
and business license obtained within five business days from the receipt of the
notice, the suit shall be filed for injunction.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.57 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   It is the responsibility of the applicant to complete the application and
attach all required documentation. It is not the responsibility of the City
Clerk, City Treasurer or Chief of Police to obtain the information missing from
an application. Applications may be denied for incompleteness.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 110.58 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor regarding the denial of an
application for a business license as provided in §
110.04 of this chapter or in connection with the revocation of a license or
permit as provided in §
110.38(B) of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the municipality.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Clerk, within ten days after
notice of a denial of an application or a revocation of a license or permit, a
written statement under oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal.
The municipality shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee
or permittee in the same manner as provided in §
110.38(B) of this chapter. The decision of the municipality on such appeal
shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 110.59 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in the
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Salary of Liquor Commissioner; reimbursement for expenses
Licensing
   
111.015   License required
   
111.016   Applications
   
111.017   Examination of applicant
   
111.018   Prohibited licensees
   
111.019   Term; fee submitted in advance
   
111.020   Classification; fee; limitation
   
111.021   Nature of license
   
111.022   Limitation of licenses
   
111.023   Dram shop insurance
   
111.024   Display of license
   
111.025   Record of licenses
Regulations
   
111.040   Hours
   
111.041   Prohibited locations
   
111.042   Change of location
   
111.043   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
111.044   Transporting and the like in motor vehicles
   
111.045   Liquor in vehicles; underage
   
111.046   Restricted residential areas
   
111.047   Election days
   
111.048   Unlawful entertainment
   
111.049   Peddling
   
111.050   Inspections
   
111.051   Books and records
   
111.052   Restrictions on licensee
Happy Hour Restrictions
   
111.065   Price schedule
   
111.066   Sale restrictions
   
111.067   Exceptions
   
111.068   License revocation
Consumption
   
111.080   Open liquor, to-go cups prohibited
   
111.081   Unlawful acts of alcohol consumption
   
111.082   Video gaming devices in convenience stores
   
111.083   Disorderly house
Sanitary Conditions
   
111.095   Generally
   
111.096   Diseased employees
   
111.097   Health permit
Underage Drinking
   
111.110   Prohibited sales generally
   
111.111   Persons selling liquor
   
111.112   Underage; entry on licensed premises
   
111.113   Unlawful purchase of liquor
   
111.114   Posting warning
   
111.115   Exclusionary provision
   
111.116   Underage drinking on streets
   
111.117   Residential drinking
   
111.118   Renting hotel rooms for drinking
Identification
   
111.130   Identification required
   
111.131   Transfer of identification card
   
111.132   Selling false identification
   
111.133   False identification
Violations
   
111.145   Owner of premises permitting violation
   
111.146   Acts of agent or employee; liability; knowledge
   
111.147   Misbranding
   
111.148   Abatement of place used in violation
   
111.149   Use of premises for one year after revocation
   
111.150   Complaint by residents
   
111.151   Subsequent violations in a year
License Suspension and Revocation
   
111.165   Revocation after conviction
   
111.166   Revocation when employee convicted
   
111.167   Revocation generally
   
111.168   Notice and hearing
   
111.169   Appeals from order of Liquor Commissioner
   
111.170   Appeal limitations for subsequent violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. This includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer,
and capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of
alcohol by volume.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.05)
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.04)
   CATERER RETAILER. A person who serves alcoholic liquors for consumption,
either on-site or off-site, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as
an incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are
sold at a package price agreed upon under contract.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.34)
   CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person; and the
entire suspension of business.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members, through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided that, such CLUB files with the Mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of names and
residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of the election
of any additional member, his or her name and address; and, provided further
that, its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting and that no member or officer, agent or employee of the CLUB is paid,
or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or
its members or guests introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at the annual meeting by the members or by the board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.24)
   CORPORATION. Any corporation, domestic or foreign, qualified to do business
in the state under the Business Corporation Act of the state, being 85 ILCS 5/
1.01 et seq.
(Rules 100.10)
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. See SPIRITS.
   EVENT. A single theme.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith, and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen or dining room
equipment and capacity.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.25)
   MANAGER or AGENT. Any individual employed by any licensed place of business;
provided, said individual possess the same qualifications required of the
licensee. Satisfactory evidence of such employment will be furnished the
Commission in the form and manner as such Commission shall from time to time
prescribe.
(Rule 100.10)
   MAYOR. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as provided in 235 ILCS,
entitled “Dramshop”, and all references to Liquor Commissioner shall refer to
the Mayor unless otherwise provided.
   MEAL. Food that is prepared and served on the licensed premises and excludes
the serving of snacks.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.06)
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
   PARTNER.
      (1)   Any individual who is a member of a co-partnership.
      (2)   CO-PARTNERSHIP means an association of two or more persons to carry
on as co-owners of a business for profit.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
   PREMISES/PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place or location where alcoholic beverages
are manufactured, stored, displayed, offered for sale or where drinks
containing alcoholic beverages are mixed, concocted and served for consumption.
Not included are sidewalks, street, parking areas and grounds adjacent to any
such place or location.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
   PRIVATE FUNCTION. A prearranged private party, function or event for a
specific social or business occasion, either by invitation or reservation and
not open to the general public, where the guests in attendance are served in a
room or rooms designated and used exclusively for the private party, function
or event.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or partly enclosed and
partly unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels or merchandise are
offered for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club
room or meeting place. The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC PREMISES shall be
interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENT. Any person (other than a corporation) who has resided and
maintained a bona fide residence in the state for at least one year and in the
city, village and county in which the premises covered by the license are
located for at least 90 days prior to making application for such license.
(Rule 100.10)
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.23)
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17)
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
(235 ILCS 1-3.21)
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE OF RETAIL. Any mean sales for use or consumption and
not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.18)
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or non-profit organization.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.30)
   SPECIAL EVENTS RETAILER. An educational, fraternal, political, civic,
religious or non-profit organization which sells or offers for sale beer or
wine, or both, only for consumption at the location and on the dates designated
by a special event retail license.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1)
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.02)
   TO SELL. This includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.22)
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, vegetables, or honey, containing sugar, including mead and
such beverages when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above
defined.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.03)
(Prior Code, § 21-1-1)
Editor’s note:
   All references to rules refer to the state’s Liquor Control Commission Rules
located in Ill.
    Admin. Code Title 11, Subt. A, Ch. 1, part 1, §§ 100.5 et seq.
§ 111.002 SALARY OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER; REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   Effective 5-1-1997, the salary of the Liquor Commissioner shall be $300 per
year. The Liquor Commissioner is also entitled to reimbursement for any
reasonable actual expenses incurred by him or her in the performance of his or
her duties. The Liquor Commissioner shall be entitled to reimbursement in the
amount of $25 for each hearing pursuant to §
111.017 of this chapter on application for a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-12) (Ord. 96-483, passed 3-12-1996)
LICENSING
§ 111.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any
place for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and
territory of the municipality without having a license to do so, issued by the
Mayor of the municipality in the manner hereinafter provided, and a valid
license for such purpose issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commissioner of
the state.
   (B)   A similar valid license issued by the Mayor of the municipality is
hereby required for and with respect to each building, location and premises,
within the aforesaid territory of the municipality, at or upon which alcoholic
liquor is to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.016 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals,
firms and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of this municipality
upon the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the act
of the General Assembly of the state, and not otherwise. Such license shall be
in writing, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Municipal Clerk, with the
seal of his or her office affixed thereto.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a license, the applicant must submit to the Mayor
an application in triplicate, in writing and under oath, stating the following:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers, directors and the name of the person who will be
managing the establishment for which the license is sought, and if a majority
in interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or
her nominee, the address and name of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant and, in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character or in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has made similar application for a similar
other license on premises other than described in the application and the
disposition of such application;
      (7)   The applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly or in this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state, or
subdivision thereof, or by the federal government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor; and
      (9)   He or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of the
United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   (C)   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner and,
with respect to a corporation, the information and statements required by this
section shall be furnished as to the president of the corporation, the
secretary of the corporation, the directors of the corporation and with respect
to the person who is to manage the establishment for which a license is sought.
   (D)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least one member of such partnership, firm, association or club, or by the
president and secretary of such corporation.
   (E)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Mayor, one copy
given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall endorse on the copies
his or her approval or disapproval of the application and may make further
comments regarding that application. The copies shall be returned to the Mayor
and the endorsement and comment of the Chief of Police shall be considered by
him or her as an aid in deciding whether the license should be issued or
refused.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-1
§ 111.017 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Mayor shall have the right to examine or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant for a local license or for renewal thereof, or any licensee
upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served in the manner
hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to be examined, the books and
records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for
his or her information in the performance of his or her duties, and for such
purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Mayor under
this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her
behalf.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-5
§ 111.018 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No retail license shall be issued by the Mayor to the following:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the municipality;
   (B)   A person who is not 21 years of age;
    (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law if the Mayor determines, after investigation, that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
   (F)   A person whose license has previously been revoked for cause;
   (G)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal for any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon first
application;
   (H)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason;
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of such corporation, would not
be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than the
requirement for citizenship and residence;
   (J)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of
1983, being 85 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq. to transact business in Illinois;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (L)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor license;
   (M)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (N)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this code or has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (O)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not rent nor have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   (P)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman or member of a city council or
commission, any president of a village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; except that, license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises which are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the state’s Liquor Control Commission and the Mayor;
   (Q)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (R)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of § 28-1.1 of, or as prescribed by,
§ 28-3 of the Criminal Code of 1961 being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., approved 7-
28-1961, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (S)   A person to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period; except those persons who are
eligible to receive a license under the Raffles Act, being 230 ILCS 20/1 et
seq. or the state’s Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, being 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.;
   (T)   A co-partnership to which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government for the current tax period, or if any of the partners
have been issued a federal gaming device stamp or federal wagering stamp by the
federal government for the current tax period;
   (U)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal wagering stamp for the current tax
period; and
   (V)   Any premises for which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
Federal Government for the current tax period.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-2
§ 111.019 TERM; FEE SUBMITTED IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
12-month period upon the payment of the license fee as hereinafter set forth
unless sooner revoked or suspended. The 12-month period shall be from May 1 to
April 30 of the following year.
   (B)   The license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a
license at the time the application for a license is submitted to the Mayor, as
hereinbefore provided. A licensee may make arrangements to pay the liquor
license fees quarterly. In the event the license is denied, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited in the General
Fund. The application for a license shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (C)   One liquor license shall be issued per year and businesses will
purchase a sticker quarterly to place on the license. The stickers will be of
different color and font for different quarters.
   (D)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
   (E)   With respect to a corporation operating an establishment for which a
liquor license has been issued, should the manager of said establishment change
after the license has been issued, the corporation must submit the new
manager’s name and shall be submitted within 30 days. Continuation of the
license will be contingent upon a background check of the new manager as set
out in this chapter, and all fees shall be waived should the license be changed
only as a result of a change of managers. If, for some reason, the manager is
not acceptable, the licensee shall have 30 days to submit a new name before
revocation. Failure to provide new information shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of said license.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-5) (Ord. 03-535, passed 12-9-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.020 CLASSIFICATION; FEE; LIMITATION.
   Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the city
shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses shall be divided into the
following five classes.
   (A)   Class A retail license. This shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor on the premises specified for consumption on the premises, as
well as other retail sales of such liquor. The annual fee for such license
shall be $800; provided, however, a fee of $450 shall be added for a Sunday
license. There shall be a limit of 12 Class A licenses issued.
   (B)   Class B liquor store license. This shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in sealed packages, but not for consumption on the premises.
The annual license fee for such a license shall be $550; provided, however, a
fee of $450 shall be added for a Sunday license.
   (C)   Class C clubs. Class C licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor by clubs for consumption on the premises where sold and shall be issued
only to those not-for-profit organizations which qualify under the term “club”,
as defined in this chapter. The annual license fee shall be $300 per club;
provided, however, a fee of $450 shall be added for a Sunday license.
   (D)   Class D winemaker and winery license. This license is to be issued to
wineries and winemakers to conduct any business authorized by the state’s
Liquor Control Act being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., which includes, but is not
limited to, manufacture, importation in bulk, storage, distribution and sale of
wine. The annual license fee shall be $1,000.
   (E)   Class E licenses; one-day. Upon application, the Liquor Commissioner
is authorized to issue a Class E license to any licensee and any civic or
religious organization which keeps or desires to keep any place selling or
offering for sale, or in any manner dealing in any alcoholic liquors. The fee
for such license shall be for the sale of alcoholic liquors, the sum of $100
for a period of one day. The hours shall be established by the City Council if
they are different than §
111.040 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-6) (Ord. 02-519, passed 3-12-2002; Ord. 03-535, passed 12-
9-2003; Ord. 21-644, passed 2-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.021 NATURE OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege,
good for not to exceed one year after issued unless sooner revoked as in this
chapter authorized and provided, and shall not constitute property nor shall it
be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution; nor shall it be alienable
or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered
or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee;
provided that, executors and administrators of any estate of the deceased
licensee and the trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of the court having jurisdiction of
such estate and may exercise the privileges of such deceased, insolvent or
bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six months
after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-1 and Attorney General’s Report No.
703, passed 1-8-1948
§ 111.022 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Annexing license holders.
      (1)   The restrictions contained in this chapter shall in no way affect
taverns and other business(es) holding retail liquor licenses, duly licensed by
the county, which are located in the territory annexed to the municipality.
      (2)   Licenses may be issued to them or renewed by the duly constituted
authorities upon annexation; provided, that, thereafter, all of the
restrictions and contingencies contained herein shall apply.
   (B)   Destroyed or damaged business.
      (1)   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of fees
by any person, firm or corporation for a period longer than 90 days without a
tavern or liquor business for the same being in complete and full operation,
except for Class E license holders, who may garner a license in anticipation of
future, imminent wine production.
      (2)   However, if a tavern or liquor business has been destroyed or
damaged by fire or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or repaired within the 90-
day period, then, in that event, the Mayor shall extend the period of time for
which a liquor license may be held by the mere payment of fees without the
tavern or liquor business being in full and complete operation for an
additional 90 days.
   (C)   Requirements. If either of the above stated periods of time passes
without the particular tavern or liquor business returning to complete and full
operation, the license for that particular business shall expire and not be
subject to renewal, unless all other requirements of this chapter shall have
been met. (Prior Code, § 21-2-8) (Ord. 02-520, passed 3-12-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.023 DRAMSHOP INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with
the application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, certifying that the applicant has the following minimum
coverages:
   (A)   Bodily injury liability: $45,000 each occurrence;
   (B)   Property damage: $45,000 each occurrence;
   (C)   Means of support or loss of society: $55,000 each occurrence; and
   (D)   Combined single limit: in lieu of individual insurance coverage listed
in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above, the applicant may provide a combined
single limit policy in the amount of $300,000.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/1-3.17-1 and 235 ILCS 5/5-1(e)
§ 111.024 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-24
§ 111.025 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her
and shall supply the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police a copy of the same.
Upon issuance or revocation of a license, the Mayor shall give written notice
to these same officers within 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
REGULATIONS
§ 111.040 HOURS.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, any
alcoholic liquor in the city between the following hours.
Day From To
Day       From      To
Sunday    2:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m.
Monday    1:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m.
Tuesday   1:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m.
Wednesday 1:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m.
Thursday  1:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m.
Friday    1:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m.
Saturday  2:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   On New Year’s Eve (except on Sundays), Class A and Class C licenses
may be open from 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. of the following day with the
permission of the City Council.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the public
to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the
hours within which the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited.
   (D)   Any holder of a retail liquor license or his or her agent or employee
who violated the provisions of this chapter in regulating the legal hours of
operation shall, upon conviction, be fined according to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold and all licensed premises must
remain closed at all other times other than those specified above.
   (F)   The times referred to above shall refer to Daylight Saving Time or
when the same is in effect in the city and, upon cessation of Daylight Saving
Time, shall be Central Standard Time.
   (G)   All patrons or customers shall leave the premises at the specified
closing time and shall not remain on the premises thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-1) (Ord. 352, passed 10-16-1973; Ord. 317, passed 2-21-
1984; Ord. 03-534, passed 9-16-2003; Ord. 23-660, passed 7-25-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.041 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at
retail within 100 feet of any church, school (other than an institution of
higher learning), hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons or for
veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station; provided
that, this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where
the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on if such
place of business so exempted shall have been established for such purposes
prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on the premises within 100 feet of any
church or school where such church or school has been established within such
100 feet since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church,
the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building
used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-11
§ 111.042 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only on the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
Mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law
of the state and the code of this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-14
§ 111.043 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-12
§ 111.044 TRANSPORTING AND THE LIKE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall, within the municipality, transport, carry, possess or have
any alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.045 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; UNDERAGE.
   The presence in a vehicle other than a public vehicle of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of and is
being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time of which such
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
or
    (B)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-8)
§ 111.046 RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business within the
municipality in violation of the restrictions of
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.047 ELECTION DAYS.
   All such licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail, by the drink or in
the original package for consumption either on or off the premises licensed on
the day of any national, state, county or municipal election, including primary
elections during the hours the polls are open within the political area in
which such election is being held and on Sundays; subject to all the remaining
terms, conditions and opening hours and closing hours as set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-10)
§ 111.048 UNLAWFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No licensee or his or her agent, servant or employee shall permit or
allow any lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee and/
or employees (TOPLESS being defined as naked and substantially without clothing
or covering of the body from the waist to the neckline and bottomless being
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist downward), or entertainment to be performed within the licensed
premises by an entertainer employed therein, or by any employee or guest.
   (B)   Nor shall any licensee or his or her agent, servant or employee permit
or allow any employee or guest or any other person whomever to solicit or
encourage the purchasing of any alcoholic liquor or beverage of any
description, or the giving of any gratuity or gift by any patron or guest to or
for the benefit of such employee or guest.
   (C)   The following kinds of conduct on premises in the municipality
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts;
      (2)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing or fondling
of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva or anus; and/or
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which are prohibited by the regulations quoted above.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.049 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.050 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the Chief of
Police, any police officer or the Liquor Commissioner for the purpose of making
an inspection of such premises or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 111.051 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the Mayor having jurisdiction over the licensee. Such books and records need
not be maintained on the licensed premises, but must be maintained in the
state.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-10
§ 111.052 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEE.
   In addition to the restrictions on licensing, the holder of a license is
subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee to accept, receive or borrow money or
anything of value directly or indirectly from any manufacturer or distributor
of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall deny
or permit his or her agents or employees to deny any person the full and equal
enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of any
premises in which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject only to
the conditions and limitations established by law and applicable alike to all
citizens.
   (C)   No licensee shall sell liquor to any persons on credit or in payment
for services rendered but this does not apply to clubs and hotels and liquor
purchased for consumption off the premises.
   (D)   No licensee shall fill or refill in whole or in part any original
package of alcohol with the same or other liquor and no liquor shall be sold,
except in original packages.
   (E)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to or under the control of a municipality, except in connection with
the operation of an established food service facility or at a site specifically
provided for in the Act and where dram shop insurance coverage is provided.
   (F)   An established place of business is a prerequisite to the issuance of
a license. Revocation of a license when a licensee ceases to operate the
business before the license expires is within the authority of the Commissioner
on the grounds of non-use. (See Goode V. Thomas 31 Ill. App. 3d 674, 1975.)
   (G)   “Quiet hours” shall be from 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., Monday through
Saturday, and from 11:00 p.m. to 10:00 a.m. on Sunday. Premises/places of
business which are located in residential areas shall not emit noise that is
offensive or disturbing to any residential neighbors between the hours of 11:00
p.m. to 6:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and 11:00 p.m. to 10:00 a.m. on
Sunday. No premises/place of business with outdoor seating shall have amplified
music that is offensive or disturbing to any residential neighbors between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and 11:00 p.m. to
10:00 a.m. on Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-29) (Ord. 11-579A, passed 2-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-5, 235 ILCS 5/6-15, 235 ILCS 5/6-17 and
235 ILCS 5/6-22
HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS
§ 111.065 PRICE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged
for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the licensed
premises or in any room or part thereof.
   (B)   Whenever a hotel or multi-use establishment which holds a valid
retailer’s license operates on its premises more than one establishment at
which drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at retail, the hotel or multi-use
establishment shall maintain at each such establishment a separate schedule of
the prices charged for such drinks at the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-2)
§ 111.066 SALE RESTRICTIONS.
   No retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
   (A)   Serve two or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one person
for consumption by that one person, except conducting product sampling pursuant
to divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) below or selling or delivering wine by the
bottle or carafe.
      (1)   Retailer, distributor, importing distributor, manufacturer and non-
resident dealer licensees may conduct product sampling for consumption at a
licensed retail location. Up to three samples, consisting of no more than one-
fourth ounce of distilled spirits, one ounce of wine or two ounces of beer may
be served to a consumer in one day.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)(1) above, an on-
premises retail licensee may offer for sale and serve more than one drink per
person for sampling purposes without violating para. (1) of subs. (b) of § 6-28
or para. (6) of subs. (c) of § 6-28 of this Act, being the Liquor Control Act,
235 ILCS 5/6-28 et seq.; provided, the total quantity of the sampling package,
regardless of the number of containers in which the alcoholic liquor is being
served, does not exceed one ounce of distilled spirits, four ounces of wine or
16 ounces of beer. In any event, all provisions of this section shall apply to
an on-premises retail licensee that conducts product sampling.
   (B)   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
   (C)   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as authorized herein;
   (D)   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or the
size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
   (E)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
   (F)   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.067 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in §
111.066 of this chapter shall be construed to prohibit a licensee from:
   (A)   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
   (B)   Including drinks or alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
   (C)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
   (D)   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract between a
hotel or multi-use establishment and another group for the holding of any
function, meeting, convention or trade show;
   (E)   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
   (F)   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two or more persons at one time; or
   (G)   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in whole
or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment not
regularly scheduled.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-2)
§ 111.068 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   A violation of this subchapter shall be grounds for suspension or revocation
of the retailer’s license as provided by §§
111.145 through
111.151 and
111.165 through
111.170 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-28
CONSUMPTION
§ 111.080 OPEN LIQUOR, TO-GO CUPS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The licensee shall not knowingly permit any person to leave his or her
premises with open liquor or in a “cup-to-go”.
   (B)   Also, it shall be unlawful for any person to remove from the premises
of any liquor licensee any alcoholic beverage, except in the original container
and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-7) (Ord. 90-450, passed 2-13-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.081 UNLAWFUL ACTS OF ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the following
acts within the city, to-wit:
   (A)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way without special permission granted by the Mayor;
   (B)   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the Mayor;
   (C)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without permission
of an owner thereof;
   (D)   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place, including parks and recreation areas, in an intoxicated condition; and
   (E)   To consume or possess alcoholic liquor on the school grounds on the
Community Unit District #1 situated in the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-11) (Ord. 90-454, passed 7-10-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.082 VIDEO GAMING DEVICES IN CONVENIENCE STORES.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to those lawful places for use of video gaming
devices in and upon premises used or occupied as a place where alcoholic liquor
is sold or given away as provided in the Illinois Video Gaming Act, convenience
stores in the city holding a valid Class AC1 retail license, shall be a lawful
place for use of video gaming devices. This class of retail liquor licenses
shall be in addition to those classes provided for in §
111.020 of this chapter.
   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this Class AC1 retail license, a
CONVENIENCE STORE shall mean a small-size retail business and gas station
establishment that sells gasoline, fuel and petroleum products, and a limited
range and selection of household goods, grocery items, deli food, snack food,
confectionery, soft drinks and beverages, alcoholic liquor for consumption off
the premises, tobacco products, over-the-counter medications, health and beauty
aids, toiletries, newspapers, magazines, and other similar convenience items.
   (C)   Class AC1 retail license.
      (1)   This license shall permit convenience stores (as defined in
division (B) above) to sell alcoholic liquor at retail for consumption on the
licensed premises. This shall only be allowed in a separated designated room,
were video gaming terminals are located. This room shall allow customers to
scan a valid ID card to gain access. It will also be equipped with video
surveillance that can be viewed by the clerk on duty. The licensee must provide
a separate address for the gaming room (such as, “Suite A”) for the purpose of
this license, and register same with the United States Post Office located in
the city.
      (2)   Procedures must be in place and in accordance with the city and
Illinois Gaming Commission as to the consumption on premises of alcoholic
beverages as follows: alcohol can only be consumed in the gaming area at the
rate of one drink per hour. The customer shall make contact with the clerk who
must be 21 years of age to make the sale. The clerk will then deliver the
beverage, taken from a designated cooler to the gaming room and serve it
therein. Licensee must post signs that say, “no alcohol consumed outside of the
designated gaming room” and “no outside alcohol may be consumed in the
designated gaming room.”
   (D)   License fee. The annual license fee for such Class AC1 shall be $550;
provided however, a fee of $450 shall be added for a Sunday license.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-17) (Ord. 12-590, passed 6-12-2012; Ord. 20-639, passed 6-
11-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.083 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer or permit any
disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or
disorderly conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for
the sale of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
SANITARY CONDITIONS
§ 111.095 GENERALLY.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the condition of
the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.
§ 111.096 DISEASED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier
of any contagious disease, infectious or venereal disease.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier
of any such disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in
the handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 410 ILCS 650/10
§ 111.097 HEALTH PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid operating permit from the
county’s Health Department which regulates health standards.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-15)
UNDERAGE DRINKING
§ 111.110 PROHIBITED SALES GENERALLY.
   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person
known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane or mentally
ill. No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor shall
sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of
21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 111.111 PERSONS SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to attend any
bar or to sell, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.112 UNDERAGE; ENTRY ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to enter
upon premises where alcoholic liquors, spirits, beer or wine are sold by the
holder of a Class A license unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   No holder of a Class A license, nor any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall permit any person
under the age of 21 years not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to
enter the licensed premises.
   (C)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
holder of a Class A license, or his or her agent or employee, may refuse to
permit entry onto the licensed premises of any person under the age of 21 years
who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of the fact that the person
accompanying such person under the age of 21 years is that person’s parent or
legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.113 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF LIQUOR.
   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 111.114 POSTING WARNING.
   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be
displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be
supplied by the Municipal Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
 
UNDERAGE LIQUOR WARNING
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS MUNICIPALITY
IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
 
(Prior Code, § 21-3-25)
§ 111.115 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by an underaged person of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by an underaged person under the direct supervision and approval of
the parent or parents of such underaged person in the privacy of a home is not
prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 111.116 UNDERAGE DRINKING ON STREETS.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who has any alcoholic beverage in his
or her possession on any street or highway or in any public place, or in any
place open to the public, is guilty of violating this chapter. This section
does not apply to possession by a person under the age of 21 years making a
delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order of his or her
parent or in pursuance of his or her employment.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 111.117 RESIDENTIAL DRINKING.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter where he or
she knowingly permits a gathering at a residence, which he or she occupies, of
two or more persons where any one or more of the persons is under 21 years of
age and the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 21
is not otherwise permitted by this chapter; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 21 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section where the residence has an owner and
a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 111.118 RENTING HOTEL ROOMS FOR DRINKING.
   Any person who rents a hotel or motel room from the proprietor or agent
thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such room shall be used
for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of 21 years
shall be guilty of violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
IDENTIFICATION
§ 111.130 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (B)   Proof that the defendant/licensee or his or her employees or agent
demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 111.131 TRANSFER OF IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
      (2)   No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of 21
years is forbidden.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 111.132 SELLING FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age of 21
years any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of the
age and identity of such person or who sells, gives or furnishes to any person
under the age of 21 years evidence of age and identification of any other
person is guilty of violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 111.133 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who presents or offers to any licensee,
his or her agent or employee, any written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for
the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure, the serving of any alcoholic beverage, or
who has in his or her possession any false or fraudulent, written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
VIOLATIONS
§ 111.145 OWNER OF PREMISES PERMITTING VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other person shall
be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as said
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-2
§ 111.146 ACTS OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE; LIABILITY, KNOWLEDGE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or
her personally.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-3
§ 111.147 MISBRANDING.
   Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell or in any way dispose of any
alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or brand known to the
trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the package or
other containers of the alcoholic liquor, or who shall cause any such act to be
done, shall forfeit the alcoholic liquor and the packages and containers to the
state and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties provided for
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-6
§ 111.148 ABATEMENT OF PLACE USED IN VIOLATION.
   Every lot, parcel or tract of land, and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or place whatsoever, together
with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein
there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon
or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic
liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other
manner used in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of
the state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-7
§ 111.149 USE OF PREMISES FOR ONE YEAR AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
for the same premises for a period of one year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-13
§ 111.150 COMPLAINT BY RESIDENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to
file a complaint with the Liquor Commissioner, stating that a licensee under
this chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter or any
amendments hereto, or of any of the statutes of the state, enacted with
reference to the control of liquor.
      (2)   Such complaint shall be made in writing and shall be signed and
sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (B)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation
believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which such belief
is based. If the Liquor Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged, there is
reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for hearing,
and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing
and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-7
§ 111.151 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS IN A YEAR.
   In any case in which a licensee appeals to the State Commission a suspension
or revocation by a Local Liquor Control Commissioner that is the second or
subsequent such suspension or revocation placed on that licensee within the
preceding 12-month period, the licensee shall consider the suspension or
revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the Liquor Commissioner’s action
has been issued by the State Commission and shall cease all activity otherwise
authorized by the license. The State Commission shall expedite, to the greatest
extent possible, its consideration of any appeal that is an appeal of a second
or subsequent suspension or revocation within the past 12-month period.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION
§ 111.165 REVOCATION AFTER CONVICTION.
   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter,
the license of said licensee may, in the discretion of the Mayor, be revoked
and forfeited and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it shall
thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this chapter
for said licensee to continue to operate under such license.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-4
§ 111.166 REVOCATION OF LICENSE WHEN EMPLOYEE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any officer, director, manager or other employee in a position of
authority of any licensee under this chapter shall be convicted of any
violation of this chapter while engaged in the course of his or her employment
or while upon the premises described by the license, the license shall be
revoked and the fees paid thereon forfeited, both as to the holder of the
license and as to the premises, as if said licensee had himself or herself been
convicted.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-5
§ 111.167 REVOCATION GENERALLY.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses granted under this chapter:
   (A)   In addition to, and not limited by, the specific penalties set out for
violations of specific articles of this chapter, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for 30 days or revoke any liquor license issued under
this chapter for violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquors by any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee;
   (B)   To suspend or revoke any liquor license if the licensee makes any
false statement or misrepresentation in the application for a license;
   (C)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or her or
by the State Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to
examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
   (D)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act, being 805 ILCS 105/101.1 et seq. or a
foreign corporation functioning as a club in the state under a certificate of
authority issued under that Act has violated this chapter by selling or
offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license;
   (E)   To receive complaint from any citizen within his or her jurisdiction
that any of the provisions of this Act, or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints in the manner hereinafter provided; and
   (F)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall also have the power to
levy fines in accordance with §
111.168 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 111.168 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   The Liquor Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued by him or
her if he or she determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., any
valid ordinance adopted by the municipality, any applicable rule or regulation
established by the Liquor Commissioner or the State Commission which is not
inconsistent with law.
   (A)   Fine as opposed to suspension or revocation. In addition to the
suspension, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in any county or municipality
may levy a fine on the licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not
exceed $1,000 for a first violation within a 12-month period, $1,500 for a
second violation within a 12-month period, and $2,500 for a third or subsequent
violation within a 12-month period. Each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than $15,000 in fines under
this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of his or
her license. Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into the General Corporate
Fund of the municipal treasury.
   (B)   Notice. However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and
no licensee shall be fined, except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording
the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be
open to the public and the Liquor Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to
writing and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. If the Liquor
Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community he or
she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard
during that period; except that, if such licensee shall also be engaged in the
conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed premises such order
shall not be applicable to such other business or businesses.
   (C)   Hearing. The Liquor Commissioner shall, within five days after such
hearing, if he or she determines, after such hearing, that the license should
be revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such determination in
a written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a copy of such
order within the five days upon the license. The findings of the Commissioner
shall be predicted upon competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Pub. Act No. 89-0063 and 235 ILCS 5/7-5
§ 111.169 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, any order or action of a Local
Liquor Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a
licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license or refusing for more than 30 days to
grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may within 20
days after notice of such order or action by appealed by any resident of the
municipality under the jurisdiction of the Liquor Commissioner or any person
interested, to the State Commission.
   (B)   In any case where a licensee appeals to the State Commission from an
order or action of the Liquor Commissioner having the effect of suspending or
revoking a license, denying a renewal application, or refusing to grant a
license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the licensed business
pending the decision of the State Commission and the expiration of the time
allowed for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is
filed, the licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until
the denial of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the
decision on rehearing.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
§ 111.170 APPEAL LIMITATIONS FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION.
   Any appeal of the decision and findings of the Liquor Commissioner in §
111.151 of this chapter shall be limited to a review of the official record of
the proceedings of said Liquor Commissioner. The official record shall be a
“certified official record” of the proceedings taken and prepared by a
certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter. A copy of this record
shall be filed by the Liquor Commissioner within five days after notice of the
filing of such appeal is received by the municipality from State Commission.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
CHAPTER 112: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Business records
   
112.04   Liquor license
   
112.05   Video viewing booths; restrictions
   
112.06   Hours of operation
   
112.07   Investigation
Licensing
   
112.20   Required
   
112.21   Issuance
   
112.22   Liquor licenses
   
112.23   Fees
   
112.24   Inspection
   
112.25   Expiration
   
112.26   Suspension
   
112.27   Revocation
   
112.28   Transfer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult uses to protect the
community from the many types of criminal activity frequently associated with
such uses. The city recognizes that such regulation cannot effectively prohibit
such uses, but can balance the competing interest of the community in reducing
criminal activity and protecting property values versus the protected rights of
the owners, operators, employees and patrons of adult uses.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin-operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials, or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin
operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises or any
other factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which:
      (1)   Features topless dancers, strippers, “go-go” dancers, male or
female impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
      (2)   Not infrequently features entertainers who display specified
anatomical areas; or
      (3)   Features entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged
in, explicit simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
“novelties”, lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises or any other factors
showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such material.
   ADULT USE. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, adult clubs allowing nudity at regular or frequent
times, adult novelty stores and other similar uses.
   EMPLOYEE. Employees, independent contractors or any other person who is
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, female
breasts with less than a full opaque covering below a point immediately above
the top of the areola, human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even
if completely and opaquely covered or, that portion of the buttocks which would
be covered by a properly worn “thong” type bikini bottom.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. PUBLIC PLACES include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether for profit or not-for-profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement), hotels, motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country clubs, cabarets
and meeting facilities utilized by social, fraternal or similar organizations.
Premises used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in
nature, shall not be deemed a PUBLIC PLACE. PUBLIC PLACES shall not include
enclosed single sex public restrooms, enclosed single sex functional showers,
locker and/or dressing room facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms
designed and intended for sleeping accommodations, doctors offices, churches,
synagogues or similar places when used for circumcisions, baptisms or similar
religious ceremonies, portions of hospitals and similar places in which nudity
or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected outside of the home; nor
shall it include a person appearing in a state of nudity in a modeling class
operated by a proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or a private
college or university which maintains and operates educational programs in
which credits are transferable to a college, junior college or a university
supported entirely or partly by taxation or an accredited private college.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals;
         (b)   Pubic region;
         (c)   Buttocks; and
         (d)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      (3)   Any of the following offenses:
         (a)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; public indecency; indecency with a child; engaged in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction which is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement from the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurred within any 24-month
period.
         (c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 112.03 BUSINESS RECORDS.
   All adult uses shall file a verified report with the city showing the
licensee’s gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the preceding
calendar year. In addition, all adult uses shall maintain and retain for a
period of two years, the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed,
including independent contractors, by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-12)
§ 112.04 LIQUOR LICENSE.
   No adult use may be issued a liquor license; nor shall any establishment
with a liquor license operate as an adult use.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms used
for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall have
doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls or
partitioned portions or a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room. All such described areas shall be lighted
in such a manner that the persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures
or other forms of entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but
such lighting shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the view of the
motion pictures or other offered entertainment.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult use shall be open prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 2:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 INVESTIGATION.
   Any licensee hereunder shall permit law enforcement officials, free and
unlimited access to the premises during hours of operation, upon reasonable
request, for the purposes of investigating compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-17)
LICENSING
§ 112.20 REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult use without a
valid adult use business license issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as is needed to enable the city to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use is an individual, the
person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If the applicant
is a club, consisting of private or public membership, then such entity shall
also be licensed under this chapter. If a person who wishes to operate an adult
use is other than an individual or club, each individual who has a 20% or
greater interest in the business, including corporations, must sign the
application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under
the following section and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if the
license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for an adult use business license shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his
or her legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years
of age;
      (2)   If the applicant is a club, consisting of private or public
membership, a copy of the by-laws of the club must be submitted with the
application. In addition, a sworn statement as to the purposes, general
activities and requirement for club membership must be submitted;
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership shall state its
complete name and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general
or limited, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
      (4)   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall state its
complete name, the date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors and principal shareholders (those with a
20% or more stake) and the name and address of the registered corporate agent.
   (F)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use business under a
name other than that of the application, he or she must state:
      (1)   The business’ fictitious name;
      (2)   Submit any required registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal activity
involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or similar ordinances from another jurisdiction denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the business which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation. If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed
under this chapter or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction and a license
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, include the name and location
of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well
as the date of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or other similar ordinance from another jurisdiction and if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses; and
      (6)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business. This sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3)
§ 112.21 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed adult use business license
application, the city shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The city shall approve the issuance of a license unless it
determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any business;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (4)   The applicant has been denied a license by the city to operate an
adult use business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate
an adult use business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for adult use business has not been
inspected and approved by the Fire Department and the Building Department as
being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and
      (8)   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation or in
not in compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the adult use business. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any
time.
   (C)   The Fire Department and code enforcement officers shall complete their
inspection certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance with city codes within 20 days of receipt of the application by the
city.
   (D)   No adult use business license shall be issued unless it meets all
criteria set forth in the Zoning Code. However, an adult use business license
may be issued for a premises which is a legal non- conforming use, which has
not yet been amortized or for a premises where such amortization is being
challenged by litigation.
   (E)   No signs, advertising or other notice to the public may be given for
any premises where adult use is conducted, pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 112.22 LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   No liquor license shall be issued to a licensee or to premises where
adult use is conducted, nor shall liquor be sold, given away or allowed to be
consumed on the premises where any adult use is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-5)
   (B)   No adult use may be issued a liquor license; nor shall any
establishment with a liquor license operate as an adult use.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-13)
§ 112.23 FEES.
   Every application for an adult use business license (whether a new license
or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a $750 non-
refundable application and investigation fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6)
§ 112.24 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department, Building Department or other city or city-
designated departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult use for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of this chapter at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
 
   (B)   A person who operates an adult use or his or her agent or employee
violates this chapter is he or she refuses to permit such lawful inspection of
the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7)
§ 112.25 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Each license shall expire on the January 1 after it was issued and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.21 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days
before the expiration date and when made less than 30 days before the
expiration date, the expiration of license will not be affected.
   (B)   If the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-8)
§ 112.26 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The city may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if,
after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business premises
as authorized by this chapter; or
      (3)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult use
business premises.
   (B)   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty
in a court of law of a violation of this chapter, no hearing is necessary prior
to suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-9)
§ 112.27 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
112.25 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months or if the licensee is convicted of any specified criminal
activity.
   (B)   The city may revoke a license if it determines, after a hearing, that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of alcohol or controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee or management personnel knowingly operated the adult use
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due;
      (7)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly facilitated
another’s commission of the offense of public indecency; or
      (8)   The adult use is a public nuisance as defined by statute, ordinance
or case law.
   (C)   If the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult use business license for one
year from the date the revocation became effective. If subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the factual basis for the revocation did not
occur, the applicant may be granted a license.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-10)
§ 112.28 TRANSFER.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
license operate an adult use business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address on the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-11)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
Solicitors
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Certificate of registration
   
113.03   Application for certificate of registration
   
113.04   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
113.05   Policy on soliciting
   
113.06   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.07   Compliance by solicitors
   
113.08   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
113.09   Time limit on soliciting
   
113.10   Solicitations on public highways
   
113.11   Fees
Peddlers
   
113.25   License required
   
113.26   Definition
   
113.27   Applications
   
113.28   Investigation of applicants
   
113.29   Hours
   
113.30   Fraud
   
113.31   Photographs
   
113.32   Unwanted peddling
   
113.33   Peddlers as nuisance
   
113.34   Duty of police to abate
   
113.35   Local merchants and farmers excluded
   
113.36   Fees
Junk Dealers
   
113.50   Definitions
   
113.51   Physical requirements
   
113.52   License required
   
113.53   Application
   
113.54   Disqualification
   
113.55   License
   
113.56   License fee
   
113.57   Minors
SOLICITORS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation or project.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 113.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting, as herein defined, from
persons within the municipality is hereby required to make written application
for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. All resident
charitable, non-profit organizations in the municipality which have been in
existence for six months or longer shall be exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of the municipality and filed with such
Chief. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application, to-wit:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also, business address if other than residence
address; also, Social Security number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status and, if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
with whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of
such employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      (9)   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
a certificate under this subchapter, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this subchapter ever been revoked;
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances or the regulations of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States;
      (13)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application in the municipality and
the address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
      (14)   Also, such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this subchapter and of the denial
of applications.
   (D)   Applications for certificates issued shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   (E)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States within five years of the date
of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter, nor to any person whose certificate
of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked, as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this code of
ordinances. Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the
application of the denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be
fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this subchapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately
upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the Chief of
Police to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified, return
receipt requested, U.S. mail, addressed to his or her residence address set
forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the
certificate of registration shall become null and void.
   (C)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 113.05 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of the municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in the municipality shall make the determination of
whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 113.06 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions:
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner provided in division (B) below;
   (B)   A weather-proof card, approximately three inches by five inches in
size shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows: “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED” or “NO SOLICITORS
INVITED”;
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the same, at the cost thereof; and
   (D)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 113.07 COMPLIANCE BY SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
municipality upon which a residence, as herein defined, is located to first
examine the notice provided for in §
113.06 of this chapter if any is attached and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice.
   (B)   If the notice states “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein provided
for shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the
notice states, “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the solicitor, whether registered
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (C)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create
any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, as herein defined, in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located
thereon, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting, as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on any
day of the week, including Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state
or national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public
highways under the following terms and conditions.
   (B)   The charitable organization must:
      (1)   Be one that is registered with the Attorney General for the state
as a charitable organization as provided by An Act to Regulate Solicitation and
Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes, Providing for Violations Thereof,
and Making an Appropriation Therefor, approved 7-26-1963, being 225 ILCS 460/
1 et seq. as amended;
      (2)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions
is required to come to a full stop;
      (3)   Be engaged in a state-wide fund-raising activity;
      (4)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent;
      (5)   Any person so engaged in such solicitation shall be at least 16
years of age and shall wear a high visibility vest; and
      (6)   Solicit only during daylight hours.
   (C)   Any one charitable organization shall be limited to conducting no more
than two solicitations per calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1006
§ 113.11 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $25 per person per day; and
   (B)   Annual license: $100 per person per year.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
PEDDLERS
§ 113.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.26 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLE. The selling, bartering or exchanging or the offering for sale,
barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the streets,
highways, or public places of the municipality or from house-to-house, whether
at one place thereon or from place-to-place, from any wagon, truck, pushcart or
other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall not include
the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items along delivery
routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller to stop and
exhibit his or her items; nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the solicitation
of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered at the time the order is
taken.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 113.27 APPLICATIONS.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Clerk and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application to the municipality and the
address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 113.28 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and moral character of the
applicant.
   (B)   If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then it
shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 113.29 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to engage in peddling,
as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on any day of the
week, including Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national
holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.30 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler or hawker shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee
while acting as a peddler in the municipality, or shall barter, sell or peddle
any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.31 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of its employees as will be used
in the peddling or merchandising, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application, which pictures shall be two inches by two inches,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant or its agent(s) and/or employee
(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 113.32 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter, nor the issuance of any license
hereunder, shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon any private residence
for the purpose of peddling if such licensee, his or her agents or employees
are directed to depart from said private residence by the owner or person in
charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8)
§ 113.33 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the municipality by peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants and transient vendors of merchandise without having been requested or
invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said private
residences and business establishments or offices for the purpose of disposing
of and/or peddling or hawking of merchandise is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and is punishable as a violation of this subchapter. No person shall
peddle in a public square.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.34 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of the municipality is hereby required and directed to
suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
113.33 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 113.35 LOCAL MERCHANTS AND FARMERS EXCLUDED.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business, firm or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the municipality or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the municipality or anyone duly licensed.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 113.36 FEES.
   The license fees per person to be charged for licenses to peddle in the
municipality, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and established as
follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $25 per person per day; and
   (B)   Annual license: $100 per person per year.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
JUNK DEALERS
§ 113.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Scrap and old iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium, aluminum,
tin, lead or other base metals, scrap lumber, old rope, old bags, rags, waste
paper, paper clippings, scraps of woolens, clips, bagging, rubber and glass,
and empty bottles of different kinds or sizes when the number of each kind or
size is less than one gross, any wrecked or dilapidated motor vehicle, engine
or machinery received, stored or held for more than 90 days, and all articles
and things discarded or no longer used as a manufactured article composed of or
consisting of any one or more of the materials or articles herein mentioned.
   JUNK DEALER. Every person, firm, partnership or corporation that shall
engage in the business of buying, selling, bartering or exchanging, or shall
collect, receive, store or hold in possession for sale, barter or exchange, any
of the things in and by this section defined as “junk”.
   JUNK YARD. The premises on which a junk dealer is engaged in the business of
buying, selling, bartering, exchanging or collecting, receiving, storing or
holding in possession for sale, barter or exchange, any of the things in and by
this section defined as “junk”.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 113.51 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum physical requirements at all times for each junk yard shall be
as follows.
   (A)   The premises where the junk yard is located shall not have more than
two entrances thereto and two exits therefrom, each of which shall not exceed
15 feet in width at the perimeter of the premises.
   (B)   The premises where the junk yard is located shall be enclosed on its
perimeter with a solid, non-transparent, vertical wall or fence of a minimum
height of seven feet measured from ground level, excepting for the entrances
and exits permitted by division (A) above.
   (C)   The aforesaid solid, non-transparent wall or fence and the gates or
doors, if any, at the aforesaid entrances and exits shall not contain any sign,
poster or advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, excepting one sign of the
licensee thereon not exceeding 100 square feet in size.
   (D)   The public streets and alleys adjacent to the junk yard shall not have
junk thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.52 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, conduct or operate a
junk yard within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a
license to do so as herein provided. A separate license shall be secured for
each junk yard located on non-contiguous lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of
land.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.53 APPLICATION.
   Before any license under the provisions of this subchapter is issued, any
person desiring to operate a junk yard in the city shall first make a verified
application in writing to the Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary, stating thereon the full name of the applicant, his or her residence
address, the trade name of the applicant, the legal description of the premises
where the junk yard is to be located, the size and approximate location of each
entrance thereto and exit therefrom, whether or not the premises where the junk
yard is to be located is enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, non-
transparent wall or fence of a minimum height of seven feet, measured from
ground level, excepting the entrances and exits, and whether or not the public
streets and alleys adjacent to the premises where the junk yard is to be
located have junk thereon. If the applicant is a firm of partnership, the names
and residence addresses of all the partners and in the case of a corporation,
the names and residence addresses of the president and secretary shall be
stated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 113.54 DISQUALIFICATION.
   Any applicant for a license to keep, maintain, conduct or operate a junk
yard shall be disqualified for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Not a person of good character;
   (B)   Falsification of an application for a license hereunder;
   (C)   License for a junk yard theretofore issued to the applicant has been
revoked during the preceding 24 months; and/or
   (D)   Failure to meet any one of the minimum physical requirements for a
junk yard as specified in §
113.51 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 113.55 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any and all licenses issued hereunder shall state that such license is
issued in the name of the junk dealer solely for the purpose of keeping,
maintaining, conducting and operating a junk yard, the expiration date thereof,
the legal description of the premises where the junk yard is to be located,
that the license shall be used and the privileges thereof exercised only at the
described premises and that such license is non-assignable and non-
transferable.
   (B)   Such license shall further provide that it is issued subject to all
the provisions of this subchapter; that, upon the first conviction for a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, in addition to the fine,
such junk yard shall remain closed for a period of 30 days; that, upon the
second conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter,
such license shall become null and void, and the licensee shall forfeit all
sums paid for such license, and that the licensee, by the acceptance of such
license, expressly agrees to all the terms and conditions thereof, and to the
terms and provisions of this section and all amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
§ 113.56 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for each junk yard shall be $300 payable in advance
with the filing of the application for license, and shall not be subject to
prorata reduction for a portion of the year, either because of the application
for or because of revocation of a license; provided, however, that, only one
annual license fee shall be payable for licenses which may be issued whenever
the applicant desires to keep, maintain, conduct or operate junk yards on lots,
blocks, tracts or parcels of land which are situated on directly opposite sides
of and abut upon each side of a public street or alley. Where such place of
business is not located in the city, but the operator carries on the business
of buying or collecting or bartering for the items heretofore enumerated within
the city, the annual fee shall be $300 for each junk dealer. The fee is payable
as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7)
§ 113.57 MINORS.
   No licensee hereunder shall purchase or receive any article whatsoever from
any minor, without the written consent of his or her parents or guardians.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-3
CHAPTER 114: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Franchise agreement
§ 114.01 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   The provisions set out in the franchise agreement between the city and
Telecommunications Management LLC doing business as New Wave are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8) (Ord. 18-626, passed 6-14-2018; Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-
2021)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Raffles
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Administration
   
115.03   License required
   
115.04   Applications for license
   
115.05   Application; issuance
   
115.06   Prohibited licensees
   
115.07   Restrictions on the conduct of raffles
   
115.08   Records
   
115.09   Terms and fees
   
115.10   Limited construction
RAFFLES
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   RAFFLE.
      (1)   A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2, subpara. (b) of the
Criminal Code of 1961 being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., conducted by an
organization licensed under this subchapter in which:
         (a)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a
chance, presented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of
numbers, or by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be
designated the winning chance; and
         (b)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except that, the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
      (2)   The definitions contained in 230 ILCS 15/2 are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/1
§ 115.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Mayor is hereby charged with the administration of the appropriate
provisions of this subchapter and may appoint persons to assist in the exercise
of the powers and the performance of the duties herein provided, including, but
not limited to, the members of his or her staff, the City Attorney, the City
Clerk and the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/2
§ 115.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or organization shall conduct or partake in the selling of
raffle chances within the limits and territory of the city without having a
license to do so issued by the Mayor in a manner hereinafter provided and a
valid license for such purpose as provided by state statutes. Licenses shall be
issued only to bona fide religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational
or veterans’ organizations that operate without profit to their members and
which have been in existence continuously for a period of five years
immediately before making application for a license and which have had during
that entire five-year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out
their objectives or to a non-profit fund- raising organization that the
licensing authority determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability,
accident or disaster.
   (B)   The above mentioned types of organizations shall be defined pursuant
to state statutes and incorporated herein.
   (C)   No person or organization shall be issued more than one license in a
period of one week.
   (D)   The manager of a raffle game shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of
$1,000 in the performance of his or her duties. The Mayor or his or her
designated representative is authorized to waive requirement for bond by
including a waiver provision in the license issued; provided that, the license
containing such waiver provision shall be granted only by majority vote of the
members of the licensed organization. The terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not less than 30
days prior to its cancellation.
   (E)   Any license issued under this subchapter shall be non-transferable.
   (F)   The raffle license fee shall be $1.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/2
§ 115.04 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to eligible
organizations to conduct raffles and to participate in the sale of raffle
tickets within the limits and territory of the city upon the conditions and in
the manner provided by this subchapter and by the Act of the General Assembly
of the state, and not otherwise. Such license shall be in writing, signed by
the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk with the seal of his or her office
affixed thereto.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall submit to the
City Clerk an application, in triplicate, in writing and under oath stating the
following:
      (1)   The name and address of the organization;
      (2)   The type of organization that is conducting the raffle (i.e.,
religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, veterans or other);
      (3)   The length of time the organization has continually existed
immediately before making application for a license;
      (4)   The applicant shall give the aggregate retail value of all prizes
or merchandise awarded by a licensee in a single raffle;
      (5)   The applicant will give the maximum retail value of each prize
awarded by a licensee in a single raffle;
      (6)   The amount that the organization plans to charge for each raffle
chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The time and location where the raffle is to be held;
      (8)   The purpose for which the proceeds of the raffle will be used;
      (9)   The name and address of the person conducting and performing the
raffle, and his or her relationship with the organization;
      (10)   The last date which the applicant has applied for a raffle
license;
 
      (11)   The area in which the organization plans to sell or issue its
raffle chances; and
      (12)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 115.05 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   All licenses issued by the Mayor or City Clerk are subject to the following
restrictions.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances
without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   The license and application for a license shall specify the area or
areas within the licensing authority in which raffle chances will be sold or
issued, the time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the
time of determination in winning chances and the location or locations with
which winning chances will be determined.
   (C)   The application shall contain a sworn statement attesting to the not-
for-profit character of the prospective licensee organization signed by the
presiding officer and the secretary of that organization.
   (D)   The Mayor shall act upon a license application within 30 days from the
date of application.
   (E)   The application for license shall be prepared in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (F)   A license authorizes the licensee to conduct raffles, as defined in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/3
§ 115.06 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   The following are ineligible for any raffle license:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A),
(B) or (C) above has a propriety, equitable or credit interest, or in which
such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not; and
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as
defined by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/3
§ 115.07 RESTRICTIONS ON THE CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
 
   (B)   No person, except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine a winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which has also been licensed
under the Raffle Act, being 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
   (G)   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license issued by the governing body of any county or municipality under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/4
§ 115.08 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from the gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be
documented with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description
of the purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the
recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   (1)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts if bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the state
and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records
of its raffles.
      (2)   The person who accounts for the gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership and to the city its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds
from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required by this
section.
    (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and the organization shall make available their records relating to operation
of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/6
§ 115.09 TERMS AND FEES.
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $1,000,000.
   (B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $1,000,000.
   (C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $100.
   (D)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed 365 days.
   (E)   Licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for one
raffle or for a specified number of raffles to be concluded in a specified time
period not to exceed one year and may be suspended or revoked for any violation
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 18-623, passed 1-11-2018)
§ 115.10 LIMITED CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/2 and 230 ILCS 15/8.1
CHAPTER 116: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Sale of cigarettes or tobacco to minors
   
116.02   Smokeless tobacco
   
116.03   Possession of tobacco products by minors prohibited
§ 116.01 SALE OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under 18 years of age shall buy any cigar, cigarette,
smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms. No person shall sell, buy
for, distribute samples of or furnish any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco
or tobacco in any of its forms, to any minor under 18 years of age.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, SMOKELESS TOBACCO means any tobacco
products that are suitable for dipping or chewing.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 675/1
§ 116.02 SMOKELESS TOBACCO.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term SMOKELESS
TOBACCO means any finely cut, ground, powdered or leaf tobacco that is intended
to be placed in the oral cavity.
   (B)   Sales of smokeless tobacco products to persons under 18. No person
shall sell any smokeless tobacco product to any person under the age of 18.
   (C)   Distribution. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed to
any person under the age of 18, without charge or at a nominal cost, any
smokeless tobacco product.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 680/1 et seq.
§ 116.03 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
possess any tobacco products.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for a minor to possess any
tobacco product where:
      (1)   Such use takes place under the direct supervision of the parent,
parents or legal guardian of the minor; and
      (2)   Such use takes place in the privacy of a home or established place
of worship or tribal meeting place; provided, however, where such use takes
place in an established place of worship or tribal meeting place, such use
shall not be a violation only where use is in the performance of a religious
service or tribal ceremony and the religious group or tribe is legally
established and recognized by the state.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 117: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
117.01   Purpose and scope
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Dispute resolution
   
117.04   Indemnification
   
117.05   Insurance
Regulations
   
117.15   Permitted use
   
117.16   Permit required
   
117.17   Collocation requirements and conditions
   
117.18   Application fees
   
117.19   Exceptions to applicability
   
117.20   Pre-existing agreements
   
117.21   Annual recurring rate
   
117.22   Abandonment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or
Mechanical Codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such APPLICATION.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i
through Section VI.D.1.a.v. of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified
at 47 C.F.R. Part 1, Appendix C; or designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the
city pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and all other wireless
equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
equipment associated with wireless communications; and radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS
FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does not include
the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the equipment is
collocated; or wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.03 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of the county shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act.
Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.04 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.05 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section.
   (D)   A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
REGULATIONS
§ 117.15 PERMITTED USE.
   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and subject
to administrative review, except as provided in §
117.17(I) of this subchapter, but not subject to zoning review or approval if
they are collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning district, or outside rights-
of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the city to collocate a
small wireless facility. An application shall be received and processed, and
permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions and requirements.
   (A)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
      (1)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      (2)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility;
      (3)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989,
for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as it is
proposed to be installed;
      (4)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      (5)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      (6)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained in §
117.17 of this subchapter, to the best of the applicant’s knowledge; and
      (7)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
   (B)   Application process. The city shall process applications as follows.
      (1)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (2)   (a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
         (b)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
         (c)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
         (b)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
         (c)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
      (4)   (a)   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained in §
117.17 of this chapter require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
         (c)   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
         (d)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’s review period.
         (e)   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
         (f)   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
      (5)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a master pole attachment agreement, provided by the city for the
initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall enter into a license
supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
   (C)   Completeness of application.
      (1)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city’s permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
      (2)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
   (D)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
      (1)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city; or
      (2)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   (E)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities within
the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s discretion,
to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for the
collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
      (2)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and
treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
   (F)   Duration of permits.
      (1)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
      (2)   If § 90 of the Act is repealed, renewals of permits shall be
subject to the applicable city code provisions or regulations in effect at the
time of renewal.
   (G)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit initial
applications, supporting information to the city by personal delivery or
regular mail to City Hall, at 621 S. Main Street, Carrollton, IL 62016, or by
electronic mail (e-mail) to cityfinance13@gmail.com. Applications, supporting
information, or notices having a due date shall be delivered by either
certified mail return receipt requested and are considered delivered as of the
date of postmark, if actually received by the city, or by electronic mail to
cityfinance13@gmail.com and are considered delivered as of the date the e-mail
was sent, if the e-mail is actually received by the city.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.17 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
      (1)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency’s communications equipment.
      (3)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      (4)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through
90.675.
      (5)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based
on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the
Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(4) above. Failure to remedy
the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Utility poles.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission
system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric
supply zone of the pole.
      (2)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (D)(3), the terms “communications
space”, “communication worker safety zone”, and “electric supply zone” have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Applicable codes and provisions. The wireless provider shall comply
with all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern
public safety.
   (F)   Written design standards. The wireless provider shall comply with
written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility
poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are
set forth in a city ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a
comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers
of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic
district.
   (G)   Alternate placements.
      (1)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and conditions
section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small
wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles,
or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the city may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant.
      (2)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division (G)(2).
   (H)   Height limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated. New or
replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      (1)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole, other
than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place on
the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within 300
feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure and
that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
      (2)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
   (I)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions set
forth in §§
159.340 through
159.344 of this code of ordinances.
   (J)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (K)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances, now in
effect or as hereafter amended, concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way, and the applicant may apply for a
variance in conformance with the procedures, terms and conditions set forth in
§§
159.340 through
159.344 of this code of ordinances. Nothing contained herein or in this code of
ordinances shall prohibit granting of such variances.
   (L)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations, now in effect or as hereafter amended,
concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the installation of new or
the modification of existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior
approval, and the applicant may apply for a variance in conformance with the
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in §§
159.340 through
159.344 of this code of ordinances. Nothing contained herein or in this code of
ordinances shall prohibit granting of such variances.
   (M)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.18 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application to
collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with §
117.16(A)(4) of this subchapter; or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   (E)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work within
rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane
closures.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.19 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the city or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   (C)   (1)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the Public Utilities Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (C), “public utility” has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement to
obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service; or to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.20 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this division (B).
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.21 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate to
collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a right-
of-way that equals $200 per year; or the actual, direct and reasonable costs
related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city utility pole.
   (B)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 117.22 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility shall
remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the abandonment.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-627, passed 7-24-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
      
133.   OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Criminal Code adopted
   
130.03   Disturbing police officer
   
130.04   Impersonation of officer
   
130.05   Disturbing the peace
   
130.06   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
130.07   Admission fees; fraudulently avoiding payment
   
130.08   Unlawful conduct on a public way
   
130.09   Aid in escape
   
130.10   Escapes
   
130.11   False pretenses
   
130.12   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
130.13   Aid to an offense
   
130.14   Posting bills
   
130.15   Begging
   
130.16   Games in street
   
130.17   Depositing snow and ice restricted
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see 720 ILCS 2-1 et seq.
   Illinois Criminal Code adopted, see 720 ILCS
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the words and phrases of 720 ILCS 2-1 through
2-11, 2-13 through 2-16, 2-19 and 2-20, as approved, adopted and amended are
hereby adopted by the city, as fully as if set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS, as passed, approved and amended by the
state’s General Assembly is hereby adopted by the city; the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city; provided,
however, the penalties as provided by this code of ordinances shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2 and 5/11-1-1
§ 130.03 DISTURBING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall, by violent conduct, disturb any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties; nor shall any person assault, strike or fight
with any police officers in the discharge of his or her duties or permit such
conduct in or upon any house or premises in the city owned or possessed by him
or her or under his or her management and control. Abusive or vulgar language
in the presence of an officer does not constitute a crime unless the language
is directed at the officer and provokes a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
§ 130.04 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the city shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the city or shall, without being duly authorized by the city,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of the
city officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any city
officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace of any individual or private family, or of
any lawful congregation within the city by any noise or amusement, or by vulgar
or profane language, or by any disorderly or unreasonable conduct.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 130.06 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electrically-
charged fence or barbed wire or other such sharp, pointed fence below eight
feet in height, except in an Agricultural or Conservation Zone District.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 ADMISSION FEES; FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT ON A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line, if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue or shall abet or
encourage the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or
other person legally having him or her in charge, or shall molest or interfere
with any officer or other person so legally having him or her in charge, or
shall, in any manner, aid, abet or encourage the rescue or the attempt to
escape from any person legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt to
supply any such person with any weapon or with any implement or means whereby
an escape might be affected, or with any intoxicating liquors, drugs or other
article(s) without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-7
§ 130.10 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-6(C)
§ 130.11 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses or to enter public places and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or to
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares and/or merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.12 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him or her, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.13 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.14 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door or gate; provided,
however, that, this section shall not prevent posting by proper city and county
officials of election signs, polling place signs and other signs or placards
necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except they may not be
attached to a tree.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.15 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the city without having obtained
permission in writing from the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-4
§ 130.16 GAMES IN STREET.
   No person shall, upon any city street, fly any kite or play any game of ball
or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or annoy any
person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 DEPOSITING SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and ice on or
against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, roadway or loading or unloading
areas of a public transportation system; except that, snow and ice may be
windrowed on curbs incident to the cleaning of sidewalks in business districts.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Damage to Property Generally
   
131.01   Throwing rocks
   
131.02   Destruction of public property
   
131.03   Throwing objects from motor vehicles
   
131.04   Petty theft
   
131.05   Criminal damage to property
   
131.06   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
   
131.07   Injury to utility wires and poles
   
131.08   Damage or destruction of street signs prohibited
   
131.09   Tampering with public notice
   
131.10   Climbing utility poles
   
131.11   Throwing junk on private property
Litter Control
   
131.25   Definitions
   
131.26   Littering prohibited
   
131.27   Prevention of scattering
   
131.28   Receptacles; upsetting or tampering
   
131.29   Sidewalks and alleys free from litter
   
131.30   Owner to maintain private premises
   
131.31   Littering from vehicles
   
131.32   Littering from aircraft
   
131.33   Litter in parks
   
131.34   Handbills
   
131.35   Posting notices prohibited
   
131.36   Construction sites
   
131.37   Loading and unloading docks
   
131.38   Parking lots
   
131.39   Clearing of litter from open private property by the city
   
131.40   Abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes
   
131.41   Theft of recyclables unlawful
   
131.42   Recycling bins
Trespassing
   
131.55   Trespasses prohibited
   
131.56   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression
DAMAGE TO PROPERTY GENERALLY
§ 131.01 THROWING ROCKS.
   No person in the city shall throw or cast any rock or stone or any other
missile upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley or public place.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person in the city shall deface, destroy or in any way, injure any public
property or any other apparatus of the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 THROWING OBJECTS FROM MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the police powers in 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, it shall be
unlawful for any person occupying or driving a motor vehicle, whether moving or
not, to shoot, throw, cast, launch or drop any object, liquid or substance at
any person, animal or structure, wherein the possibility of harm, injury or
damage may occur as a result of these actions.
   (B)   The driver and/or all passengers shall be, upon conviction, fined in
accordance with the provisions of the city code and shall be liable for all
damage, injury or harm caused by the activity.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 PETTY THEFT.
   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under $300
and he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner;
   (C)   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner;
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or
her to believe that the property was stolen; and
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; and/or
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-1
§ 131.05 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this code:
   (A)   To knowingly damage any property of another without his or her
consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby, intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with
or destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private firefighting equipment or any apparatus appertaining to
such equipment, or to intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper
authorization.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 INJURY TO UTILITY WIRES AND POLES.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post or wire, or any
electric lightpost, pole or electric conductor, wire or lamp or any other thing
connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas main, pipe
or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or connected therewith
or with any of them.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF STREET SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner or form, to deface,
disfigure, damage or destroy any of the street signs or parts thereof located
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly and without lawful authority
alter, destroy, deface, remove or conceal any public notice, posted according
to law, during the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-9
§ 131.10 CLIMBING UTILITY POLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to climb upon any telegraph
pole, telephone pole, electric light pole or sign pole unless in the
performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.11 THROWING JUNK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any dirt, ashes, trash, cans,
bottles, junk or other objects whatsoever upon the premises of another in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
LITTER CONTROL
§ 131.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include
helicopters and lighter-than-air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.
      (1)   A container of water-tight construction with a tight-fitting lid or
cover capable of preventing the escape of contents within.
      (2)   Such RECEPTACLES shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by the United States mail service, including,
but not limited to, those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox
and other structure(s) appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the city.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-1)
§ 131.26 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the city, except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.27 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.28 RECEPTACLES; UPSETTING OR TAMPERING.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.29 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.30 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.31 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed or so
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown
or deposited upon any public place or private premises; nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.32 LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit any litter within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.33 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the city, except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.34 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or upon
any public place; provided, however, that, it shall not be unlawful on any
public place for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver, any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises. No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any
handbill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the occupant of such private premises; provided,
however, that, in case of private premises which are not posted against the
receiving of handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by
anyone upon such premises not to do so, may securely place any such handbill in
such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements
upon any public place or other private premises, except mailboxes may not be so
used when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (C)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only of
newspapers or political literature; except that, newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
   (D)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in
or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of the vehicle is willing to accept it.
   (E)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said handbill distribution.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.35 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public place, except
as may be authorized or required by law. No person, except the owner or tenant
shall post any such notice on private property without the permission of the
owner or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.36 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.37 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.38 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. Such premises shall include, but
not be limited to, such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide
in an easily accessible location a minimum of one refuse container for every 50
parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight-fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as hereinabove
provided for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.39 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY THE CITY.
   (A)   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense(s) thereof as a lien upon such property to be collected
shall be in accordance with the state statutes.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative shall be responsible
for the implementation of this enforcement program.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-15
§ 131.40 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR ICEBOXES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of
one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door which
may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch. The owner, lessee
or manager of such place, who knowingly permits such abandoned or discarded
refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain there in such condition, shall be
guilty of violating this code.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 150
§ 131.41 THEFT OF RECYCLABLES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or pickup
any recyclable item(s) from any receptacle or collection point where service is
provided by an authorized waste hauler licensed by the municipality or from any
specified recycling center within the city limits unless said person is acting
as an agent for the city or acting as an agent for a waste hauler licensed by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.42 RECYCLING BINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any of the following in
the public recycling bin:
      (1)   Garbage;
      (2)   Poisons or poisonous materials;
      (3)   Chemicals;
      (4)   Feces;
      (5)   Paint;
      (6)   Medical waste;
      (7)   Animal carcasses;
      (8)   Weeds;
      (9)   Brush;
      (10)   Yard waste;
      (11)   Tires; and
      (12)   Any item not specifically authorized by division (B) below.
   (B)   Only items specified on the label for each compartment of the bin
shall be deposited in such compartment.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be fined
pursuant to the violation fine schedule previously adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRESPASSING
§ 131.55 TRESPASSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit a
trespass within the municipality upon either public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.56 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES; SUPPRESSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
131.55 of this chapter, any of the following acts by any person, firm or
corporation shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in
violation of the provisions of §
131.55 of this chapter, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any
time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations
of this subchapter; the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as
follows, to-wit:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises of another, or any part thereof, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises, or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to leave any such vehicle, aircraft
or watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section
General Provisions
   
132.001   Disorderly conduct; elements of the offense
   
132.002   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
132.003   Refusing to aid an officer
   
132.004   Excavations
   
132.005   Trapping animals
   
132.006   Fighting
   
132.007   Profanity
   
132.008   Peeping Tom
   
132.009   Scavengers prohibited
   
132.010   False report of offense
   
132.011   Interfering with firefighters
   
132.012   Intimidation
Obscenity
   
132.025   Obscenity generally
   
132.026   Harmful material
   
132.027   Tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributors
Offenses Concerning Weapons
   
132.040   Concealed weapons
   
132.041   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
   
132.042   Storage of explosives
   
132.043   Sale of firearms or weapons to minors
Offenses Concerning Intoxicants
   
132.055   Intoxication in public
   
132.056   Possession of cannabis
Drug Paraphernalia
   
132.070   Definition
   
132.071   Determination of drug paraphernalia
   
132.072   Offenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.001 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town, city
or fire protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such fire
exists;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive device of any nature is concealed in such a place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive device is concealed in such a place;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed;
   (E)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
   (F)   While acting as a collection agency, as defined in the Collection
Agency Act being 225 ILCS 425/1 et seq., or as an employee of such collection
agency, and while attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call
to the alleged debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the
alleged debtor; or
   (G)   Transmits a false report to the Department of Children and Family
Services.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/26-1
§ 132.002 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person commits an offense when that person knowingly resists or obstructs
the performance of any authorized act of one known to the person to be a peace
officer within that peace officer’s official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-1
§ 132.003 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   A person who refuses or knowingly fails, upon command, to reasonably aid a
person known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
 
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-8
§ 132.004 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, maintains, uses and/or
abandons any open well, cesspool, cistern, quarry, recharging basin, catch
basin, sump, excavation for the erection of any building structure or
excavation created by the razing or removal of any building structure without
covering or surrounding such installation with protective fencing. This section
shall not apply during the course of repair, construction, removal or filling
of any of the structures or conditions herein described while any worker is
present at the location thereof either performing services thereon or as a
watchman to guard such location.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 165
§ 132.005 TRAPPING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to trap game or fur-bearing animals unless
permission is granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.006 FIGHTING.
   No person in the city shall start a fight, offer to fight, engage in a
fight, assault or strike another person or provoke a breach of the peace by
threatening to assault or strike another person.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.007 PROFANITY.
   No person in the city shall use obscene, profane, vulgar, offensive or
unseemly language to the annoyance or vexation of others.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.008 PEEPING TOM.
   No person in the city shall enter upon the property of another and for a
lewd and unlawful purpose deliberately look into a dwelling or property through
the window or other opening in the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.009 SCAVENGERS PROHIBITED.
   The term SCAVENGER, as used in this section, shall mean a person who
collects or disposes of refuse, wastes or rubbish as described in Ch. 53 of
this code of ordinances. It shall be unlawful for any person to work or
function as a scavenger, as defined herein, in the city. No person shall
scavenge through any trash receptacle, dumpster or container.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.010 FALSE REPORT OF OFFENSE.
   No person shall transmit in any manner to any police officer or other public
official or public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been
committed, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable
ground for believing that such an offense has been committed.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.011 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   No person shall, at any fire, hinder, delay, resist or obstruct any officer,
firefighter or other person in the discharge of his or her duties or neglect or
refuse to obey the lawful command of any police officer or firefighter at the
scene of a fire.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.012 INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act of intimidating
another within the city.
   (B)   A person commits intimidation when, with the intent to cause another
person to perform or to omit the performance of any act, he or she communicated
to another without otherwise lawful authority to threat to perform any of the
following acts:
      (1)   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person
or property;
      (2)   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint;
      (3)   Commit any criminal offense;
      (4)   Accuse falsely any person of an offense;
      (5)   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule;
      (6)   Unlawfully take action as a public official against anyone or
withhold official action or cause such action or withholding; or
      (7)   Bring about or continue any strike, boycott or other collective or
mob action.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
OBSCENITY
§ 132.025 OBSCENITY GENERALLY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an obscenity when, with the
knowledge of the nature or content thereof or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section or of the penal laws
or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults; except
that, it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or the absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in the
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest or absence thereof in advertising or
other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement or
possession of a mold, engraved plat or other embodiment or obscenity, specially
adapted for reproducing multiple copies or the possession of more than three
copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1
§ 132.026 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person who, with knowledge that a person is
a child; that is, a person under 18 years of age, or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, knowingly distributes
to, or sends or causes to be sent to, or exhibits to or offers to distribute or
exhibit any harmful material to a child is guilty of a violation of this code
of ordinances.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of material whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL. Material which, to the average person applying contemporary
standards, has a predominant appeal, taken as a whole, to prurient interest;
that is, shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion which goes
substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matters and is material, the redeeming social importance
of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents thereof.
      MATERIAL. Any writing picture, record or other representation or
embodiment.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom such material was offered, distributed, sent or exhibited unless
it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case, the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution or publicity,
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is, in fact, substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age; provided,
such circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose,
and it shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of
this section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section:
         (a)   A document issued by the federal government or any state, county
or municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not
limited to a motor vehicle operator’s license;
         (b)   A registration certificate issued under the Federal Selective
Service Act, being 50 U.S.C. §§ 3801 et seq.; or
         (c)   An identification card issued to a member of the armed forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material as defined in
this section culminates in the sale or distribution of such harmful material to
a child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees or agents as where the order or
request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone or similar
means of communication and delivery of such harmful material to the child was
by mail, freight or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or she was not under
the age of 18 years and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was
not under the age of 18 years:
 
NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to purchase the
matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely states
that he is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of obtaining the material
advertised herein is guilty of a misdemeanor.
 
   (E)   Child falsifying age. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely
states, either orally or in writing that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or who presents or offers to any person any evidence of age and identity
which is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
obtaining, viewing or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any
harmful material is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1
§ 132.027 TIE-IN SALES OF OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS TO DISTRIBUTORS.
   Any person, firm or corporation, or any agent, officer or employee thereof
engaged in the business of distributing books, magazines, periodicals, comic
books or other publications to retail dealers who shall refuse to furnish to
any retail dealer such quantity of books, magazines, periodicals, comic books
or other publications as such retail dealer normally sells because the retail
dealer refuses to sell, or offer for sale, any books, magazines, periodicals,
comic books or other publications which are obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy
or indecent is guilty of an offense. Each publication sold or delivered in
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-22
OFFENSES CONCERNING WEAPONS
§ 132.040 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall, within the city, carry or wear under his or her
clothes, or concealed about his or her person, any pistol or colt, or sling-
shot, or cross knuckles or knuckles of lead, brass or other metal, or any
switchblade knife or razor, Bowie knife, dirk knife or dirk, dagger or any
other dangerous or deadly weapon.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the officers or members of the Police
Department, nor to any Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff or constable of the state, nor
to any United States Marshal, nor to anyone who has a valid concealed carry
permit.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-20) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.041 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow or air gun in
the city or so that the bullet, arrow, missile or projectile therefrom enters
the city without written permission from the Mayor; provided that, this section
shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to discharge a
firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor to prevent any citizen from
discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or property;
nor to prevent the discharge of bow and arrow by students upon school grounds
while under the direct and immediate supervision of teachers or other school
supervisory personnel.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.042 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store at or in any place within the city, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the city in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
§ 132.043 SALE OF FIREARMS OR WEAPONS TO MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to sell to any minor
person any firearm, bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand-club, sandbag, metal
knuckles, dagger, dirk, bill, dangerous knife, stiletto or any knife commonly
referred to as a switchblade, which has a blade that opens automatically by
hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to sell, lend, rent,
give or otherwise transfer any “air rifle” to a person under 13 years of age,
except where the relationship of parent-child, guardian- ward or adult
instructor-pupil exists between such person and the person under 13 years of
age.
   (C)   It shall be an affirmative defense for any person in the city having
sold such weapon that:
      (1)   The minor procured the sale by use of false or forged
identification cards;
      (2)   He or she did not know and could not reasonably have known of the
falsity or forgery; and
      (3)   He or she exercised reasonable diligence to determine the veracity
of the representation.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES CONCERNING INTOXICANTS
§ 132.055 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall, in the city, be found in a state of intoxication or drunk
in any street or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying or roving
about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city or the private grounds of
any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as aforesaid, shall disturb the
peace, order and quiet of the city, or the peace and quiet of the citizens
thereof by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent language or
behavior or in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-3
§ 132.056 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   Defined. CANNABIS includes marijuana, hashish and other substances
which are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa,
whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of
such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring
or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly
by extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a
combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the
mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made
from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, cake or the sterilized seed of such plant
which is incapable of germination.
   (B)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this section for any person in
the city knowingly to possess any quantity of any substance containing
cannabis; except that, the effect of this section shall not apply to persons
knowingly possessing more than 30 grams of any substance containing cannabis.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 132.070 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs,
as defined by state statutes, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
state’s Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in the planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment, used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Dilutents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body; and
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes,
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips or other objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette which has become too small or short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs; and
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
(Prior Code, § 27-11-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.071 DETERMINATION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   In determining whether an object is “drug paraphernalia”, a court or other
authority should consider, in addition to all other relevant factors, the
following:
   (A)   Statements by an owner or anyone in control of the object concerning
its use;
   (B)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or anyone in control of the
object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substances;
   (C)   The proximity of the object, in time and place, to a direct violation
of this subchapter;
   (D)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   (E)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
   (F)   Direct and circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or anyone
in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this subchapter; and the innocence of any owner or anyone in control of the
object, as to a direct violation of this subchapter, shall not prevent a
finding that the object is intended or designed for use as “drug
paraphernalia”;
    (G)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
   (H)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (I)   National and local advertising concerning the object’s use;
   (J)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (K)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
   (L)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise in question;
   (M)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
   (N)   Expert testimony concerning the object’s use.
(Prior Code, § 27-11-2)
§ 132.072 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to
use, or possess with the intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of the state’s Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.).
   (B)   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any
person to deliver, to sell, to possess with the intent to deliver or sell or to
manufacture with the intent to deliver or sell, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or
under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the state’s Controlled Substance Act (720
ILCS 570/100 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 27-11-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
Section
Parental Responsibility Regulations
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Parents and guardians responsible for acts
Curfews
   
133.15   Halloween curfew
   
133.16   General curfew
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REGULATIONS
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS OF VANDALISM AND SIMILAR OFFENSES. Any of the following acts:
      (1)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly damaging or
destroying or defacing any property within the city, whether such property is
owned by the state, county or governmental body or owned by any private person,
firm, partnership or association;
      (2)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, by means of fire or explosive
device, damaging, debasing or destroying any property of another person;
      (3)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly starting a fire
on land of another person without his or her consent;
      (4)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly depositing on land or in the
building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb or any
offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the use and occupancy
by another of the land or building; or
      (5)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, and without authority,
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another person without
his or her consent.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. This shall include a foster parent, a person appointed
guardian of a person or given custody of a minor by a Circuit Court of the
state, but does not include a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a
minor, or appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor under the state’s
Juvenile Court Act, being 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
   MINOR. This shall include a person who is above the age of 11 years, but not
yet 18 years of age.
   PARENT. This shall include the lawful father and mother of a minor child
whether by birth or adoption.
   PROPERTY. This shall include any real estate including improvements thereon
and tangible personal property.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-1)
§ 133.02 PARENTS AND GUARDIANS RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS.
   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and said
minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described herein with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian in violation of this
subchapter upon the occurrence of the events described in divisions (A), (B)
and (C) below:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property;
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the city,
following said adjudication or non-judicial sanctions; and
   (C)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of notice set forth
in division (B) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of
any ordinance, law or statute as described in division (A) above, or shall have
incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency resulting from an
admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described
in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-2)
CURFEWS
§ 133.15 HALLOWEEN CURFEW.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in Halloween practice, commonly
called “Trick or Treat”, by calling at the homes or dwelling places within the
city, either masked or unmasked, except on a day designated by the City Council
and no later than 9:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 133.16 GENERAL CURFEW.
   (A)   Established. It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of
age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or
highway at the following times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent,
legal guardian or other responsible companion at least 18 years of age,
approved by a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the laws of the state authorize a person less than 17 years of
age to perform:
      (1)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day; and
      (2)   Between 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday, inclusive and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
   (B)   Responsibility of parents and guardians. It shall be unlawful for a
parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or
her custody or control to violate division (A) above.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-29) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
      
152.   UTILITY FACILITY CONSTRUCTION
      
153.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
154.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
155.   EXCAVATIONS
      
156.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
157.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
158.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
159.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building as Nuisance
   
150.01   Building condition; nuisance
   
150.02   Time limit
   
150.03   Notification
   
150.04   Dangerous and unsafe building defined
   
150.05   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition
   
150.06   Dangerous and unsafe buildings; nuisances
   
150.07   Duties of the Attorney
   
150.08   Liens
   
150.09   Fast-track demolition
Moving Buildings
   
150.20   Permit required
   
150.21   Application for permit
   
150.22   Investigation
   
150.23   Denial of permit
   
150.24   Terms and conditions of permit
   
150.25   Estimate of cost and deposit
   
150.26   Liability insurance
   
150.27   Owner’s completion bond or savings and loan certificate and share
   
150.28   Clearance of site and safety measures required
   
150.29   Inspection fee and permit fee
   
150.30   Issuance of permit
   
150.31   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
150.32   Control and supervision
   
150.33   Notice required
   
150.34   Default in performance of conditions
   
150.35   Approval of route
   
150.36   Obstructing streets
   
150.37   Lights and barricades
   
150.38   Wires and structural supports
   
150.39   Trees, plants and shrubs
   
150.40   Repairs to public property
   
150.41   Refunding deposits
BUILDING AS NUISANCE
§ 150.01 BUILDING CONDITION; NUISANCE.
   The Police Chief shall report to the City Council when any building,
structure or mobile housing unit in the city is in a dangerous condition and
constitutes a nuisance. All references to “building” shall include structure or
mobile housing unit.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-1)
§ 150.02 TIME LIMIT.
   The owner of such building shall repair or alter it so as to make it safe
within 90 days from the time the notice is served upon him or her in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-2)
§ 150.03 NOTIFICATION.
   The Police Chief with the approval of the City Council shall place a notice
on all dangerous and unsafe buildings which shall read as follows.
 
This building has been found to be a dangerous and unsafe building by the city
officials. This notice shall remain on this building until it is repaired,
vacated or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given the
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of this building, or person or
persons in whose name or names such building was last assessed, and all other
persons having an interest in said building as shown by the land records of the
county’s Recorder of Deeds. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such
notice is complied with.
 
(Prior Code, § 25-5-3)
§ 150.04 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDING DEFINED.
   All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 31% or more of damage
or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs
or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the city;
   (E)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to cause injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein;
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of communication;
   (H)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property;
   (I)   Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or property;
   (J)   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of the revised
code of the city, or any other ordinances of the city;
   (K)   Those vacant buildings with unguarded openings shall be deemed to
constitute a fire hazard and to be unsafe within the provisions of this code;
and
   (L)   Those buildings which are uncompleted or abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-4)
§ 150.05 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Police Chief
in ordering repair, vacation or demolition.
   (A)   If the “dangerous and unsafe building” is in such condition as to make
it dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants,
it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (B)   If the “dangerous and unsafe building” can reasonably be repaired so
that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this code, it shall
be ordered repaired.
   (C)   In any case where a “dangerous and unsafe building” is 50% damaged or
decayed, or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be
demolished, and in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this code, it shall be
demolished. In all cases where a “dangerous and unsafe building” is a fire
hazard existing or erected in violation of the terms of this code, or any
ordinance of the city, or statute of the state, it shall be demolished.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-5)
§ 150.06 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS; NUISANCES.
   All dangerous and unsafe buildings within the terms of this subchapter are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated or
demolished as hereinbefore or hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-6)
§ 150.07 DUTIES OF THE ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall apply to the Circuit Court for an order authorizing
the demolition, repair or vacation of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted or abandoned buildings when notices have not been complied with and
when requested to do so by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-7)
§ 150.08 LIENS.
   (A)   The cost of repair, demolition, vacation or enclosure shall be
recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate and shall be a lien
thereon, which lien shall be subordinate to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances; provided that, within 60 days after said cost and expense is
incurred, the city or person performing the service by authority of the city,
in his, her or its own names, shall file notices of lien in the office of the
county’s Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
therefor;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city.
   (C)   Upon payment of said cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in said property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the city or person in whose name(s) the lien has been filed and
said release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of
mortgages or mechanics of lien. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced
within three years after the date of filing notice of lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1
§ 150.09 FAST-TRACK DEMOLITION.
   Notwithstanding any of the terms and provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.08 of this chapter, the city may utilize “fast-track” demolition
proceedings as provided for in and pursuant to the terms of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1
(e) to expedite demolition of certain properties and obtain a lien thereon, if
a residential or commercial building is three stories or less in height, as
defined by the city’s Building Code, and the municipal official in charge of
enforcing the Building Code determines that the building is open and vacant and
an immediate and continuing hazard to the community, the building may be
demolished, repaired or enclosed by the city, or any garbage, debris and other
hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials may be removed by the
city, without the necessity of court proceedings if the notice requirements as
stated in 65 ILCS 11-31-1(e) are complied with and no objections are raised, as
provided for in 65 ILCS 11-31-1(e).
(Ord. 16-611, passed 5-12-2016)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause to be moved, any
building in, into, through or from the city without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the City Clerk. Such permit shall be known as a house moving
permit.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring such a permit shall file with the City Clerk an
application therefor in writing on a form to be furnished by the Street
Superintendent for that purpose.
   (B)   Such application shall specify the following:
      (1)   The character and size of the building to be moved;
      (2)   The reason for such moving;
      (3)   The use, purpose and occupancy for which said building or structure
is to be used;
      (4)   The location from which and to which said building is to be moved;
      (5)   A plot plan showing the proposed location of the building upon the
property to which said building is to be moved; provided, said location is in
the city;
      (6)   The streets on, over or through which it is desired to move said
building; and
      (7)   Whether the building conforms to the Zoning Code or other
applicable regulations in the location to which it is to be moved.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-2)
§ 150.22 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the filing of the application, the Street Superintendent shall cause
the Zoning Administrator, or other authorized representative of the city, to
investigate the building and report to him or her the results of such
investigation, together with recommended action thereon.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-3)
§ 150.23 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall be issued to move any building or structure which, in
the opinion of the Street Superintendent:
      (1)   Is so constructed or in such condition as to be dangerous;
      (2)   Is infested with pests or unsanitary;
      (3)   If it is a dwelling or habitation, is unfit for human habitation;
      (4)   Is so dilapidated, defective, unsightly or in such a condition of
deterioration or disrepair that its relocation at the proposed site would cause
appreciable harm to or be materially detrimental to the property or
improvements in the district within a radius of 1,000 feet from the proposed
site;
      (5)   If the proposed use is prohibited by the zoning laws of the city;
      (6)   If the structure is of a type prohibited at the proposed location
by any ordinance of the city; or
      (7)   If the moving of the building or structure causes unreasonable
damage to the trees, plants and/or shrubs on and along the public streets.
   (B)   Provided, however, that, if the condition of the building or
structure, in the judgment of the Street Superintendent, admits of practicable
and effective repair, the permit may be issued upon the terms and conditions as
set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-4)
§ 150.24 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   When a house moving permit is granted such terms and conditions as may be
deemed reasonable and proper may be imposed, including, but not limited to, the
public streets or other public property in the city on, over or through which
the building or structure shall be moved, and the requirements of changes,
alterations, additions or repairs to be made to or upon the building or
structure, to the end that the relocation thereof will not be materially
detrimental or injurious to public safety or to public welfare or to the
property and improvements, or either, in the district to which it is to be
moved. Such terms and conditions shall be written upon the permit or appended
in writing thereto.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-5)
§ 150.25 ESTIMATE OF COST AND DEPOSIT.
   The applicant shall also deposit with the City Clerk a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost to the city as estimated by the Street
Superintendent of trimming, moving, removing or replanting of trees or shrubs,
and of moving, removing and displacing any pole or other structure, supporting
any wires, cables or other equipment belonging to the city or the cutting,
displacing or changing the location of any wire, cable or other equipment upon
said poles or structures belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-6)
§ 150.26 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Every person moving a building in the city shall file with the City
Clerk a liability insurance policy issued by the solvent corporation holding a
certificate of authority to do insurance business in the state, which policy
shall conform in all respects to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   In lieu of filing the insurance policy herein referred to, a
certificate of insurance issued by an insurance corporation may be filed. The
certificate must show that a policy meeting the requirements of this section
has been issued, and shall set forth the expiration date of said policy.
   (C)   The liability policy required under this section shall insure the
person moving a building against loss from the liability imposed by law for
injury to, or death of any person, or damage to any property growing out of the
moving of such building to the amount or limit of $50,000 exclusive of interest
and costs, on account of injury to or death of any one person, of $100,000
exclusive of interest and costs, on account of moving any one building
resulting in injury to or death of more than one person, and of $25,000 for
damage to property of others, resulting from moving any one building.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-7)
§ 150.27 OWNER’S COMPLETION BOND OR SAVINGS AND LOAN CERTIFICATE AND SHARE.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a permit to move a building, the owner or
lessee of the property upon which the building is to be located shall file with
the Zoning Administrator or other authorized representative of the city, a
corporate surety bond, conditioned as follows.
      (1)   All of the work required to be done to complete the relocation,
alteration and reconstruction of the building pursuant to the conditions of the
permit shall be fully performed and completed within a reasonable time to be
specified in the permit by the Zoning Administrator, or other authorized
representative of the city. Such bond shall be in principal amount equal to the
estimated cost of the work proposed to be done, plus 10% thereof, and shall
name the city as obligee, and shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney.
      (2)   In lieu of furnishing such a corporate surety bond, the owner or
lessee may post a cash deposit in the amount of said bond.
   (B)   An extension of time for the completion may be granted in writing by
the Zoning Administrator or other authorized representative of the city when,
in his or her discretion, circumstances shall so justify, but no such extension
shall release any surety or other security.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-8)
§ 150.28 CLEARANCE OF SITE AND SAFETY MEASURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a permit to move a building, the owner or
lessee of the property from which the building is to be moved shall file with
the City Clerk a bond or other form of security in favor of the city,
conditioned as follows.
      (1)   Before any work is started on a building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall notify the appropriate utilities
in order that all gas, water and oil pipelines that are to be disconnected from
the building may be securely capped and sealed.
      (2)   Immediately after the moving of any building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall securely barricade all basement
excavations and other holes or openings.
      (3)   Within ten days after the moving of any building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall complete the following work:
         (a)   Securely close and seal any sanitary piping located on the
property;
         (b)   Fill with dirt or sand any septic tanks or cesspools located on
the property;
         (c)   Fill any openings, excavations or basements remaining on the
land with dirt or sand to street level or the natural level of adjoining
property, unless otherwise directed by the Street Superintendent;
         (d)   Remove any buried underground tanks formerly used for storage of
flammable liquids; and
         (e)   Removal all refuse, debris and waste materials from the
property.    
   (B)   The bond required by this section shall be an amount equal to the cost
of the work proposed to be done, as estimated by the Street Superintendent.
   (C)   The bond may be in the form of a corporate surety bond, cash deposit,
savings and loan certificate or an instrument of credit.
   (D)   An extension of time for completion of the work required by this
section may be granted by the Street Superintendent when, in his or her
discretion, circumstances justify such an extension; but no such extension
shall release any bond or other security furnished pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-9)
§ 150.29 INSPECTION FEE AND PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   An inspection fee in the sum of $15 shall be paid to the City Clerk
upon filing of each application for a house moving permit.
   (B)   A permit fee in the sum of $10 shall be paid to the City Clerk upon
the issuance of each house moving permit.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-10)
§ 150.30 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Street Superintendent shall approve the issuance of a house moving
permit when all the necessary requirements and conditions of this subchapter
have been complied with. It shall then be the duty of the City Clerk to issue
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-11)
§ 150.31 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Street Superintendent, at any time, and for sufficient cause, may revoke
or suspend any permit granted under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-12)
§ 150.32 CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   Every building which is moved on, over or through any public street, way or
park in the city shall be under the control of the Street Superintendent and
every such building shall be moved in a careful manner and the work shall be
prosecuted with diligence and to the satisfaction and approval of the Street
Superintendent. This section in no way relieves the person having charge of the
moving of any building of his or her obligation to furnish proper supervision.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-13)
§ 150.33 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Notice must be given to both the Street Department and the Police Department
of the city by the person or his or her representative to whom the permit is
issued not less than 48 hours, nor more than 72 hours, before the actual work
of moving a building or structure is to commence.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-14)
§ 150.34 DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a default has occurred in the performance of any term
or condition of any permit, written notice thereof shall be given to the
permittee by the Street Superintendent; said notice to state the work to be
done, the estimated cost thereof and the period of time deemed to be reasonably
necessary to complete such work.
      (2)   After receipt of such notice, the permittee must, within the time
therein specified, either cause the work to be done, or pay over to the City
Clerk the estimated cost of doing the work, as set forth in the notice, plus
10% of said estimated cost.
      (3)   Upon receipt of notice from the City Clerk that the permittee has
deposited such money, the Street Superintendent shall cause the required work
to be performed and completed.
   (B)   If the permittee defaults, the city shall have the option in lieu of
completing the work required to demolish the building or structure and to
clear, clean and restore the site or sites.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-15)
§ 150.35 APPROVAL OF ROUTE.
   The streets over which any building or structure is to be moved must be
recommended by the Street Superintendent and the Chief of Police to the City
Council for approval.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-16)
§ 150.36 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person owning or having charge of the moving of any building into, on,
over, through or from any public streets, ways or parks in the city shall
permit said building to remain in any one location on any such street, way or
park for a period longer than 24 hours, except by written permission obtained
from the Chief of Police, or to obstruct traffic on any railroad.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.37 LIGHTS AND BARRICADES.
   The person having charge of the moving of any structure shall maintain
proper lights and barricades whenever such structure is on any public street,
way or park during the hours of darkness.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-18)
§ 150.38 WIRES AND STRUCTURAL SUPPORTS.
   (A)   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall
have been granted hereunder makes it necessary to move, remove or displace any
pole or other structure supporting the wires, cables or other equipment of any
public utility or of the city, or to cut, displace or change the location of
any wire, cable or other equipment upon said pole or structure, the person to
whom such permit has been granted, or his or her authorized representative,
shall obtain permission in writing from the owner or owners of such pole,
structure or wires, cables or other equipment thereon, and shall notify such
owner or owners at least 72 hours prior to the time that the moving of such
building will necessitate the removal of such obstructions.
   (B)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall not, at the expiration
of said time of notice or at any time, cut, move or in any way disturb such
public utility or city property; and such work shall be done only by the
authorized workers of the utility or the city, whichever is the owner.
   (C)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall pay to the public
utility, or to the city, as the case may be, any and all costs or expense for
the removal, rearrangement or replacement of any pole or structural support of
wires, cables or equipment thereon or of any damage to such property.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-19)
§ 150.39 TREES, PLANTS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall
have been granted hereunder makes it necessary to trim, move, remove or replant
any tree, plant or shrub belonging to or under the control of the city, the
person to whom such permit has been granted or his or her authorized
representative shall notify the Street Superintendent at least 72 hours prior
to the time that the moving of such building will necessitate the removal of
such obstructions.
   (B)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall not, at the expiration
of the time of notice, or at any time, trim, move, remove, replant or otherwise
disturb such trees, plants or shrubs; and such work shall be done only by the
authorized workers of the city unless otherwise approved and so ordered by the
Street Superintendent.
   (C)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall pay to the city, any
and all costs or expenses for the trimming, moving, removing or replanting of
any trees, plants or shrubs or of any damage thereto.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-20)
§ 150.40 REPAIRS TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall have
been granted hereunder causes damage to the public streets or other public
property, in addition to any other remedies the city may have, the Street
Superintendent may cause such damage to be repaired and the cost thereof shall
be deducted from the deposit required herein, or he or she may require the
person to whom such a permit has been granted, or his or her authorized
representative, upon written notification from the Street Superintendent to
make all necessary repairs to such streets or property; provided, however,
that, should the person to whom the permit has been granted and to whom the
notice has been given, or his or her authorized representative, fails to make
the necessary repairs within the period of time designated in the written
notice, the Street Superintendent may cause such necessary repairs to be made
and the cost thereof deducted from the deposit required herein.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-21)
§ 150.41 REFUNDING DEPOSITS.
   When the moving of any building for which a permit has been granted is
completed, and all damage to public streets or other public property has been
repaired to the satisfaction of the Street Superintendent, and all costs of
repairing damages or performing other work as provided herein have been paid
and the deposit as required by §
150.25 of this chapter, or such portion thereof then remaining unused under the
provisions of this subchapter, shall be refunded upon surrender of the deposit
receipt representing the money so deposited. However, should the cost of
repairing damages and/or performing other work, as in this subchapter provided,
exceed the total amount of money deposited, the person to whom the permit was
granted shall be held liable for the amount of damage and/or other costs which
are in excess of the amount deposited. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk,
upon receipt of the request from the Street Superintendent, to collect such
part of the claim which is in excess of the deposit from the person to whom the
permit was granted.
(Prior Code, § 33-9-22)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   State requirements adopted by reference
   
151.03   Manufactured Housing Act adopted
   
151.04   State Department of Public Health regulations adopted
   
151.05   National safety standards
   
151.06   Skirting
   
151.07   Fire extinguishers
   
151.08   Inspection
   
151.09   Off-street parking
   
151.10   Prohibited residential uses
Immobilized Manufactured Homes
   
151.25   General
   
151.26   Permit; fee
   
151.27   Lot size
   
151.28   Concrete pads
   
151.29   Limit of units
Manufactured Home Park Administration
   
151.40   Compliance with statutes; applicability
   
151.41   Permitting and planning a park
   
151.42   Local government requirements
   
151.43   Permits
   
151.44   Inspection
   
151.45   Violation proceedings
   
151.46   Initial permit required
   
151.47   Lot size
   
151.48   Restrictions
   
151.49   License fee
Manufactured Home Park Design and Construction Requirements
   
151.60   Plan document
   
151.61   Application
   
151.62   Location
   
151.63   Roadways and parking
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and the City Council.
   IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOME. Any manufactured home resting on a permanent
foundation with wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed. The City Council
establishes the following criteria to complete the immobilization of a
manufactured home.
      (1)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line so
as to attach and become a part of the real estate. Materials such as concrete,
mortared concrete block or mortared brick extending into the ground below the
frost line shall satisfy the requirement for a permanent foundation.
      (2)   As an alternative to division (1) above, piers may be used,
extending into the ground below the frost line and sufficient in number to
properly support the manufactured home.
      (3)   To complete the immobilization, wheels, tongue and hitch shall be
removed. Axles may be removed.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the city allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this code and
the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term shall only include manufactured homes constructed after 6-30-
1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. Compliance
with this standard is indicated by a two-inch by four-inch metal plate attached
to the exterior tail light end of the manufactured home. The average width and/
or length of the living area (excluding garages, carports, porches or
attachments) of a manufactured home shall not exceed a ratio of three to one.
As with all residences, a MANUFACTURED HOME shall have a minimum 4/12 pitch
roof with residential style siding and roofing, six-inch minimum eave overhang,
and shall have a minimum living area of not less than 900 square feet; provided
that, any such structure resting on a permanent foundation with wheels, tongue
and hitch permanently removed shall not be construed as a MANUFACTURED HOME,
but shall be an “immobilized manufactured home”. A MANUFACTURED HOME should not
be confused with a “camping trailer” or “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, DEPENDENT. A manufactured home which does not have a
toilet and bath or shower facilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. This consists of two mobile units joined at
the side into a single home, but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation to a site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, INDEPENDENT. A manufactured home which has self-contained
toilet and bath or shower facilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a manufactured
home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PAD. The part of an individual manufactured home space or
lot beneath the manufactured home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of
land upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for two or more
independent manufactured homes for permanent habitation either free of charge
or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such
manufactured home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall
not preclude the tracts of land from common licensure as a MANUFACTURED HOME
PARK if they are maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized
manufactured home nor a motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as
being a part of a MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale
and repair of new or used manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A portion of a manufactured home park designed for
the use or occupancy of one manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT. All forms of housing units listed in this section
and as regulated in this code.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed as
to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frame, from the place of its construction to the location or subsequent
location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons.
      (2)   The term MOBILE HOME shall only include homes constructed prior to
6-30-1976, not in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated single-family home built in one or more
sections. The average width and/or length of the living area (excluding
garages, carports, porches or attachments) of a MODULAR HOME shall not exceed a
ratio of three to one. All MODULAR HOMES shall be placed in a full perimeter
foundation, extending below the frost depth. All wheels and towing devices
shall be removed. As with all residences, a MODULAR HOME shall have a minimum
4/12 pitch roof with residential style siding and roofing, six-inch minimum
eave overhang, and shall have a minimum living area of not less than 900 square
feet. MODULAR HOMES shall have a yellow seal in the shape of the state on the
electrical panel box of the home or on the inside of the kitchen sink cabinet.
Local officials may require additional items other than the minimum state
requirements such as the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards (HUD Code) or the Building Code (BOCA). All structures shall be
placed on a permanent foundation in order that they may be assessed as real
estate.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by the Building or Zoning Inspector, permitting
the construction, alteration or reduction in number of spaces of a manufactured
home park under the provisions in this code.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state or any political subdivision or department thereof or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the city for an indefinite period of time.
   SITE. The lot on which the manufactured home is located for permanent
habitation.
   SPACE. This shall be synonymous with MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the city for a temporary period of time with an expectation of
resumption.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 210 ILCS 115/2.3, 210 ILCS 115/2.4, 210 ILCS 115/
2.5, 210 ILCS 115/2.7 and 210 ILCS 115/2.10
§ 151.02 STATE REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The state’s Mobile Home Park Act, being 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq. and the
Mobile Home Tiedown Act (77 Ill. Adm. Code 870) of 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq., as
passed, approved and amended by the state’s General Assembly are hereby adopted
by the city. The applicable provisions as they pertain to manufactured homes
and immobilized manufactured homes shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-2)
§ 151.03 MANUFACTURED HOUSING ACT ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Modular Dwelling and Mobile Structure Safety Act being 430 ILCS
115/1 et seq. , as passed and approved by the state’s General Assembly are
hereby adopted by the city, the applicable provisions as they pertain to
manufactured homes and immobilized manufactured homes shall be controlling
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
§ 151.04 STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Manufactured Home Community Code, as approved by the state’s
Department of Public Health (1998), is hereby adopted by the city.
   (B)   The applicable provisions as they pertain to manufactured home
community shall be controlling within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-4)
§ 151.05 NATIONAL SAFETY STANDARDS.
   No manufactured home or immobilized manufactured home shall be located in
the city unless the unit has the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety standards metal seal affixed thereto.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-5)
§ 151.06 SKIRTING.
   Skirting shall be used to conceal all underpinning, plumbing and support
piers whether on a permanent foundation or otherwise. All skirting shall be
installed on all manufactured housing units within 60 days of the placement of
the unit.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-6)
§ 151.07 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   All manufactured housing units located in the city shall be equipped with a
fire extinguishing apparatus capable of extinguishing all types of fires. Such
extinguishers shall be of sufficient size so that they will reasonably protect
the manufactured housing units. All fire extinguishers shall be approved by the
Fire Chief or his or her designated representative prior to installation.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 425 ILCS 60/1-60/4
§ 151.08 INSPECTION.
   All manufactured housing units located in the city shall be subject to
reasonable inspection by an official or officials designated by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-8)
§ 151.09 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Every owner of a manufactured housing unit shall provide for a dustless,
off-street parking area of 400 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-9)
§ 151.10 PROHIBITED RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Dependent mobile home. It shall be unlawful to locate a dependent
mobile home in the city unless placed in a state-licensed travel trailer park.
   (B)   Independent travel trailer. It shall be unlawful to reside in an
independent travel trailer in the city unless it is located in a state-licensed
travel trailer park.
   (C)   Manufactured home. It shall be unlawful to locate a manufactured home
or a mobile home in a state-licensed travel trailer park without written
permission of the City Council or the Zoning Board.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 151.25 GENERAL.
   All immobilized manufactured homes located in the city shall be classified
as real estate; therefore, it is mandatory for all persons owning, operating,
renting or leasing an existing manufactured home outside a manufactured home
park to remove or cause to have removed the wheels or any other transportation
device from the manufactured home. The owner or lessor shall permanently fix it
to the ground in a manner that conforms to the definition of an immobilized
manufactured home in §
151.01 of this chapter. All existing manufactured homes, when replaced, shall
comply with the immobilization provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-1)
§ 151.26 PERMIT; FEE.
   All persons seeking to locate or replace a manufactured home or an
immobilized manufactured home outside a manufactured home park shall obtain a
building or zoning permit from the City Clerk or Building Inspector. No utility
services shall be connected to the unit until the city has issued the
appropriate permits. The fee to locate or relocate a manufactured home or
immobilized manufactured home shall be $25. (See Ch. 159 of this code of
ordinances for districts permitting these uses.)
(Prior Code, § 23-2-2)
§ 151.27 LOT SIZE.
   (A)   The minimum lot size for the location of an immobilized manufactured
home unit shall be 6,000 square feet.
   (B)   All units shall be located in the city according to the requirements
and restrictions of this chapter.
   (C)   They shall not exceed 40% coverage of the lot or the requirements of
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances, if any.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-3)
§ 151.28 CONCRETE PADS.
   All immobilized manufactured homes shall conform to the specifications for
these units as provided in the definition in §
151.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-4)
§ 151.29 LIMIT OF UNITS.
   There shall be only one immobilized manufactured home per lot in the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-5)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES, APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Every manufactured home park hereafter established in the city shall,
at a minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      (1)   The state’s Mobile Home Park Act, being 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq. and
the Mobile Home Tiedown Act (77 Ill. Adm. Code 870) of 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.,
as passed, approved and amended by the state’s General Assembly are hereby
adopted by the city. The applicable provisions as they pertain to manufactured
homes and immobilized manufactured homes shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the city;
      (2)   The Manufactured Home Community Code being 77 Ill. Admin. Code 860,
as approved by the state’s Department of Public Health (1998), is hereby
adopted by the city. The applicable provisions as they pertain to manufactured
home community shall be controlling within the corporate limits;
      (3)   This chapter; and
      (4)   Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In case of conflict between any provisions of the above, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-1)
§ 151.41 PERMITTING AND PLANNING A PARK.
   (A)   Any person seeking to establish, operate, alter or expand a
manufactured home park shall obtain a permit to construct or a license to
operate a manufactured home park.
   (B)   CONSTRUCT OR OPERATE A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, as used in this
chapter, shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, supplying or
maintaining common water, sewer or other utility supplies or services, or the
collection of rents directly or indirectly from two or more independent
manufactured homes. (All plans shall be submitted to the City Council or Plan
Commission for approval prior to the granting of a permit.)
(Prior Code, § 23-3-2)
§ 151.42 LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit does not relieve the applicant from complying with this chapter or
other ordinances applicable thereto. (See
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.)
(Prior Code, § 23-3-3)
§ 151.43 PERMITS.
   The Plan Commission or the City Council shall review each application and
plan documents submitted. When the application and plan documents are found to
be in compliance with the Manufactured Home Community Code, as approved by the
state’s Department of Public Health, the City Council or its designee may issue
the proper permit to construct or alter a manufactured home park to the
applicant. Permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-4)
§ 151.44 INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of the proposed construction of a manufactured home park or
the proposed alteration of a manufactured home park, the applicant shall notify
the city or the designated official in order that an inspection of the complete
facilities can be made.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-5)
§ 151.45 VIOLATION PROCEEDINGS.
   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension
by the Mayor. However, the Mayor or his or her representative shall first serve
or cause to be served upon the licensee a written notice in which shall be
specified the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to comply with the
statutes, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the city pertaining
thereto. The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such
nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition, specified in such notice
within five days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the
City Council. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of
the notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the Mayor
or his or her representative may revoke or suspend such license.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-6)
§ 151.46 INITIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Each manufactured home that locates on a lot in a manufactured home park
shall secure an initial building or zoning permit from the city. All future
locations on the same lot shall be exempt from the fee. (See
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.)
(Prior Code, § 23-3-7)
§ 151.47 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for a manufactured home pad shall be 8,000 square feet,
with a minimum frontage of 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-17)
§ 151.48 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No manufactured home unit parked in a manufactured home park shall be
immobilized.
   (B)   Not more than one manufactured home unit shall be parked in one space.
   (C)   No travel-trailer shall be permitted in any manufactured home park,
unless a special area has been approved for that purpose by the City Council or
the Zoning Board.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-18)
§ 151.49 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee per manufactured home park shall be $100, and
shall be due and payable on or before May 1 of each year.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall notify the owner or operator of the annual fee at
least 30 days prior to May 1.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-21)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.60 PLAN DOCUMENT.
   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to operate a
manufactured home park, the applicant shall file with the city a written
application and plan documents and such plan documents shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the state, with
registration seal affixed. Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the
application filed with the City Clerk to obtain a permit to construct or alter
a manufactured home park or an original license to operate a manufactured home
park, not previously licensed by the Department. These plans shall include, but
not be limited to the design and construction criteria set forth herein. (If
there is a Zoning Administrator, then the plans should be filed with that
office.)
(Prior Code, § 23-3-10)
§ 151.61 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant shall file with the City Clerk a written application
and plan documents for the proposed construction or alteration of a
manufactured home park.
   (B)   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the engineer
or architect and shall include:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application;
      (2)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the manufactured home park is to be located;
      (3)   The plot plans of the manufactured home park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities;
      (4)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached; and
      (5)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $300
for a permit to construct or an application fee of $150 for a permit to alter
to increase the size of the park.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-11)
§ 151.62 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Sites selected for manufactured home development shall be well-
drained and free from topographical or geological hinderances and from other
conditions unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The manufactured
home development shall not be located near swamps, wetlands, marshes or other
breeding places of insects, rats, mice or other rodents.
      (2)   When a good, natural drainage is not available, storm water
drainage shall be provided and such drainage shall not endanger any water
supply or surface watercourse.
   (B)   The City Council may authorize a site survey to ascertain that the
proposed location complies with the above requirements. (See
Ch. 157 and
159 of this code of ordinances.)
(Prior Code, § 23-3-12)
§ 151.63 ROADWAYS AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed in
compliance with
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   All streets in parks constructed shall have a minimum right-of-
way of 50 feet and a minimum road width of 32 feet for the purpose of this
chapter, and shall be considered private streets to be maintained by the park
owner or operator.
      (2)   If a manufactured home park has more than 50 units, a wider street
may be required by the corporate authorities.
   (C)   Sidewalks and walkways shall be constructed abutting a street in a
manufactured home park and shall be a minimum of four feet in width; provided,
however, there shall be no minimum width requirement for sidewalks for each
individual lot. No portion of a mobile home shall block, in any way, the
pedestrian traffic on the walkways.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-13)
CHAPTER 152: UTILITY FACILITY CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose and scope
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Annual registration required
   
152.004   Indemnification
   
152.005   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
152.006   General construction standards
   
152.007   Traffic control
   
152.008   Removal, relocation or modification of utility facilities
   
152.009   Cleanup and restoration
   
152.010   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
152.011   Variances
   
152.012   Enforcement
Permits
   
152.025   Permit required
   
152.026   Permit application
   
152.027   Minimum general application requirements
   
152.028   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities
   
152.029   Applicant’s duty to update information
   
152.030   Application fees
   
152.031   Action on permit application
   
152.032   Effect of permit
   
152.033   Revised permit drawings
   
152.034   Permit suspension and revocation
Insurance
   
152.045   Required coverages and limits
   
152.046   Excess or umbrella policies
   
152.047   Copies required
   
152.048   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages
   
152.049   Self-insurance
   
152.050   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability
Security
   
152.065   Purpose
   
152.066   Form
   
152.067   Amount
   
152.068   Withdrawals
   
152.069   Replenishment
   
152.070   Interest
   
152.071   Closing and return of security fund
   
152.072   Rights not limited
Location of Facilities
   
152.085   Parallel facilities located within highways
   
152.086   Facilities crossing highways
   
152.087   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way
   
152.088   Freestanding facilities
   
152.089   Appearance standards
   
152.090   Above-ground installation
   
152.091   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures
Construction Methods and Materials
   
152.105   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods
   
152.106   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities
   
152.107   Materials
   
152.108   Operational restrictions
   
152.109   Location of existing facilities
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   (C)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (D)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (E)   Conflicts with other articles or chapters. This chapter supersedes all
articles or chapters or parts of articles or chapters adopted prior hereto that
are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (F)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (G)   Sound engineering judgment.
      (1)   The city shall use sound engineering judgment when administering
this chapter and may vary the standards, conditions and requirements expressed
in this chapter when the city so determines.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-1)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term not defined
in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code
520.20, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes; electrical conductors; and fiber optic devices.
   CITY. The City of Carrollton.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds and on
the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the ASSHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective rapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. This code of ordinances.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electric current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works or his or her
designee of the city.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any work that obstructs the right-of-way or causes
a material adverse affect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the
soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner
that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required of the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including track
and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-
of-way under this chapter, except those owned by the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life,
health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determine to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, sign, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as amended
from time to time.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ILCC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
152.025 through
152.031 of this chapter.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radically against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or
commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the
city has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location
of facilities other than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §§
152.065 through
152.072 of this chapter.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
defined in the state’s Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act,
35 ILCS 635/1 et seq. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of inter- company facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the city through an open video system as defined in
the rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. §§ 76.1550 and
following) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunication at retail, as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
    WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-2)
§ 152.003 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in §§
152.045 through
152.050 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. A
telecommunications provider that has registered under this section shall be
deemed to have satisfied the registration requirement under §
152.002 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-3)
§ 152.004 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that, the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall
not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or
expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach
of this chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-9)
§ 152.005 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city’s right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-12)
§ 152.006 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic- control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic-Control Items;
      (6)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (7)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the City Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the City Director of Public Works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation
of a facility in the future.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-13) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 152.007 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices
and this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
    (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that, in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
152.010 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the city.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-14)
§ 152.008 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate,
change or alter the position of any utility facilities within the rights-of-way
whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the construction,
repair, maintenance or installation of any city improvement in or upon, or the
operations of the city in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities.
      (1)   Within 30 days following written notice from the city, any utility
that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized facility or related
appurtenances within the public rights-of-way shall, at its own expense, remove
all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances from the public rights-of-
way.
      (2)   A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
         (b)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
         (c)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
         (d)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice, the city may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-18)
§ 152.009 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the
utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a
timely manner and to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads.
   (B)   Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and
methods approved by the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling,
regrading, reseeding, resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-
of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to
the commencement of the project.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-19)
§ 152.010 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flags. If a hazard does not
exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the Director
of Public Works a description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way
within 48 hours after an emergency repair.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-20)
§ 152.011 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Director of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The city’s Director of Public
Works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter, but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-21)
§ 152.012 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-23)
PERMITS
§ 152.025 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct, as defined in this chapter, any facility
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any city right-of-way
which:
      (1)   Changes the location of the facility;
      (2)   Adds a new facility;
      (3)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter); or
      (4)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Director of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-4)
§ 152.026 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   All applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be filed on a
form provided by the city and shall be filed in such number of duplicate copies
as the city may designate. The applicant may designate those portions of its
application materials that it reasonably believes contain propriety or
confidential information as “proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking
each page of such materials accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-4)
§ 152.027 MINIMUM GENERAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The application shall be made by the utility or its duly authorized
representative and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
   (B)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone, telecopy number, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
   (C)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
   (D)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent
of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The scope and
detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of
the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be
affected or impacted by the work proposed;
   (E)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
      (1)   A written traffic-control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the state traffic
laws, to prevent injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize
disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
      (2)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ILCC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed.
   (F)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
   (G)   Evidence of insurance as required in §§
152.045 through
152.050 of this chapter;
   (H)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §§
152.065 through
152.072 of this chapter;
   (I)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this chapter
(see §
152.011 of this chapter); and
   (J)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-4) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 152.028 SUPPLEMENTAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC TYPES OF
UTILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of division (C) below, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
   (A)   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity has been issued by the ILCC that the applicant is
required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
   (B)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
   (C)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
state’s Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
   (D)   In the case of sewer line installation, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District (other local or state entities with jurisdiction) have been satisfied;
or
   (E)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-4)
§ 152.029 APPLICANT’S DUTY TO UPDATE INFORMATION.
   Throughout the entire permit application review period and the construction
period authorized by the permit, any amendments to information contained in a
permit application shall be submitted by the utility in writing to the city
within 30 days after the change necessitating the amendment.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-4)
§ 152.030 APPLICATION FEES.
   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar agreement, all
applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by a fee
to be determined by the Zoning Administrator. No application fee is required to
be paid by any telecommunications retailer that is paying the municipal
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to Title III of this
code of ordinances or the optional state telecommunications infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the Telecommunications Municipal Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act being 35 ILCS 635/1 et seq., or by any electricity utility
that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee
pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-4) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 152.031 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Director of
Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Director of Public Works shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Director of Public Works is
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter
and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Director
of Public Works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to commence
work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Director of Public Works shall specify the portion of
the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used or constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Director of Public Works fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either
ten days after service of notice to the city by the telecommunications retailer
in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or 25 days
after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required or work pursuant to §§
152.025 through
152.030 of this chapter, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
city an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 152.032 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-6)
§ 152.033 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it should be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
152.011 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-7)
§ 152.034 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
      (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) above, the city or its designee
may, at the option of the city:
      (1)   Correct the deficiencies;
      (2)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
      (3)   After not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of failure to
cure the non- compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the city.
   (F)   Liability. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for
all cots of removal.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-11)
INSURANCE
§ 152.045 REQUIRED COVERAGES AND LIMITS.
   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar agreement, each
utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in the right-of-way
shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance policies insuring
the utility as named insured and naming the city and its elected and appointed
officers, officials, agents and employees as additional insureds on the
policies listed in divisions (A) and (B) below:
   (A)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-operations,
explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred as “X”, “C” and
“U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with limits not less
than:
      (1)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
      (2)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
      (3)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
   (B)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
   (C)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
   (D)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000
per employee and per accident.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-8)
§ 152.046 EXCESS OR UMBRELLA POLICIES.
   The coverages required by this section may be in any combination of primary,
excess and umbrella policies. Any excess or umbrella policy must provide excess
coverage over underlying insurance on a following-form basis such that when any
loss covered by the primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy,
the excess or umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-8)
§ 152.047 COPIES REQUIRED.
   The utility shall provide copies of any of the policies required by this
section to the city within ten days following receipt of a written request
therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-8)
§ 152.048 MAINTENANCE AND RENEWAL OF REQUIRED COVERAGES.
   (A)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the city, by
registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a written
notice addressed to the city collector of such intent to cancel or not to
renew.
 
   (B)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-8)
§ 152.049 SELF-INSURANCE.
   (A)   A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirements required by §
152.045 of this chapter.
   (B)   A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under §
152.045 of this chapter or the requirements of §§
152.046,
152.047 and
152.048 of this chapter.
   (C)   A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under §
152.045 of this chapter, such as evidence that the utility is a “private self
insurer” under the Worker’s Compensation Act.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-8)
§ 152.050 EFFECT OF INSURANCE AND SELF-INSURANCE ON UTILITY’S LIABILITY.
   The legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this subchapter shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-8)
SECURITY
§ 152.065 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in §
152.067 of this chapter.
      (2)   The Security Fund shall be continuously maintained in accordance
with this subchapter at the permittee’s sole cost and expense until the
completion of the work authorized under the permit.
   (B)   The Security Fund shall serve a security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
§ 152.066 FORM.
   (A)   The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the city in the form,
at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable to the
city or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the city.
   (B)   Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this section
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
§ 152.067 AMOUNT.
   The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to provide for
the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at least as good a
condition as that existing prior to the construction under the permit, as
determined by the Director of Public Works, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be incurred if the
permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the city, with each phase consisting of construction of facilities
in one location or related group of locations, and where construction in
another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial completion of
restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Director of Public Works may,
in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this section for any single phase.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
§ 152.068 WITHDRAWALS.
   (A)   The city, upon 14 days’ advance written notice, clearly stating the
reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under this section,
may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund; provided that, the permittee has
not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-day notice period.
   (B)   Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
§ 152.069 REPLENISHMENT.
   Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the city that any amount
has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the permittee shall restore the
Security Fund to the amount specified in §
152.067 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
§ 152.070 INTEREST.
   The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued on the amount in
the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the city, upon written
request for said withdrawal to the city; provided that, any such withdrawal
does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required in §
152.067 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
§ 152.071 CLOSING AND RETURN OF SECURITY FUND.
   Upon completion of the work authorized under the permit, the permittee shall
be entitled to the return of the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as
remains on deposit, within a reasonable time after account is taken for all
offsets necessary to compensate the city for failure by the permittee to comply
with any provisions of this chapter or other applicable law. In the event of
any revocation of the permit, the Security Fund, and any and all accrued
interest therein, shall become the property of the city to the extent necessary
to cover any reasonable costs, loss or damage incurred by the city as a result
of said revocation; provided that, any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or
damage shall be refunded to the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
§ 152.072 RIGHTS NOT LIMITED.
   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the Security Fund are in
addition to all other rights of the city, whether reserved by this chapter or
otherwise authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of right
with respect to said Security Fund shall affect any other right the city may
have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city shall not be entitled to a double
monetary recovery with respect to any of its rights which may be infringed or
otherwise violated.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-10)
LOCATION OF FACILITIES
§ 152.085 PARALLEL FACILITIES LOCATED WITHIN HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
      (1)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
      (2)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of the
curb, where available;
      (3)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
      (4)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
      (5)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3 m)
of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
   (B)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility may
be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
      (1)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
      (2)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a highway
only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
      (3)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-15)
§ 152.086 FACILITIES CROSSING HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
   (B)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
   (C)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at or
as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
   (D)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      (1)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
      (2)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
      (3)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
   (E)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      (1)   The design materials and construction methods will provide maximum
maintenance-free service life; and
      (2)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
   (F)   Markers.
      (1)   The city may require the utility to provide a marker at each right-
of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or communication
facility crosses a highway.
      (2)   Each marker shall identify the type of facility, the utility and an
emergency phone number.
      (3)   Markers may also be eliminated as provided in current federal
regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707).
(Prior Code, § 33-10-15)
§ 152.087 FACILITIES TO BE LOCATED WITHIN PARTICULAR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The city may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-
way that are not highways, rather than within particular highways.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-15)
§ 152.088 FREESTANDING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
   (B)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a right-
of-way to be screened from view.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-15)
§ 152.089 APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
   (B)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-15)
§ 152.090 ABOVE-GROUND INSTALLATION.
   Above-ground facilities may be installed only if:
   (A)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
   (B)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
   (C)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will employ
suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of aesthetic
qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting safety.
Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting armless,
single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-15)
§ 152.091 FACILITY ATTACHMENTS TO BRIDGES OR ROADWAY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable.
      (2)   Other means shall include, but are not limited to, underground,
underwater, independent poles, cable supports and tower supports, all of which
are completely separated from the bridge or roadway structure.
      (3)   Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile, flammable,
corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure or
potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
   (B)   (1)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing.
      (2)   Approval or disapproval of an application for facility attachment
to a bridge or roadway structure will be based upon the following
considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-15)
CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS
§ 152.105 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICULAR TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
METHODS.
   (A)   Boring or jacking.
      (1)   Pits and shoring. Boring and jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director
of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations
are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected
by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and
maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that
may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operations.
      (2)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be permitted
under the roadway.
      (3)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
      (4)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches or
less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger or
auger and following pipe method.
      (5)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of any
tree designed by the city to be preserved shall be bored under or around the
root system.
   (B)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or maintenance
on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable portions of § 603
of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
      (1)   The length of open trench shall be kept to the practicable minimum
consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only one-half of any
intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special permission is
obtained from the Director of Public Works.
      (2)   Open trench and windrowed excavated material shall be protected as
required by state traffic laws. Where practicable, the excavated material shall
be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added protection. Excavated
material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved portion of the roadway.
Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing excavated material off
the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material shall be hauled to an off-
road location.
      (3)   The utility shall not trench within the drip line of any tree
designated by the city to be preserved.
   (C)   Backfilling.
      (1)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
      (2)   (a)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility.
         (b)   If so ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at
its expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   Pavement cuts.
      (1)   Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair shall be
permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed to
traffic.
      (2)   If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (D) is
permitted under §
152.011 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designed by
the Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
   (E)   Encasement.
      (1)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the highway
and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either by one-
piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the city.
      (2)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one foot
(0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be located
in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the
highway.
      (3)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall be
furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
      (4)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may be
eliminated.
      (5)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
         (a)   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
         (b)   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
      (6)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
   (F)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                             Minimum Cover
Communication line installed by the plowed   24 inches (0.6 m)
method
Gas or petroleum products                    30 inches (0.8 m)
Power or communication line (in general)     30 inches (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage line Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
Water line                                   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
 
(Prior Code, § 33-10-16) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 152.106 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICULAR TYPES OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Electric power or communication lines.
      (1)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities within
city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in conformity
with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 305 (formerly General Order 160 of the
state’s Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction of Electric Power
and Communications Lines” and the National Electrical Safety Code.
      (2)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
      (3)   Underground facilities.
         (a)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided that,
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
         (b)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
            1.   The crossing is installed by the use of “moles”, “whip augers”
or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation;
            2.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction; or
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
   (B)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
      (1)   The use of “moles”, “whip augers” or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
      (2)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the ditch
lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
      (3)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines or
toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
      (4)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
   (C)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192n - Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 C.F.R.
part 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and
all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
   (D)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
   (E)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or drainage
lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and drainage lines
within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the current
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
   (F)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to overhead
or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall be
provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works. With the approval of
the Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-16)
§ 152.107 MATERIALS.
   (A)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the state’s Commerce
Commission or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies
for the appropriate industry.
   (B)   Material storage on right-of-way. All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior
to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
   (C)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-16)
§ 152.108 OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of the
city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create hazards
to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations may also
be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such that
construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
   (B)   These restrictions may be waived by the Director of Public Works when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
   (C)   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of construction are
from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-16)
§ 152.109 LOCATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Any utility proposing to construct facilities in the city shall contact
J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and location of existing aboveground and
underground facilities within the rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed
facilities. The city will make its permit record available to a utility for the
purpose of identifying possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or
when requested by the city or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and
physically mark its underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends
and holidays, in accordance with the state’s Underground Facilities Damage
Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 33-10-16)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this code of ordinances. There may be
times when the city will incur delay or other costs, including third party
claims, because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its
permit and this chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of
the cost of undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall
bear the city’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining,
modifying, relocating or removing the facility that is the subject of the
permit. No other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a
permit related cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility who does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-22)
CHAPTER 153: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   General prohibition
   
153.02   Computation of sign area allowance
   
153.03   Definition
   
153.04   Special situations
   
153.05   Signs to be non-hazardous, well maintained
   
153.06   Illumination
   
153.07   Non-conforming signs
   
153.08   Restrictions
   
153.09   Strictly prohibited signs
   
153.10   Signs permitted in any district
   
153.11   Agricultural; residential districts
   
153.12   Business; industrial districts
   
153.13   Temporary signs
Types of Signs
   
153.25   Flush-mounted signs
   
153.26   Window signs
   
153.27   Projecting signs
   
153.28   Canopy or marquee signs
   
153.29   Freestanding signs
   
153.30   Billboards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   Any sign not expressly permitted in this chapter shall be deemed prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-1)
§ 153.02 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Within the limitations and restrictions as further provided in this
chapter, the total area of all signs which an establishment is permitted to
display shall be computed according to the following formula:
 
1 square foot of sign area per 1 foot of street frontage or 2 square feet of
sign for each linear foot of the front width of the business
 
   (B)   Provided, however, that, no establishment in any district shall
display more than 300 square feet of sign on any street front.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-2)
§ 153.03 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, the term SIGN AREA means the area of the one
imaginary square or rectangle which would completely enclose all the letters,
parts or symbols of a sign.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-2.1)
§ 153.04 SPECIAL SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this chapter, if an
establishment has frontage on two or more streets, each side having such
frontage shall be considered separately for purposes of determining compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. However, the area allowance for signs
shall not be aggregated so as to permit such establishment to display on any
one frontage a greater area of signs than would be permitted by application of
the formula set forth above.
   (B)   The side of an establishment adjacent to an off-street parking area
shall not be deemed frontage unless the establishment has no other frontage.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-2.2)
§ 153.05 SIGNS TO BE NON-HAZARDOUS, WELL MAINTAINED.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free access or egress from any door, window, fire escape or driveway.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner that it
interferes with, obstructs the view of or is likely to be confused with any
authorized traffic-control device.
   (C)   Every sign shall be designed and constructed in conformity with any
applicable provisions of the adopted Building Code.
   (D)   Every sign and appurtenance shall be maintained in a neat and
attractive condition by its owner. The sign supports shall be kept painted to
prevent rust or deterioration.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-3)
§ 153.06 ILLUMINATION.
   Illumination of signs is permitted, subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   No sign shall employ red, yellow or green lights in such a manner as
to confuse or interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No sign other than those providing time and temperature information
shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or any other illuminating
device which has a changing light intensity, brightness or color; provided,
however, that, this provision shall not apply to any message on any
electronically-operated, changeable sign.
   (C)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be shaded, shielded or
directed so that it creates neither a nuisance to adjacent property, nor a
traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   A NON-CONFORMING SIGN means any lawfully erected sign or billboard that does
not conform to one or more provisions of this chapter or any amendment thereto.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-5)
§ 153.08 RESTRICTIONS.
   Any non-conforming sign, as defined in §
153.07 of this chapter, that does not pose an imminent peril to life or
property may lawfully remain subject to all the restrictions on the
enlargement, alteration or relocation, or reconstruction of non-conforming
structures set forth in §
153.07 of this chapter; provided, as follows:
   (A)   Merely changing the message displayed on a non-conforming sign shall
not be construed as a prohibited alteration; and
   (B)   Whenever any sign is non-conforming solely because it is appurtenant
to a non- conforming commercial/industrial use located in the agricultural
district or in any residential district, said sign shall be treated in the same
manner as it would be if it were appurtenant to a commercial/industrial use
located in any business district or in the industrial district.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-6)
§ 153.09 STRICTLY PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Except as specifically noted otherwise, henceforth, the following signs and
street graphics are strictly prohibited throughout the city:
   (A)   Mobile/portable marquees;
   (B)   Signs attached to trees, fences or public utility poles, other than
warning signs posted by government officials or public utilities;
   (C)   Defunct signs, including the posts or other supports therefor that
advertise or identify an activity, business, product or service no longer
conducted on the premises where such sign is located; and
   (D)   Roof-mounted signs.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-7)
§ 153.10 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ANY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any sign or other street graphic enumerated below that complies with
the indicated requirements is permitted in any district of the city.
   (B)   Such signs or street graphics shall not be debited against the
displaying establishment’s sign area allowance:
      (1)   Construction signs identifying the architects, engineers,
contractors and other individuals or firms involved with the construction, and/
or announcing the character or purpose of the building, but not advertising any
product: such signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area, shall be confined
to the site of the construction and shall be removed within 14 days after the
intended use of the project has begun;
      (2)   Real estate signs, indicating the sale, rental or lease of the
premises on which they are located: such signs on residential property shall
not exceed six square feet; on other property, such signs shall not exceed 16
square feet. Not more than one real estate sign per street front shall be
erected on any lot. Such signs shall be removed within seven days of the sale,
rental or lease;
      (3)   Political signs, announcing candidates seeking public/political
office and/or political issues and other pertinent information: not more than
one such sign shall be erected on any lot or premises. In any agricultural
district, and in any residential district, political signs shall not exceed
eight square feet; in other districts, such signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet. Political signs shall be removed within seven days after the election to
which they pertain, by the party responsible for their erection;
      (4)   Garage sale signs, advertising a garage or yard sale to be held on
private residential property: such signs shall not exceed four square feet, and
shall not be posted for longer than five days;
      (5)   Public interest signs and street banners, publicizing a charitable
or non-profit event of general public interest: in the agricultural district,
and in any residential district, public interest signs shall not exceed 32
square feet. Public interest signs and street banners shall be permitted only
for 60 days before and seven days after the event;
      (6)   Governmental, public, and directional signs: such as traffic-
control signs; railroad crossing signs; legal notices; signs indicating the
location of underground cables; no trespassing signs; no parking signs; signs
indicating the entrances and exits of parking lots; signs indicating the
location of public telephones; restrooms and the like; and so forth;
      (7)   Institutional signs identifying a public, charitable or religious
institution: such signs shall be located on the premises of such institution,
shall not obstruct the vision of motorists and shall not exceed 24 square feet;
      (8)   Integral signs carved into stone or inlaid so as to become part of
the building, and containing such information as date of erection, name of
building and memorial tributes;
      (9)   Home occupation signs, identifying only the name and occupation of
the residents: home occupation signs shall not be illuminated, and shall not
exceed four square feet;
      (10)   Subdivision entrance signs, identifying a residential subdivision
or apartment complex: such signs shall contain no commercial advertising and
shall not exceed 20 square feet;
      (11)   Permanent house numbers and/or permanent name of occupant signs
located on the lot to which the sign applies: such signs shall not exceed two
square feet for single-family dwelling, nor six square feet for multiple-family
dwellings; and
      (12)   Signs located in the interior of any building or within an
enclosed lobby or court of any building or group of buildings; provided, such
signs are designed and located to be viewed exclusively by the patrons or
residents of such buildings.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-8)
§ 153.11 AGRICULTURAL; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No sign other than those listed in §
153.10 of this chapter shall be erected in the agricultural district or in any
residential district.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-9)
§ 153.12 BUSINESS; INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No establishment located in any business district or in the industrial
district shall display on any street front a total area of sign in excess of
the allowance derived by application of the formula set forth in §§
153.02 and
153.10 of this chapter.
   (B)   Additionally, signs in any business district or in the industrial
district shall conform to the requirements indicated herein.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10)
§ 153.13 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs shall not remain in place for a period of more than 30 days,
except when the Zoning Administrator extends the time period for an additional
30 days. Any further time extension shall thereafter be applied for through
Zoning Board of Appeals and the Board may grant such time extension as seems
reasonable and necessary in compliance with this chapter. A permit is required
for all temporary signs.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-11)
TYPES OF SIGNS
§ 153.25 FLUSH-MOUNTED SIGNS.
   No flush-mounted (wall) sign shall:
   (A)   Project more than 18 inches from the wall or surface to which it is
attached; or
   (B)   Extend above the roof line of the building to which it is attached.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10.1)
§ 153.26 WINDOW SIGNS.
   Signs permanently mounted in display windows shall not be debited against
the sign area allowance of the particular establishment.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10.2)
§ 153.27 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   No establishment shall display more than one projecting sign on any
street front.
   (B)   No projecting sign shall:
      (1)   Project above the roof line of the building to which it is
attached;
      (2)   Extend below a point eight feet above the ground or pavement;
      (3)   Project over a driveway or beyond the curbline of any public
street;
      (4)   Project more than four feet from the building to which it is
attached; or
      (5)   Extend to a point above 12 feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10.3)
§ 153.28 CANOPY OR MARQUEE SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs mounted flush on any canopy or marquee shall be considered
flush-mounted (wall) signs and shall meet the requirements of §
153.25 of this chapter.
   (B)   Signs suspended beneath a canopy or marquee shall be considered
projecting signs and shall meet the requirements of §
153.27 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10.4)
§ 153.29 FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   No establishment shall display more than one freestanding sign on any
street front.
   (B)   Freestanding signs, whether mounted on the ground or post-mounted,
shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   No part of any freestanding sign shall intrude into any public
right-of-way. No part of any freestanding sign that extends below a point ten
feet above the ground or pavement shall be located closer than ten feet from
the public right-of-way line.
      (2)   The area of any freestanding sign, calculated in accordance with §
153.03 of this chapter shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (3)   When attached to its structural supports, no part of any
freestanding sign shall extend more than 35 feet above the ground or pavement.
      (4)   The length or width of any freestanding sign shall not exceed 12
feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10.5)
§ 153.30 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Billboards and other off-premises advertising signs are strictly
prohibited in every district, except the Industrial District.
   (B)   No billboard shall:
      (1)   Be stacked on top of another billboard;
      (2)   Be located closer than 25 feet to any lot line or any public right-
of-way;
      (3)   Be located closer than 500 feet from any other billboard on the
same side of the roadway;
      (4)   Extend more than ten feet above the ground or pavement; or
      (5)   Exceed 80 square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10.6) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
CHAPTER 154: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Department established
   
154.002   Committee on Streets
   
154.003   Undermining
   
154.004   Open doors
   
154.005   Stairway; railing
   
154.006   Closing street
   
154.007   Signs across street
   
154.008   Obstructing street
   
154.009   Rain water drains
   
154.010   Building materials in street
   
154.011   Merchandise on public street
   
154.012   Encroachments
   
154.013   Posting bills
   
154.014   Signs on poles
   
154.015   Barbed-wire fences
   
154.016   Burning on public streets
   
154.017   Grass mowing
Sidewalks
   
154.030   Repairing sidewalks and the like
   
154.031   Vehicles and skateboards on sidewalks
   
154.032   Deposits on sidewalks and streets
   
154.033   Injury to new pavements
Street Improvements
   
154.045   Sidewalks
   
154.046   Curbs and gutters
   
154.047   Storm sewers
Culverts
   
154.060   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
154.061   Permit for culvert
   
154.062   Application for permit
   
154.063   Termination of permit
   
154.064   Type of culvert
   
154.065   Cost of installation
   
154.066   Backfill cost
   
154.067   Replacement cost
Driveways
   
154.080   Permits required
   
154.081   Grade surface
   
154.082   Specifications
   
154.083   Breaking curb; bond required
   
154.084   Repair
Snow Removal
   
154.100   Definitions
   
154.101   Snow and ice to be removed from sidewalks by private persons
   
154.102   Depositing of snow and ice restricted
   
154.103   Mayor’s authority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of the municipal government
which shall be known as the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall embrace the Street Committee, the Superintendent and the
employees.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall serve as ex-officio officer.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-1)
§ 154.002 COMMITTEE ON STREETS.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Street Department. It shall ascertain the
needs and conditions thereof and shall, from time to time, report the same to
the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-2)
§ 154.003 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the city or belonging to any private person.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.004 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open, any door, any gate or the
grating of any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her, on any
street, alley or sidewalk in the city for any purpose, except the taking in and
removing goods; and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall warn
passers-by of the danger.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.005 STAIRWAY; RAILING.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk and, in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.006 CLOSING STREET.
   (A)   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street,
alley or public place requires it, the Mayor or Director of Public Works may
order any street, alley or public place temporarily closed to traffic and the
placing of signs indicating that the street, alley or public place is closed by
order of the Mayor or Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Whenever such signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon
or cross such street, alley or public place, or in any manner, destroy, deface
or remove any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.007 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner over any or across
any street, alley or sidewalk in the city, unless he or she has written
approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-17
§ 154.008 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any material on any street which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any grass
clippings, or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or
any other articles such as glass which may cause injury to any person, animal
or property.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the city, any debris,
materials or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to exercise a vigilant
supervision over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit
or responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 154.009 RAIN WATER DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain or any drainage pipe in either a natural or human-made ditch
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Applications for such permits
shall be made to the Billing Clerk or Director of Public Works and shall be
accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of such drainage pipe, the
premises to be served and the specification of such pipe to be installed. Such
application shall be referred to the Director of Public Works and no such
permit shall be issued unless he or she shall have found that the city code
would be complied with by the installation of such storm water drain or
drainage pipe and, that the installation of such storm water drain or drainage
pipe would not interfere with, overload, obstruct or otherwise adversely affect
the existing storm water drainage system within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the city and it
shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-10) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.010 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may move any obstruction on any street or
sidewalk of the city, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefor to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after
being notified.
   (B)   (1)   Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving
any lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such
length of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not
extend to more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street or alley
adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall always be left free and
unobstructed.
      (2)   At night, such person shall keep an illuminated warning light on
such material.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-11) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 154.011 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale; or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements, unless permission is granted by the City Council or Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-12) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 154.012 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.013 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of such curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk,
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door or gate.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.014 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and/or fire
alarm pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk,
street, alley or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.015 BARBED-WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to persons, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within three
feet of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least eight feet above the level of
such public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.016 BURNING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.017 GRASS MOWING.
   Property owners and/or their tenants shall be jointly and separately
responsible for mowing the grass or weeds between the property lines and the
adjoining street surfaces. The height of the grass or weeds shall not exceed
eight inches.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 154.030 REPAIRING SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever any sidewalk, pavement or cellar door on the same becomes worn out
or out of repair, or is torn up or broken and uneven, it shall be the duty of
the Director of Public Works to immediately report such fact to the Mayor or
Street and Alley Committee, and upon verbal or written order from either of
them, to give notice to the party owning the adjoining property to repair such
sidewalk or cellar door without delay.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-3) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 154.031 VEHICLES AND SKATEBOARDS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any skateboard or motor vehicle on or over any
sidewalk, except in crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.032 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk, any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided that, the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and, provided that, no such article shall remain on
such walk for more than 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.033 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.045 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade
of the city and in all cases where no grade is established, any person building
a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the Director
of Public Works.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay or construct
any sidewalk along any property in the city or along any of the streets, alleys
or public highways thereon, without first obtaining permission from the
Director of Public Works to do so.
   (C)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the City Council
approves the request, the property owner shall pay the cost of the concrete,
and the sidewalk shall be constructed by the city. The cost of construction
shall not include any engineering fees; these shall be paid by the city.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 33-5-1) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 154.046 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Request in writing. Any person owning property within the city who
desires to have new curbs and gutters constructed along the street adjoining
his or her premises shall file a request with the Director of Public Works,
giving the location of the property and the length of the curbs and gutters
requested.
   (B)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the City Council
approves the request, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of the
construction and, thereafter, the curb and gutter will be constructed by the
city. The cost of construction shall not include any engineering fees as these
shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Approval by City Council. The approval of the request for construction
of curbs and gutters by the City Council shall be dependent upon the approval
of funds, priority of projects and continuity of construction for the best
benefit of the city as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 33-5-2) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-11
§ 154.047 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of storm water sewers. Storm water sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, ground waters, roof
leaders or storm waters, rain waters or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Director of Public Works shall supervise all
connections made to the public storm sewer system or excavations for the
purposes of installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public storm water
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Superintendent or his
or her designated representative.
   (D)   Requirements: use of storm water sewers. Where a storm water sewer is
accessible in a street, alley or easement to a building or premises abutting
thereon, the surface drains, ground waters, roof leaders or storm waters shall
be discharged into the storm water sewer unless otherwise authorized by the
city. Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any substance
other than surface waters, ground waters, roof waters or storm waters be
permitted to flow into or be connected to the storm water sewer; and no
sanitary sewer shall be connected to the storm water sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 33-5-3) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
CULVERTS
§ 154.060 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer in any public
street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.061 PERMIT FOR CULVERT.
   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any culvert without
first obtaining a permit from the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-2) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.062 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring a permit to install or replace any culvert shall file an
application therefor with the Director of Public Works upon a form to be
provided for that purpose. The application and the permit issued pursuant
thereto shall be on the same form, which shall be substantially as outlined in
Appendix B in the ordinance codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-3) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 154.063 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   All such permits shall terminate upon the expiration of one year following
the date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-4)
§ 154.064 TYPE OF CULVERT.
   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open ditches.
The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be reinforced
concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of 16
gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of
16 gauge, asbestos cement storm drain pipe (Class IV), or of such other
material as determined by the Director of Public Works, depending upon the
conditions existing. The culverts shall be of such size, installed at the grade
and constructed with couplings as determined by the Director of Public Works.
The person desiring the culvert shall purchase a culvert as provided herein and
shall have it delivered on the site. The city shall install the culvert.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 154.065 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in such form and manner as
the Director of Public Works determines necessary depending on the conditions
existing.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-6) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 154.066 BACKFILL COST.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, provide and place such backfill material as the Director of Public
Works determines necessary to complete the project.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-7) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 154.067 REPLACEMENT COST.
   The expense of replacing any culvert shall be borne by the person making
application for the permit to install the same.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
DRIVEWAYS
§ 154.080 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across
any sidewalk in the city without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Director of Public
Works and shall be accompanied by the fee required.
   (C)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use, or for
the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served,
shall be issued, except upon the order of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-1) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.081 GRADE SURFACE.
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp
depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and hazardous to
pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk or be other than level.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.082 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications required by the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-4) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 154.083 BREAKING CURB; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a permit can be issued to break a curb in the city for the
installation of a driveway or any other purpose, a bond or cash in the amount
of $100 is required to be posted with the City Billing Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-5) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 154.084 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-2
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 154.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day not a Sunday or a national holiday.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. This shall include all those areas zoned for business,
commercial and industrial purposes in Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances and
accompanying map as amended or other applicable regulations.
   BUSINESS HOURS. The hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any business
day.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-1)
§ 154.101 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED FROM SIDEWALKS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Every person in charge or control of any building or lot of land
within the city fronting or abutting on a paved sidewalk, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall remove and clear away, or cause to
be removed and cleared away, snow and ice from a path from so much of a
sidewalk as is in front or abuts on said building or lot of land. Snow and ice
shall be so removed from sidewalks in all business districts within the city by
24 hours after cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain. The path
required to be cleared in the business district shall be six feet in width, or
the whole width of the sidewalk, whichever is smaller.
   (B)   However, in the event snow and ice on a sidewalk has become so hard
that it cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the
person charged with its removal shall, within the time mentioned in division
(A) above, cause enough sand, cinders or other abrasive to be put on the
sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably safe; and shall then, as soon
thereafter as weather permits, cause a path on said sidewalk of at least six
feet in width to be thoroughly cleaned.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.102 DEPOSITING OF SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and ice on or
against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, roadway or loading or unloading
areas of a public transportation system; except that, snow and ice may be
windrowed on curbs incident to the cleaning of sidewalks in business districts.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 154.103 MAYOR’S AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized on behalf of the city to cause sidewalks to
be cleared upon the request of the person or entity charged with snow and ice
removal. Any person or entity whose sidewalk is cleared pursuant to this
section shall reimburse the city for the costs of such clearing.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-4)
CHAPTER 155: EXCAVATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Permit required
   
155.02   Applications
   
155.03   Fees
   
155.04   Bond
   
155.05   Deposit
   
155.06   Inspections
   
155.07   Location records
   
155.08   Liability of persons to city for damage
Procedures
   
155.20   Manner of excavating
   
155.21   Sidewalks
   
155.22   Restoring surface
   
155.23   Supervision
   
155.24   Tunneling
   
155.25   Protective measures and routing of traffic
   
155.26   Clearance for vital structures
   
155.27   Protection of traffic
   
155.28   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
155.29   Abandonment of substructures
   
155.30   Protection of adjoining property
   
155.31   Placement of excavated material
   
155.32   Cleanup
   
155.33   Protection of watercourses
   
155.34   Breaking through pavement
   
155.35   Depth of structures
   
155.36   Backfilling
   
155.37   Trenches in pipe laying
   
155.38   Prompt completion of work
   
155.39   Urgent work
   
155.40   Emergency action
   
155.41   Noise, dust and debris
   
155.42   Preservation of monuments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the city
without having obtained a permit, as is herein required, or without complying
with the provisions of this chapter or in violation of or variance from the
terms of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the
purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work; and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
for which the work is being done, and it shall also contain an agreement that
the applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to
be done.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-2)
§ 155.03 FEES.
   The fee for such permit(s) shall be as follows; however, the City Council
may waive the fees in this section:
   (A)   Excavation in asphalt or portland cement concrete pavement or surface:
$100;
   (B)   Excavation in brick pavement or surface: $100;
   (C)   Excavation in oil treated street surface: $100; and
   (D)   Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface: $100.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-3) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 155.04 BOND.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $50,000, conditioned to indemnify the
city for any loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such
tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to
do business in the state as a surety company. The City Council may waive the
bond provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-4)
§ 155.05 DEPOSIT.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $250 if no pavement is
involved, and $1,000 if the excavation is a paved area, to insure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any. From this deposit
shall be deducted the expense of the city of relaying the surface of the ground
or pavement and of making the refill if this is done by the city or at its
expense and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without interest
after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface or
pavement is restored. The City Council may waive the deposit in this section.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-5)
§ 155.06 INSPECTIONS.
   The Street Superintendent shall make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary in the enforcement of this chapter. The Superintendent shall have the
authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as
may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-29)
§ 155.07 LOCATION RECORDS.
   Every public utility, after the enactment of this chapter, shall maintain
records showing the location of all of its underground facilities, except
relatively minor facilities which connect a particular premises or building to
a facility serving more than one premises or building and except oil or gas-
gathering or field lines. Every public utility shall maintain equipment which
can locate such facilities in the field.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-30)
§ 155.08 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO CITY FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this code of ordinances and any
person or property in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so
guilty of such violation shall be liable to the city in relation thereto, and
no prosecution or other proceeding by the city of such person for any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the city for
such damages.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-31)
PROCEDURES
§ 155.20 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and,
in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the city department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed. No unnecessary damage or injury shall be
done to any tree, shrub or the roots thereof.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.21 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Street
Superintendent and shall not be open for use until approved by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-7)
§ 155.22 RESTORING SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley or other public place in the city shall restore
the surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills
shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation
shall be left in the ground.
   (B)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface re-laid by the applicant in compliance with the
regulations of the city and under the supervision of the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-8)
§ 155.23 SUPERVISION.
   The Streets and Alley Committee shall, from time to time, inspect or cause
to be inspected, all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley or other place in the city to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this code or ordinances. Notice shall be given to him or her at
least ten hours before the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation
commences.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-9)
§ 155.24 TUNNELING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the city which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement; provided that, upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.25 PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or
upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for the safety of the general public.
   (A)   Barriers, warning signs and lights shall conform to the requirements
of all applicable provisions of this code or ordinances. Warning lights shall
be electrical markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from
sunset of each day to sunrise of the next day.
   (B)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not to replace
light sources.
   (C)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as nearly normal as
possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public. When traffic
conditions permit, the Street Superintendent may, by written approval, permit
the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period of time
prescribed by him or her if, in his or her opinion, it is necessary. Such
written approval may require that the permittee give notification to various
public agencies and to the general public. In such cases, such written approval
shall not be valid until such notice is given.
   (D)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.26 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.27 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle traffic
at all street intersections where possible and safe crossing for pedestrians at
intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made across any
public street, alley or sidewalk adequate crossing shall be maintained for
vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street is not wide enough to hold the
excavated material without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at
least one-half of the sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk
line.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.28 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written consent of the Street Superintendent and the owner of the facility.
If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by
its owner. The facility owned by the city shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work is borne by the permittee. The cost of
moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee
unless other arrangements are made with the person owning the facility. The
permittee shall support and protect, by timbers or otherwise, all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and
protect them under, over, along or across said work. The permittee shall secure
approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility.
   (B)   In case of any said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should
be damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or devices
are to be considered as part of a substructure, the permittee shall promptly
notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the
agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged
to the permittee. It is the intent of this section that the permittee shall
assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of
liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will
be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the
owning utility. The city shall not be made a party to any action because of
this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.29 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, file with the Street Superintendent a statement in writing giving
in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If such abandoned
substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in the way of an
installation of the city or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the city or any other public body.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.30 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his, her or its own expense,
preserve and protect from injury, any adjoining property by providing proper
foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where, in the
protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private property for
the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall
obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such purpose and, if
he or she cannot obtain such consent, the Street Superintendent may authorize
him or her to enter the private premises solely for the purpose of making the
property safe.
   (B)   At the permittee’s own expense, all buildings, walls, fences or other
property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work shall
be shored up and protected, and the permittee shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from failure to
properly protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be necessary for the
permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be reseeded or the
sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been
backfilled as required in this chapter. All construction and maintenance work
shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth and
debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed before
such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any trees or
shrubs which exist in parking street areas without first obtaining the consent
of the appropriate city department or official having supervision of such
property.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.31 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as to eliminate
danger to those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets
and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Street Superintendent shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the Street
Superintendent, whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
Street Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.32 CLEANUP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work.
All clean-up operations at the location of such excavation shall be
accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Street Superintendent. From time to time as may be ordered
by the Street Superintendent and in any event, immediately after completion of
the work, the permittee shall, at his, her or its own expense, clean up and
remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from the work and
upon failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by
the Street Superintendent, said work may be done by the Superintendent and the
cost thereof charged to the permittee and the permittee shall also be liable
for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.33 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the full
depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the face of
such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting street,
an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained. The
permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water, muck, silt,
slickings or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting from sluicing
or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its
failure to so provide.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-19)
§ 155.34 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Street
Superintendent when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch in depth; however, depths
greater than one inch may be required by the Street Superintendent when
circumstances warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendent
outside the limits of the excavation over cave-outs, overbreaks and small
floating sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Street Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and overbreaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Street Superintendent.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.35 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without written permission of the Street
Superintendent, install any substructure, except manholes, vaults, valve
casings, culverts and catch basins at a vertical distance less than:
      (1)   Streets. Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If said flow line is not established, then the depth shall be
at a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street;
      (2)   Parkway.
         (a)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when said substructure parallels the parkway.
         (b)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below
the top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
      (3)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to
maintain said specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in said substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public street.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.36 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil shall
be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the City
Council. Broken pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not be
used in the backfill.
   (B)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. Such backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation unless otherwise specified. The Street Superintendent may
require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or
registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or
her opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In
order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the City
Council. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-22)
§ 155.37 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations; however, at night no more than
50 feet may be open with proper barriers.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.38 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-24)
§ 155.39 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Street Superintendent shall have full power to order, at
the time the permit is granted, that a crew of persons and adequate facilities
be employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation
work may be completed as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-25)
§ 155.40 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs; provided
that, the person making such excavation shall apply to the Street
Superintendent for such a permit on the first working day after such work is
commenced.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-26)
§ 155.41 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall not use, except in case of emergency as otherwise
provided herein, any tool, appliance or equipment producing noise of sufficient
volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the neighboring property.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.42 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey benchmark within the city shall not be removed or disturbed or
caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in writing
from the City Council to do so. Permission to remove or disturb such monuments,
reference points or benchmarks shall only be granted upon condition that the
person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to the
proper replacement of the monument by the city.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23
CHAPTER 156: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
156.01   Planting
   
156.02   Planting trees in right-of-way
   
156.03   Removal
   
156.04   Injury
   
156.05   Advertisements or notices
   
156.06   Dangerous trees
   
156.07   Wires
   
156.08   Gas pipes
   
156.09   Depositing of tree-trimming, brush and other landscaping waste
Tree Code
   
156.20   Title
   
156.21   Definitions
   
156.22   Purpose; intent
   
156.23   Tree Commission
   
156.24   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
156.25   Streets and city right-of-way
   
156.26   Tree topping
   
156.27   Pruning; corner clearance
   
156.28   Public utility companies
Vegetation Control
   
156.40   Tree trimming permit required
   
156.41   Specimen trees or trees of special significance
   
156.42   Chemical use
 
   
156.99   Penalty
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 156.01 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Street Superintendent and
shall be referred by him or her to the City Council. All trees and shrubs so
planted shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-1) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.02 PLANTING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs or other plants on
the right-of-way of any public street, including the space on the right-of-way
between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-2) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.03 REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or
portion thereof in any street, parkway or other public place without having
first secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Street
Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the City Council before
permission shall be granted.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-3) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.04 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in such public
place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-4) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.05 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-5) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.06 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the municipality at a height less than eight feet or in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which such
tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim or remove
any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall
be done away with.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-6) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.07 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the City Council.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Street Superintendent so that no injury shall
be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their conduct.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-7) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.08 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-8) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.09 DEPOSITING OF TREE-TRIMMING, BRUSH AND OTHER LANDSCAPING WASTE.
   Commercial tree trimmers and individuals who remove trees, limbs, brush and
other landscaping waste for hire shall not deposit such waste on the property
of the city. Commercial tree trimmers and individuals who remove trees, limbs,
brush and other landscaping waste for hire which violate this section shall now
be subject to punishment under the violation portion of this chapter. The fee
schedule shall be as dictated in the enforcement section of this chapter. The
enforcement section of this chapter is now incorporated into the depositing of
tree-trimming, brush and other landscaping waste sections in this chapter.
(Ord. 13-594, passed 8-14-2013) Penalty, see §
156.99
TREE CODE
§ 156.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Tree Code”.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-1)
§ 156.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY-OWNED PROPERTY. Property located within the city limits either owned by
the city in fee simple or impliedly or expressly dedicated to the city.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of
land.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying within the city right-of-way for all streets, avenues, alleys or ways
within the city.
   TREES, SHRUBS AND OTHER PLANTS. All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except
lawn grass or flowers less than 24 inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-2)
§ 156.22 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the
planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within the
city.
   (B)   It is the intent of the City Council that the terms of this subchapter
shall be construed to promote the following:
      (1)   The planting, maintenance, restoration and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs and other plants within the city; and
      (2)   The protection of the residents of the city from personal injury
and property damage, and the protection of the city from property damage caused
or threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or removal of trees, shrubs
or other plants located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-3)
§ 156.23 TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Commission, which
shall consist of five members, including one city resident with a degree and/or
experience in tree and plant horticulture, the Public Works Director, a
representative of the Park Board and two residents to be appointed by the
Mayor.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Commission to investigate,
counsel, update annually and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting and removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs along city streets and other public places. Such plan will be
presented annually to the City Council and, upon acceptance, shall constitute
the official comprehensive tree plan for the city.
   (C)   The city’s Tree Commission shall determine, with the assistance of any
experts the Commission wishes to consult, a list of street tree species for the
city. The list shall be used to select appropriate trees to be planted on city
rights-of-way and shall become part of the overall comprehensive tree plan for
the city.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-4)
§ 156.24 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street trees shall be planted within 35 feet of any street corner
measured from the point of the nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No
street trees shall be planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-5) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.25 STREETS AND CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and other shrubs within the right-of-way of all streets, avenues,
alleys, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public
safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public ways
and grounds. The city may remove or cause to be removed any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to the sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, waterlines or other
public improvements, or is infested with any injurious fungus, insect or other
pests if such trees are located on city rights-of-way or property.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-6)
§ 156.26 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to top any street tree,
park tree or other tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as severe
cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the
tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under
utility lines or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, may be exempt from this section.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-7) Penalty, see §
156.99
 
§ 156.27 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches do not obstruct the light
from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection so that
there is a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs, which constitute a danger to the safety of the public.
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight or interferes with the visibility of any traffic-control device or
sign.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-8)
§ 156.28 PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to exempt public utility
companies or their agents from any of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-9)
VEGETATION CONTROL
§ 156.40 TREE TRIMMING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Tree trimming shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this subchapter.
   (A)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
   (B)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-17)
§ 156.41 SPECIMEN TREES OR TREES OF SPECIAL SIGNIFICANCE.
   The city may require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen
trees or trees of special significance. The required measures may consist of
higher poles, side arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-17)
§ 156.42 CHEMICAL USE.
   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be permitted on
rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only practical method of
vegetation control.
(Prior Code, § 33-10-17)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
excepting §§
156.40 through
156.42 of this chapter, or who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant
hereto, upon being found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $200 for each separate offense, each day during which any violation of
the provisions of this chapter, excepting §§
156.40 through
156.42 of this chapter, shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense.
If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this chapter, excepting
§§
156.40 through
156.42 of this chapter, the injury, mutilation or death of a tree, shrub or
other plant located on city-owned property is caused, the cost of repair or
replacement of such tree, shrub or other plant shall be borne by the party in
violation. The replacement value of trees and shrubs shall be determined in
accordance with the latest revision of A Guide to the Professional Evaluation
of Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs and Evergreens, as published by the
International Society of Arboriculture.
(Prior Code, § 37-1-10)
CHAPTER 157: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Base flood elevation
   
157.04   Duties of the building official
   
157.05   Development permit
   
157.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
157.07   Subdivision and other development requirements
   
157.08   Variances
   
157.09   Disclaimer of liability
   
157.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Protected Buildings
   
157.25   Requirements
   
157.26   Alternative methods
   
157.27   Installed for 180 days
   
157.28   Non-residential buildings
   
157.29   Flood-proofing
   
157.30   Exceptions
 
   
157.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2 in order to
accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To recognize the environmental sensitivity of floodplains and to
encourage their protection from inappropriate growth and development.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-1)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Mayor or some person appointed by him or her to execute
this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
157.03 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings. The
term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on
a site for more than 180 days. (Note: the NFIP requires that references be made
to “manufactured homes” rather than “mobile homes”.)
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to real estate including, but not limited
to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building, or any
addition to a building, exceeding 70 square feet in floor area;
      (2)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
      (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days;
      (4)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts
or similar projects;
      (5)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
      (6)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or
other alterations of the ground surface;
      (7)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
      (8)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT. This does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar practices that
do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency. (Note: FEMA regulations can be
found at 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 79, effective 10-1-1986 (revised 10-1-
1990).)
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). They are synonymous. Those
lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are subject to inundation by the
base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the city are generally identified as such on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated 3-5-1976. The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of
unincorporated Greene County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city or that may be annexed into the city are generally identified as
such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared for Greene County by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated 8-5-1985.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural or non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood-proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain. (Note: NFIP
regulations require protection to or above the base flood elevation. One foot
of freeboard is recommended by IDOT/DWR. A municipality may use higher
freeboard requirements if it desires.)
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of Coates and Link Creeks shall be
delineated on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map prepared by FEMA and dated 3-5-
1976. The FLOODWAYS for each of the remaining floodplains of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
   IDOT/DWR. Illinois Department of Transportation/Division of Water Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either:
      (1)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      (2)   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   This is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   TRAVEL TRAILER or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use and not as a permanent dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2)
§ 157.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood elevation data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency for approval. (See: NFIP requirement: 44
C.F.R. § 60.3(b).)
   (A)   The base flood elevation for each of the floodplains delineated as an
“A Zone” on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city shall be according to the
best data available from federal, state or other sources. Should no other data
exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine base flood
elevations.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Greene County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on
the 100-year flood profiles of the Flood Insurance Study of Greene County
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-3)
§ 157.04 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
157.05 of this chapter;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
157.06 of this chapter;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §§
157.25 through
157.30 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the “as-built”
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or flood-proof certificate;
(See: NFIP requirements: 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(b)(5)(iii) and 59.22(a)(9)(iii).)
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
157.07 of this chapter;
      (5)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
157.08 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
      (6)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
157.99 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (7)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (8)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request
about   permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (9)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
and
      (10)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-4)
§ 157.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in the floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Application documents. The application for development permit shall
be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basements) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §§
157.25 through
157.30 of this chapter.
      (2)   Elevation comparisons. Upon receipt of an application for
development permit, the Zoning Administrator shall compare the elevation of the
site to the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be
shown by survey data to have been higher than the base flood elevation as of
the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification is not in
the floodplain and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development
site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of
the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification. (Note: although
survey data may show the development site to be entirely above the base flood
elevation, a letter of map amendment (LOMA) will still be required to remove
the site from the mapped floodplain for insurance requirements.)
(Prior Code, § 14-1-5)
§ 157.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within the city’s floodplains, the following standards shall apply: (NFIP
requirements: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(4)(i), (c)(10) and (d)(3))
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall
be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety.
      (2)   The following specific development activities shall be considered
as meeting this requirement:
         (a)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
         (b)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
         (c)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
         (d)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of
IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
         (e)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
         (f)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the
conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
         (g)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
         (h)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
         (i)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 11; and
         (j)   Any development determined by IDOT/DWR to be located entirely in
a flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDOT/DWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDOT/DWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary to approve
a revision of the regulatory map and base flood elevation.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 615 ILCS 5/5 through 5/29a
§ 157.07 SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. The City Council shall take into account flood hazards, to
the extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land
management use and development.
   (B)   Data required.
      (1)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
157.06 and
157.25 through
157.30 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
         (a)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain
(where the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the
applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
         (b)   The boundary of the floodway when available; and
         (c)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that
the proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface
waters in accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (C)   Health standards.
      (1)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements of §§
157.06 and
157.25 through
157.30 of this chapter, the following standards apply.
         (a)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or
storing chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants
or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation
unless such materials are stored in a storage tank or flood- proofed building
constructed according to the requirements of §§
157.25 through
157.30 of this chapter.
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste
disposal systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation are water-tight.
         (c)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so
as not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Note: this
section sets minimum subdivision design review and recording standards when
subdivisions are located within a floodplain. It also provides guidance for
other activities defined as “development” which may occur in a floodplain.
(NFIP requirement: 44 C.F.R. § 60.2(c))
   (D)   NFIP requirement. 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(3) only applies to subdivisions
greater than five acres or 50 lots.
   (E)   New plats. All new plats recorded must show the location of any
floodplains and must be signed, sealed and certified by a professional land
surveyor as per the requirements of Pub. Act No. 85-0267.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-8)
§ 157.08 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board for a
variance. The Zoning Board shall review the applicant’s request for a variance
and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council. The City Council may
attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to
further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   Requirements for variance. No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other required local, state and federal permits have been
obtained. (65 ILCS 5/11-13-4 and 5/11-13-5 establishes specific municipal
zoning variance criteria.)
   (B)   Notification of applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall notify an
applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of the building
protection standards of §§
157.25 through
157.30 of this chapter would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 for
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability. (Note: the Standard Flood Insurance Policy permits an insurance
adjustor to not pay for damage that was caused by something the owner did which
increased the hazard to the property. Section 1316 of the National Flood
Insurance Act authorizes local officials to request denial of flood insurance
for buildings in violation of local floodplain codes.)
   (C)   Granting. Variances to the building protection requirements of §§
157.25 through
157.30 of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair
or alteration of a site or building included on the National Register of
Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Places may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements hereof. (Note: communities in
the NFIP are required to maintain a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance, and report them to FEMA. FEMA may review
variances and suspend a community from the NFIP if the review “indicates a
pattern inconsistent with the objectives of sound floodplain management...”)
§ 157.09 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-10)
§ 157.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the City
Council to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program,
including. However, this chapter does not repeal the original ordinance adopted
to achieve eligibility in the Program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate
or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this
chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict
or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.2(B). and 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-
12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2
PROTECTING BUILDINGS
§ 157.25 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
157.06 of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation.
   (B)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building;
      (3)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage); and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
§ 157.26 ALTERNATIVE METHODS.
   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building protection
requirements by one of the following methods: (See NFIP requirements: 44 C.F.R.
§ 60.3(c)(2).)
   (A)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
      (2)    The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot before
compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation before
sloping below the flood protection elevation;
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
      (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse materials; and
      (5)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
   (B)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following: (See:
NFIP requirements: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3) and (c)(5).)
      (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
      (2)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing
and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above
the flood protection elevation;
      (3)   If walls are used, all fully enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by having a minimum of two
permanent openings no more than one foot above grade and providing a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
      (4)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned
in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure
to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating debris;
      (5)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
      (6)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible
pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood protection
elevation; provided, they are water- proofed; and
      (7)   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for
storage of items or materials.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
§ 157.27 INSTALLED FOR 180 DAYS.
   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on site for more than
180 days shall be:
   (A)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
   (B)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the state’s Mobile
Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm.
Code 870.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
§ 157.28 NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   Non-residential buildings may be structurally flood-proofed (in lieu of
elevation); provided, a registered professional engineer certifies that:
   (A)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water- tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
   (B)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and impact
from debris and ice; and
   (C)   Flood-proofing measures will be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
§ 157.29 FLOOD-PROOFING.
   For the purposes of this section, in the case of garages or sheds
constructed ancillary to a residential use, wet flood-proofing meeting the
following conditions shall be sufficient:
   (A)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
   (B)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into workshops, greenhouses, living areas
and the like;
   (C)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway;
   (D)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory to
an existing principal structure on the same lot;
   (E)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage as provided in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93;
   (F)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, electrical and the
like must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
   (G)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every square foot of floor area as provided in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-93;
   (H)   The garage or shed must be less than $7,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less than 600 square feet;
   (I)   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning;
   (J)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation;
and
   (K)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner advised
of the flood insurance requirements.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
§ 157.30 EXCEPTIONS.
   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered flood-
proofing for the purpose of this section. (See NFIP requirements: 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(c)(4).)
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon due investigation, the Zoning Administrator may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exist. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (C)   If such owner fails, after ten days’ notice, to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $75, nor more than $750.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-11)
CHAPTER 158: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Title
   
158.002   Purpose
   
158.003   Jurisdiction
   
158.004   Instances when plats will not be required
   
158.005   Interpretation
   
158.006   Disclaimer of liability
   
158.007   Definitions
   
158.008   Plan requirements
   
158.009   Inspection, maintenance and acceptance by city
Preliminary Plats
   
158.020   General procedure
   
158.021   Filing procedure
   
158.022   Information required
   
158.023   Plan Commission action
   
158.024   Review by City Council; time constraints
   
158.025   Rights and privileges of subdivider
Improvement Plans
   
158.040   Submission of plans
   
158.041   Information required
   
158.042   Inspections required
   
158.043   Filing “as-built” records
Assurance for Completion of Required Improvements
   
158.055   Approval of final plat; improvements
   
158.056   Forms of assurance
   
158.057   Amount of bond or deposit
   
158.058   Eligible sureties
   
158.059   Term of assurance; extension
   
158.060   Release of bond/escrow deposit
   
158.061   Failure to complete improvements
Final Plats
   
158.075   City Council approval
   
158.076   Filing, time limits
   
158.077   Information required
   
158.078   Certificates required
   
158.079   Administrative review, advisory report
   
158.080   Action by City Council
   
158.081   Changes in approved final plats
   
158.082   Maintenance of improvements
   
158.083   Vacation of plats
Administrative Procedures
   
158.095   Enforcement officer; duties
   
158.096   Subdivision variances
   
158.097   Review by Plan Commission
   
158.098   Action by City Council
   
158.099   Amendments
   
158.100   Schedule of fees
   
158.101   Fees; time of payment
Design and Improvement Standards
   
158.115   Applicability of subchapter
   
158.116   Suitability for development generally
   
158.117   Conformity with zoning
   
158.118   Access and relationship to street
   
158.119   Reference monuments
Street Design Standards
   
158.130   Plan integration
   
158.131   Right-of-way and pavement widths
   
158.132   Topographical considerations
   
158.133   Through traffic discouraged
   
158.134   Limited access to arterials
   
158.135   Dead-end streets
   
158.136   Intersections
   
158.137   Reverse curves
   
158.138   Improvements to existing streets
   
158.139   When excess right-of-way required
Street Improvement Standards
   
158.150   Developer’s expense
   
158.151   Curb and gutter
   
158.152   Maintenance responsibility
   
158.153   Blocks
   
158.154   Sidewalks
   
158.155   Street lights
   
158.156   Street name signs
Utilities
   
158.170   Utility location and easements required
   
158.171   Utility easements
   
158.172   Drainage easements
   
158.173   Maintenance easements
   
158.174   Potable water required
   
158.175   Fire hydrants
   
158.176   Sanitary sewer compliance
   
158.177   When public system planned
   
158.178   Alternate methods of disposal
Drainage and Storm Sewers
   
158.190   Purpose and intent
   
158.191   Definitions
   
158.192   Applicability
   
158.193   Affidavit of disclosure of property interest
   
158.194   Method of evaluation
   
158.195   Detention of differential runoff
   
158.196   Flows from upstream areas
   
158.197   Facilities in floodplains
   
158.198   Land credit for detention facilities
Design Criteria
   
158.210   General requirements
   
158.211   Other references
   
158.212   Storm water runoff
   
158.213   Hydraulic considerations for detention storage
Plan Commission
   
158.225   Established
   
158.226   Membership
   
158.227   Term of office
   
158.228   Procedure
   
158.229   Powers and duties
   
158.230   Land subdivision or resubdivision and the official map
   
158.231   Improvements
   
158.232   Further purposes
   
158.233   Expenditures
 
   
158.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be referred to as the “Subdivision
Code”.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-1)
§ 158.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-12-5, 5/11-12-8 and 5/11-
12-12 and 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.), this chapter regulates the subdivision and
development of land in order to implement the comprehensive plan and Official
Map duly adopted by the city.
   (B)   Thus, this chapter assists in achieving the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety and
welfare;
      (2)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
and efficient layout and use of land and by facilitating aesthetic urban
design;
      (3)   To establish accurate legal records, to avoid development in
wetland areas and to avoid legal and other problems by requiring that
subdivided land be properly monumented and recorded;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements and
buildings throughout the city;
      (5)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city to the
maximum feasible extent, including preservation of such features as stands of
trees, streams, significant archaeological sites and historical landmarks;
      (6)   To provide adequate light, air and privacy for all residents of new
developments by preventing undue concentration of population;
      (7)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution,
flooding, storm water runoff or erosion and sedimentation;
      (8)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to
avoid traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the
proper location, design and construction of streets and sidewalks;
      (9)   To provide an environment whereby the cost of installing and
maintaining adequate water mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers and other
utilities and services can be kept at a minimum; and
      (10)   To ensure that adequate parks, schools and similar facilities can
be made available to serve the residents.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-2)
§ 158.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all planned developments
whether residential, commercial or otherwise in nature, and to any other
developments whether a plat is required or not under the law, statutes,
ordinances or regulations of the governmental body or agency having
jurisdiction or control, and regardless of whether the same is labeled a
subdivision or not, it being the intent of this chapter to apply to all types
of development, both within the city and to areas lying within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-3)
§ 158.004 INSTANCES WHEN PLATS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED.
   The provision of these regulations do not apply and no plat is required in
any of the following instances:
   (A)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access or special utility easements;
   (B)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or
special utility easements;
   (C)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
   (D)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or
special utility easements;
   (E)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   (F)   Conveyance made to correct description in prior conveyances;
   (G)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
recorded on or before 7-17-1959 and not involving any new streets or easements
of access or add special utility easements;
   (H)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or special
utility easements; and
   (I)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that, this
exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract existing as of 10-1-1973.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-4)
§ 158.005 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor
of the city, and every regulation set forth herein shall be considered the
minimum requirement for the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from those of
any statute, lawfully adopted ordinance or regulation, easement, covenant or
deed restriction, the more stringent requirement shall prevail.
      (2)   Thus, in accordance with state law whenever this chapter imposes
higher standards than the county’s Subdivision Code, said higher standards
shall supersede the county regulations in the unincorporated territory located
within the city’s subdivision jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-11
§ 158.006 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, Council member, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, Council member, agent or
employee of the city, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the
City Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, see 745
ILCS 10/1 101
§ 158.007 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation of terms. In construing the intended meaning of
terminology used in this chapter, the following rules shall be observed.
      (1)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in division (B) below;
terms not defined in division (B) below shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances; if any term is not defined either in
division (B) below or in
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances, said term shall have its standard English
dictionary meaning.
      (2)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and vice versa.
      (5)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is discretionary.
      (6)   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, divisions and the like) are
intended merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the
substantive application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
      (7)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions
within that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only
that division.
      (8)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of
specific terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly
limited.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor and the City Council
to administer this chapter.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street, and which
may be used for utility purposes.
      AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter, properly effected
in accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
      AREA, BUILDING. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the
main grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings
exclusive of unenclosed patios, terraces and steps.
       AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property
proposed for subdivision/ development, including any areas to be dedicated/
reserved for street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
      AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley
rights-of-way and public use.
      ARTERIAL STREET. A street designed or utilized primarily for high
vehicular speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with
intersections at grade, and on which traffic- control devices are used to
expedite the safe movement of through traffic.
      BARRIER (NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL). Any street, highway, river, pond, canal,
railroad, levee, embankment or screening by a fence or hedge.
      BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
rights-of-way (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a
subdivision unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or R.O.W.) or bounded
by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
      BUILDING. Any structure, whether temporary, semi-permanent or permanent,
designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of
persons or property.
      BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
      CATCH BASIN. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a
storm sewer, designed to retain matter that would not easily pass through the
storm sewer.
      CENTERLINE.
         (a)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
         (b)   The original centerline, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; and
         (c)   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
      CENTERLINE OFFSET. The distance between the centerline of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both said
“parallel” streets intersect.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision planned and constructed so as to group
housing units into relatively dense patterns while providing a unified network
of open space and wooded areas, and meeting the requirements of this chapter
and Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
      COMMON LAND. The land set aside for open space or recreational use for
the owners of the lots of a subdivision, which land is conveyed by the
developer in fee simple absolute title by warranty to trustees whose trust
indenture shall provide that said common land be used for the sole benefit, use
and enjoyment of the lot owners present and future. No lot owner shall have the
right to convey his or her interest in the COMMON LAND, except as an incident
of the ownership of a regularly platted lot.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the City
Council to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the
city. The city’s COMPREHENSIVE PLAN may include, but is not limited to, plans
and programs regarding the location, character and extent of highways, bridges,
public buildings or uses, utilities, schools, residential, commercial or
industrial land uses, parks, drainage facilities and the like.
      CROSS-SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way
rather than in the direction traffic moves on said right-of-way.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor local street having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a turn
around for vehicles; the term may also be used to refer solely to said turn
around.
      CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim forming the edge of a street, plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of concrete as a single
facility.
      DEDICATE. To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land or
improvement to the city or other appropriate government entity without
compensation.
      DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area, expressed as gross dwelling units per acre.
      DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the net
acreage. See definition of AREA, NET.
      DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and the arrangement of
easements, lots and rights-of-way, including specifications of materials,
alignment, grade and width of these elements.
      DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract
of land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation
therefor.
      DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
      DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the city wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.
      DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch which
carries storm water runoff or which is fed by street or building gutters or by
storm water sewers, or which serves the purpose of draining water from the
lands adjacent to such watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or a
person of the use of land for limited and specifically named purpose.
      ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure
the completion of improvements within a subdivision.
      FILING DATE. The date that the applicant has filed the last item of
required data or information with the City Clerk and has paid the necessary
fees for review by the Plan Commission.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. All land subject to periodic inundation from overflow
of natural waterways.
      FRONTAGE. The linear extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street fronting on an arterial street or highway
(usually a limited access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
      GRADE. The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed
as a percentage. Synonym for SLOPE.
      HILLSIDE AREA. An area with an average slope of 20% or more.
      IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas, storm water, telephone and cable television) to be
installed or agreed to be installed by the subdivider on land to be used for
public or private streets, and easements or other purposes as are necessary for
the general use of lot owners in the subdivision. Including the furnishing of
all materials, equipment, work and services such as engineering, staking and
supervision, necessary to construct all the improvements required in §§
158.115 through
158.119,
158.130 through
158.139,
158.150 through
158.156,
158.170 through
158.178,
158.190 through
158.198 and
158.210 through
158.213 of this chapter or any other IMPROVEMENTS that may be provided by the
subdivider. All of such materials, equipment and services shall be provided at
the subdivider’s cost and expense, although he or she may enter into a contract
with individuals and firms to complete such IMPROVEMENTS, and the IMPROVEMENTS
shall be subject to the final approval of the Plan Commission and the City
Council.
      IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for earth moving and for the structures and facilities to
be installed both in, or in conjunction with, a subdivision. PLANS must include
drainage, streets, alleys and utility locations to be installed in or in
conjunction with a subdivision also, include overall drainage plan and its
effect on contiguous land and source of effluent or discharge.
      INLET. A receptacle, located where surface and/or groundwater can run to
by gravity to be received by the storm sewer.
      INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
      LAND USE PLAN. The comprehensive long range plan for the desirable use of
land, the purpose of such plan being, among other things, to serve as a guide
to the zoning and progressive subdividing and use of undeveloped land.
      LOCAL STREET. A street serving limited amounts of residential traffic,
and for access to abutting property, and on which the speed limit is low and
the traffic volume minimal.
      LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether
immediate or future) of development or transfer of ownership. A LOT may or may
not coincide with a “lot of record”.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and
rear lines of a lot, exclusive of any land designated for street right-of-way.
      LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner
lots.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front end and the
rear lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut any street.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. On a corner
lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the frontage having the least dimension.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from
the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A corner
side lot line separating a lot from a street is called a street side lot line.
A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior
side lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision recorded with the county’s Recorder of Deeds in accordance with
state law.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a part of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angle
to the general direction of the side lot lines.
      MAINTENANCE BOND. A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by
the city, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed improvements for
the one year period following their dedication.
      MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A combination of maps, drawings, site plans,
charts and supportive narrative material that portrays total development to be
achieved in the overall project area; which provides sufficient detailed
information to both illustrate and describe the intended character and
configuration of development to be accomplished.
      METES AND BOUNDS. A description of real property which is not described
by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by starting at
a known point and description of the lines forming the boundaries of the
property or delineates a fractional portion of a section, lot or area by
describing lines or portions thereof.
      OFFICIAL MAP. A graphic statement of the existing and proposed capital
improvements planned by the city which require the acquisition of land such as
streets, drainage systems, parks and the like.
      OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought
to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same
under these regulations.
      PARKING LANE. An auxiliary lane of a street and primarily used for
vehicular parking.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way dedicated to public use which cuts across
a block to facilitate safe pedestrian access to adjacent streets and
properties.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. A surety bond posted by the developer and approved by
the city, guaranteeing the installation of required improvements within, or in
conjunction with, a subdivision.
      PERSON. Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, syndicate or trust.
      PLAN COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the city.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A planned unit development is a
comprehensively planned development containing residential, commercial,
industrial or other land uses on an area of land under continuing unified
control. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT may contain a single type of land use or
combination of land uses; provided that, such development is reviewed,
evaluated and approved by the city and satisfies the requirements contained
herein.
      PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, cross sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of improvements required in
this chapter and which plans shall conform to any requirements of the Plan
Commission as to scale and details for submittal to the approval officials of
the city for consideration, approval or disapproval.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final engineering and architectural maps, drawings and
supporting material indicating the subdivider’s plan of the subdivision which,
if approved, may be filed with the county’s Recorder of Deeds.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. Preliminary engineering and architectural maps,
drawings and supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a
subdivision.
      PROJECT AREA. That territory intended to be subdivided or developed and
portrayed and defined in the preliminary and final plats.
      RESERVE. To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition
by the city or other appropriate government entity for public purposes.
      RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a public street and
adjacent lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property
deed as land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
      RESUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
      RETENTION AREA. An area of land designed to capture water runoff from a
developed parcel and release it at a specified rate of flow as determined by
engineering studies.
      REVERSE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an “S” shape.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or other appropriate government entity for streets,
alleys and other public improvements; sometimes abbreviated as R.O.W.
      ROADBED. The graded portion of a street upon which the base course,
surface course, shoulders and median are constructed.
      ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, curbs and gutter.
      SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side or rear
lot line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or
rear yard.
      SIDEWALK. A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards
of this chapter, generally abutting or near the curb line of the street.
      SLOPE. The degree of inclination of site or right-of-way expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for GRADE.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The county’s Soil and Water
Conservation District.
      STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian or bicycle use only.
      STREET, AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY. Area service highways interconnect
collectors and land access streets with the principal system and vice versa,
brings all developed areas within a reasonable distance of principal streets,
connects and provides direct access to major traffic generators, provides
secondary service to smaller communities, may provide access to abutting
property and have a medium volume design capacity and travel speeds.
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short, land access street, having only one end open
for vehicular traffic and the other permanently terminated by a turn around for
vehicles.
      STREET, DEAD END. Land access streets similar to cul-de-sacs; except
that, they provide no turn around circle at their closed end, and are not
permitted in any proposed subdivision.
      STREET, LAND ACCESS. Land access streets provide access to abutting
properties, have a relatively short travel distance and have a low volume
design capacity and travel speeds.
      STREET, LOOPED. Land access streets having two open ends, each end
generally connecting with the same street, no other streets intersecting
between its ends, and property fronts on both sides of the street.
      STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS OR SERVICE ROAD. A land access street parallel
and adjacent to area service highways providing access to abutting properties.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent or
temporary location on or in the ground, or is attached to something having a
fixed location on or in the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES, but not all
STRUCTURES are buildings (e.g., a fence).
      STUB or BUTT STREET. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is
planned for future continuation.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
estate or other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to
divide land in a manner that constitutes a subdivision, as defined herein.
      SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   The division of land into two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental or building development or
use(s) other than agricultural use or production; and
         (b)   Establishment or dedication of a public street or alley through
a tract of land regardless of size. The term SUBDIVISION shall also include all
resubdivisions of land or lots.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A division of land into two, but not more than four
lots, all of which front upon an existing street, not involving new streets or
other rights-of-way, easements, improvements or other provisions for public
areas and facilities.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of
land.
      TRAVELWAY. The portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
      VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of right-of-way or subdivision
and to so note on the final plat recorded with the county’s Recorder of Deeds.
      VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION. A relaxation in the strict application of the
design and improvement standards set forth in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth
of which is set forth in Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
nearest rear main building and the rear lot lines. The depth of the required
REAR YARD shall be measured horizontally from the nearest part of the main
building toward the nearest point of the rear lot lines.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between a main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or front lot lines, where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be
measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line toward the
nearest part of the main building.
      ZONING CODE. The Zoning Code of the city, as set out in Ch. 159 of this
code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 34-2)
§ 158.008 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. The plan requirements shall be:
      (1)   Elevation area capacity curves for the storage facility including
notation of the storage volumes allocated to runoff and permanent residual
water storage for other uses (wet basins only);
      (2)   Inflow hydrographs (detention volumes for rational method) for the
15-, 25- and 100-year recurrence interval design storms;
      (3)   Stage discharge rating curves for each spillway and for combined
spillway discharges; and
      (4)   Routing curves for the 15-year, and all greater criteria,
recurrence interval design storms with time plotted as the abscissa and the
following plotted as ordinates (this item is not required for the rational
method):
         (a)   Cumulative inflow volume;
         (b)   Cumulative discharge; and
         (c)   Stage elevation.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-65)
   (B)   Construction alternatives.
      (1)   A developer shall build, as part of his or her development, a
detention basin as required by this chapter, unless the following divisions
apply.
      (2)   Developers of adjacent tracts may combine to build one detention
site large enough to meet the requirements of all the tracts of land with
approval of the city. The basin shall be located in the same drainage basin.
      (3)   On-site detention will be required whenever increased runoff from
the proposed development creates a hazard down stream as determined by the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-66)
§ 158.009 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND ACCEPTANCE BY CITY.
   (A)   Inspection. The developer shall inspect or cause to be inspected, all
storm water detention systems constructed within the city. Through such
inspection reports the City Engineer shall ensure that the facilities under
construction are being constructed in accordance with the approved plans for
such development.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-68)
   (B)   Maintenance. Each owner of the property being developed has the
responsibility and duty to properly operate and maintain any storm water
management system which has not been accepted for maintenance by the city. The
responsibility of maintenance of the system and subdivision projects shall
remain with the developer until such time as the storm water management system
escrow for such development has been released at the end of the one year
warranty period. Upon release of escrow, the maintenance responsibility shall
be vested in the trustees of the subdivision by virtue of a trust indenture.
Indenture of trusts shall clearly indicate resident responsibility for
maintenance. All such privately owned maintained systems shall be subject to
periodic inspections by the City Engineer or his or her representative. After
an inspection by the City Engineer, he or she determines whether or not the
conditions of the privately owned storm water detention system are safe and
correct. Any cost incurred by the city, as a result of the City Engineer’s
actions, shall be attest against the owner(s) of the system.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-69)
   (C)   Acceptance. Upon acceptance by the City Council, the storm water
detention system may be dedicated to the city for perpetual maintenance. Any
such system shall include adequate perpetual access and sufficient area for
maintenance by the city personnel and vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-70)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 158.020 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   Before preparing a proposed plat for an area, the owner, developer or his,
her or their representatives should have a pre-application meeting with the
Plan Commission and/or the City Planner to determine applicable ordinance
regulations and standards which must be complied with. After the pre-
application meeting(s), the subdivider should then prepare the preliminary
plat. As defined in this chapter, the preliminary plat must contain a
substantial amount of data and will thus be incomplete and cannot be considered
as filed until all required data are submitted. The preliminary plat is
received with filing fees by the City Clerk’s office, who, in turn, will
forward the same to the Plan Commission for its review. Following its review
(as well as comments from other appropriate agencies when required), the Plan
Commission forwards its recommendation(s) to the City Council, who then either
approve, disapprove or approve with modifications the preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-1)
§ 158.021 FILING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person who
proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of
the municipality shall file six copies of the preliminary plat of said
subdivision with the City Clerk.
   (B)   He or she shall also file one copy of the preliminary plat and
supporting data with the appropriate Soil and Water Conservation District. Said
district shall have not more than 30 days to submit any comments it might wish
to make to the Administrator.
   (C)   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a portion
of that tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, nonetheless, a master
development plan of the entire tract shall be submitted.
   (D)   All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in accordance
with 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 and the provisions below.
   (E)   The provision of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Minor subdivisions, as defined at §
158.007 of this chapter; or
      (2)   Land that is specifically exempted from the state’s Plats Act,
being 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 70 ILCS 405/22.02a and 765 ILCS 205/1(b)
§ 158.022 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a state registered land
surveyor at any scale from one inch equals 20 feet through one inch equals 100
feet; provided, the resultant drawing does not exceed 36 square inches.
   (B)   Each preliminary plat shall indicate on its face the following
information:
      (1)   Small key map showing the relation of the proposed subdivision to
section or U.S. survey lines and to platted subdivisions and dedicated roads
within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider (if not the owner) and
registered professional engineer;
      (3)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      (4)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided and of
the adjacent land;
      (5)   North arrow, graphic scale and date of map;
      (6)   The gross and net acreage area of the proposed subdivision, the
acreage of streets and of any areas reserved for the common use of the property
owners within the subdivision and/or for public use;
      (7)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision;
      (8)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to known land lines;
      (9)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two-foot
contour data for land having slopes of 0% and 4%, five-foot contour data for
land having slopes between 4% to 12% and ten-foot contour data for land having
slopes of 12% or more;
      (10)   Any proposed alteration, adjustment or change in the elevation or
topography of any area;
      (11)   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas,
natural drainageways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools and the
like;
      (12)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision; showing the names and including street right-of-way and
paving widths; approximate gradients; types and widths of pavement, curbs,
sidewalks, crosswalks, planting strips and other pertinent data, including
classification of all existing or proposed streets as to function as collector,
major, minor or county road;
      (13)   A copy of the results of any tests made to ascertain subsurface
rock and soil conditions and the water table;
      (14)   Locations, widths and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements;
      (15)   A copy of the description of all proposed deed restrictions and
covenants;
      (16)   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary and storm
sewers;
      (17)   Locations, types and approximate sizes of all other existing and
proposed utilities;
      (18)   Building setback or front yard lines and dimensions;
      (19)   Locations, dimensions and areas of all parcels to be reserved or
dedicated for schools, parks/playgrounds and other public purposes;
      (20)   Locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots
within the subdivision; and
      (21)   Information, as defined in §
158.023(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-3)
§ 158.023 PLAN COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Approval or disapproval. The Plan Commission shall either approve or
disapprove the application for preliminary plat approval within 60 days from
the date of said application or the filing of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the Plan Commission and the
subdivider mutually agree to extend this time limit. If the Plan Commission
disapproves the preliminary plat, it shall furnish to the applicant, within the
60-day period, a written statement specifying the aspects in which the proposed
plat fails to conform to this chapter and/or the Official Map. If the Plan
Commission approved the preliminary plat, it shall inform the City Council that
action can be taken at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
   (B)   Notice of meeting. The Plan Commission shall give notice of its
consideration of any preliminary plat and allow the opportunity to be heard to
the following person(s) or groups during its preliminary review time span:
      (1)   Any person requesting notification of the meeting;
      (2)   Any property owner whose property is contiguous to the property,
including property across the streets, railroads, creeks and similar barriers;
said information shall be provided by the applicant to the City Clerk’s office
when filing the plat; and
      (3)   Any governmental or taxing body which requests notification of the
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-4)
§ 158.024 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL; TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall review the preliminary plat, along with the
Plan Commission recommendations and approve, disapprove or approve subject to
certain conditions and/or modifications said preliminary plat within 30 days
after its next regularly scheduled meeting following receipt of the written
Plan Commission recommendations, unless variances from Zoning Code requirements
are needed, in which case, the City Council’s 30 days commence the day after
the Council of Appeals hearing is held, as required by
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If the City Council rejects the preliminary plat, its resolution shall
specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply with this chapter and/or
the Official Map. The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Council’s
resolution of approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. One copy of the
resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the Administrator and one copy shall be sent to the subdivider by return
receipt mail.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-5)
§ 158.025 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF SUBDIVIDER.
   Preliminary plat approval shall confer the following rights and privileges
upon the subdivider:
   (A)   The preliminary plat will remain in effect for a one-year period from
the day the City Council approves the same. The applicant may, during this
period, submit all or part or parts of said preliminary plat for final
approval. In the event that the subdivision is being developed in stages, the
applicant may, by written mutual agreement with the City Council, have final
approval of the last part of the plat delayed for a period not to exceed five
years from the date of the preliminary plat approval. Any part of a subdivision
which is being developed in stages shall contain a tract of land at least one
block in area or five gross acres;
   (B)   The general terms and conditions under which the preliminary plat
approval was granted will not be changed for final approval; and
   (C)   (1)   The applicant may also proceed with any detailed improvement
plans required for all facilities or utilities intended to be provided. Actual
construction of such facilities and improvements may commence prior to final
plat approval if the detailed improvement plans have been recommended by the
City Engineer and approved by the City Council; provided that, such facilities
and improvements will be inspected throughout their construction, and final
plat approval will be contingent in part upon acceptable compliance to city
improvement and facilities standards.
      (2)   If the applicant does not submit the improvement plans prior to the
submission of the final plat, then he or she shall submit the improvement plans
to the City Clerk’s office at the time that the final plat is submitted.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-6)
IMPROVEMENT PLANS
§ 158.040 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   After the City Council has approved the preliminary plat, but prior to
submission of the final plat, the developer shall furnish six copies of the
plans and specifications for all improvements to be installed within or in
conjunction with the proposed development to the City Clerk, pay all associated
filing fees before review by the City Engineer. These plans and specifications
shall be signed and sealed by the registered professional engineer responsible
for their preparation.
   (B)   Until the City Engineer certifies in writing that the proposed
improvements conform to generally accepted engineering practices and to the
standards in this chapter:
      (1)   The Administrator shall not issue any building permit to allow
construction of said improvements; and
      (2)   The City Council shall not act upon the application for final plat
approval.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-8)
§ 158.041 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Improvement plans shall consist of black or blue line prints not
larger than 36 square inches.
   (B)   These plans and the related specifications shall provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   Topography of the tract, both before and after development at the
same scale as the approved preliminary plat;
      (2)   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerline of all
streets;
      (3)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
      (4)   Locations and typical cross-section of street pavements including
curbs/gutters, catch basins and inlets;
      (5)   Locations and typical cross section of sidewalks and driveway
aprons;
      (6)   Locations, sizes and invert elevations of all existing and proposed
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and fire hydrants, showing connections to any
existing or proposed utility systems;
      (7)   Locations and sizes of all water, gas, electric and other
utilities;
      (8)   Locations of street lighting standards and street signs;
      (9)   One or more benchmarks, when requested by Engineer, in or near the
subdivision, to which the subdivision is referenced; the identity and elevation
shall be based on sea level datum;
      (10)   All proposed measures to control erosion and sedimentation;
      (11)   High water elevations of all lakes/streams adjoining or within the
tract;
      (12)   Such other information as the City Engineer may reasonably require
to perform his or her duties under this section; and
      (13)   Existing and proposed survey monuments on street plans or on the
proposed final plat as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-9)
§ 158.042 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   The subdivider/developer shall notify the Administrator and the Building
Commissioner of both the start and completion of construction.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall inspect said improvements while they
are under construction. If he or she or his or her designated deputy determines
that they are being built in violation of this chapter, he or she shall request
that the Administrator promptly issue a stop order.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Commissioner and City Engineer shall inspect
improvements upon their completion.
      (2)   The municipality shall not accept any completed improvement until
the Building Commissioner and Engineer have stated in writing that it complies
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-10)
§ 158.043 FILING “AS-BUILT” RECORDS.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall file with the Administrator a set of
reproducible cloth or polyester base film positive showing the as-built details
and any deviations from the approved plans upon the completion of improvements
or when 50% of the building permits have been issued in a given plat.
   (B)   The subdivider/developer shall pay the costs to add water, sewer,
street and storm water improvements to the overall city map(s).
   (C)   If the Administrator finds the as-built to be unacceptable, building
permits shall be discontinued until such time as the information is acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-11)
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 158.055 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT; IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Council shall not approve any final plat of subdivision (and,
hence, said final plat shall not be entitled to recording) until:
   (A)   All improvements required in the improvement plan have been completed
by the subdivider/ developer at his or her expense, inspected by the Building
Commissioner and Engineer and dedicated to the municipality or other
appropriate entity; or
   (B)   In accordance with the sections below, the subdivider/developer has
provided this municipality with legal assurance to guarantee the satisfactory
completion and dedication of all required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-13)
§ 158.056 FORMS OF ASSURANCE.
   At the option of the City Council, the required legal assurance may be
either a performance bond or an escrow deposit. Every performance bond shall be
reviewed by the City Attorney and posted with the City Clerk. Any funds to be
held in escrow shall be deposited with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-14)
§ 158.057 AMOUNT OF BOND OR DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The amount of the performance bond or escrow deposit shall be equal to
the City Engineer’s opinion of probable costs of constructing the uncompleted
portion of the required improvements plus all required inspection fees.
   (B)   Any escrow deposit may be in the form of:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending
institution guaranteeing to this municipality the availability of the escrow
funds from time to time upon demand; or
      (3)   Certificates of deposit, treasury bills or other readily negotiable
instruments approved by the City Clerk and made payable to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-15)
§ 158.058 ELIGIBLE SURETIES.
   No person shall be eligible to act as surety unless he or she has been
approved by the City Clerk. The Clerk shall conduct or cause to be conducted
spot audits of all sureties. Any surety who fails to perform shall be
ineligible for two years thereafter to act as surety for any subdivision
improvement within the municipality’s jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-16)
§ 158.059 TERM OF ASSURANCE, EXTENSION.
   The initial term of any performance bond or escrow agreement shall not
exceed two years. If all the required improvements have not been completed by
the end of the two-year period, the Plan Commission, with the advice and
consent of the City Council, may either extend said bond/escrow agreement for
one year only, or may proceed as per §
158.061 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-17)
§ 158.060 RELEASE OF BOND/ESCROW DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The City Clerk may release up to 90% of the amount of the performance
bond/escrow deposit upon receipt of written authorization from the Building
Commissioner. The amount which the Building Commissioner authorizes to be
released shall be equal to the value of improvements actually completed in
accordance with approved plans.
   (B)   The balance of the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit shall
not be released by the City Clerk until:
      (1)   The Building Commissioner has certified to the Administrator in
writing that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and
      (2)   Said improvements have been accepted by and dedicated to the city
or other appropriate entity.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-18)
§ 158.061 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of the
two-year period (or three-year period, in the case of an extension), the
Administrator, with the assistance of the City Attorney, may:
   (A)   Require the surety to perform on the bond, and to pay to the
municipality an equal amount to the cost of completing the required
improvements or the amount of the bond not theretofore released, whichever is
less;
   (B)   Order the City Clerk to retain all escrow funds needed to complete the
required improvements, and to return the balance (if any) of such funds to the
subdivider/developer; or
   (C)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new performance bond/
escrow deposit in an amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of
constructing the required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-19)
FINAL PLATS
§ 158.075 CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   The City Council shall not approve any final plat unless they determine that
it is in compliance with all pertinent requirements of this chapter including
those set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-22)
§ 158.076 FILING, TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The subdivider of every subdivision whether major or minor, but
excluding land specifically exempted from the state’s Plats Act as now or
hereafter amended (765 ILCS 205/1(b)) who desires final plat approval shall
file six copies of the final plat and supporting data with the City Clerk and
pay all associated filing fees not later than one year after preliminary plat
approval has been granted. However, with the consent of the City Council, the
subdivider may delay application for final approval of part(s) of the tract
shown on the preliminary plat for successive one-year periods. No subdivision
plat or replat shall be filed for record or recorded in the office of the
county’s Recorder of Deeds, unless and until the approval of the city is
endorsed thereon. No lot shall be sold for such subdivision plat or replat
until it has been approved by the City Council and filed for record in the
office of the county’s Recorder of Deeds as required by the state statutes.
   (B)   For official filings, the subdivider shall file the approved final
plat with the county’s Recorder of Deeds within 60 days after the City Council
has approved the same and the Mayor has affixed his or her signature thereto.
One copy of the final plat shall be given to the City Clerk’s office by the
subdivider bearing the official stamp of the County Recorder attesting its
recording within 20 days of such action.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-23)
§ 158.077 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every final plat shall be prepared by a registered state land surveyor
on new linen tracing cloth or polyester base film with waterproof black ink at
a scale not greater than 100 feet equals one inch; provided that, the resultant
drawing shall not exceed 36 square inches.
   (B)   The final plat and supporting data shall portray/provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
      (2)   Name of subdivider, subdivision, identification of the portion of
the public lands survey in which the subdivision is located;
      (3)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of
the tract, and the included area of the subdivision to the nearest one
hundredth of an acre;
      (4)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 10,000 feet;
      (5)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot;
      (6)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land within 300
feet, by record name, plat book and page number;
      (7)   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the
boundaries of the subdivision;
      (8)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way, easements
and lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles or bearings and curve data,
including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles;
      (9)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
      (10)   Purpose of any existing or proposed easement(s);
      (11)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions and (in a separate list) lot
areas;
      (12)   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are reserved;
      (13)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
      (14)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds of lots;
      (15)   Certification of dedication of all public areas;
      (16)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established
official monument; reference corners shall be accurately described on the final
plat;
      (17)   Reference to known and permanent monuments and benchmarks from
which future surveys may be made together with elevations of any benchmarks;
and the surveyor must, at the time of making his or her survey, establish
permanent monuments (set in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost)
which mark the external boundaries of the tract to be divided or subdivided and
must designate upon the plat the locations where they may be found; and
      (18)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-24)
§ 158.078 CERTIFICATES REQUIRED.
   As required by state law (765 ILCS 205/2, 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8), the following
certificates shall be executed on the final plat:
   (A)   Owner’s certificate;
   (B)   Notary public’s certificate;
   (C)   Surveyor’s certificate;
   (D)   County Clerk’s certificate;
   (E)   Certificate of City Council; and
   (F)   Flood hazard certificate.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-25)
§ 158.079 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW, ADVISORY REPORT.
   Within 30 days from the date of application for final plat approval, the
Building Commissioner and the Administrator shall review said final plat (and
supporting data), and shall each advise the City Council in writing whether it
substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat and improvement plans.
A copy of their advisory report shall be forwarded to the Plan Commission. The
Plan Commission may prepare an addendum to said report (should it so desire)
and forward same to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-26)
§ 158.080 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall either approve or disapprove the application
for final plat approval by resolution within 60 days from the date of said
application or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless the Council and the subdivider mutually agree
to extend this time limit.
   (B)   The City Council shall not approve any final plat unless:
      (1)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary
plat;
      (2)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design and
improvements standards of this chapter,
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances and the Official Map;
      (3)   To the Council’s knowledge and belief, the final plat complies with
all pertinent requirements of state law; and
      (4)   Either of the following has been met:
         (a)   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
accepted and dedicated; or
         (b)   The subdivider/developer has posted a performance bond or
deposited funds in escrow to guarantee the satisfactory completion and
dedication of all required improvements.
   (C)   If the City Council disapproves the final plat, their resolution shall
specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions for
approval.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Council’s
resolution of approval or disapproval to the final plat. One copy of the
resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the Administrator and one copy shall be given to the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-27)
§ 158.081 CHANGES IN APPROVED FINAL PLATS.
   Once a final plat is approved by the City Council, it shall not thereafter
be modified; provided, however, that, minor changes may be made upon written
application to the Administrator. Major changes require the filing of a new
final plat and complete re-review.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-28)
§ 158.082 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivider’s responsibilities. The subdivider/developer shall maintain
all the improvements in the subdivision until they have been accepted by and
dedicated to the city or other appropriate entity.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-35)
   (B)   Maintenance bond.
      (1)   Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall post a
maintenance bond with the City Clerk in the form approved by the City Attorney.
Said bond shall be in the amount determined by the Building Commissioner to be
sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required improvements
for a period of two years from the date of their acceptance and dedication.
      (2)   If, at any time during the two-year period, the improvements are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired/replaced at the subdivider/
developer’s expense. If the subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay such
costs within 90 days after demand is made upon him or her by the Building
Commissioner, the city shall use the maintenance bond to make the necessary
repairs/replacement. If the cost of repairs/replacement exceeds the bond
amount, the subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At the end of
the two-year period, the maintenance bond shall be released.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-36)
§ 158.083 VACATION OF PLATS.
   In accordance with state law (765 ILCS 205/6, 205/7 and 205/8), any plat or
part thereof may be vacated by the owner of the tract, at any time before the
sale of any lot therein, by a written vacation instrument to which a copy of
the plat is attached. If there are public service facilities in any street,
other public way or easement shown on said plat, the instrument shall reserve
to the city or other public entity or public utility owning such facilities the
property, rights-of-way and easements necessary for continuing public service
by means of those facilities and for maintaining or reconstructing the same.
The vacation instrument shall be approved by the Council in the same manner as
plats of subdivision and shall also be approved by the county’s Superintendent
of Highways, the Highway Commissioner of the appropriate township, the District
Engineer of the state’s Department of Transportation and the public utilities.
In the case of the platted tracts wherein any lots have been sold, the written
vacation instrument must also be signed by all the owners of lots in said
tracts.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-37)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 158.095 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The enforcement officer, referred to herein as the Administrator, is
hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To review and forward preliminary plats to the Plan Commission;
      (2)   To transmit improvements plans to the City Engineer for his or her
review;
      (3)   To review and forward final plats to the City Council;
      (4)   To issue stop orders as necessary when the Building Commissioner or
City Engineer determines that approved improvements are being constructed in
violation of this chapter;
      (5)   To pursue actions authorized at §
158.061 of this chapter when a developer fails to complete required
improvements;
      (6)   To evaluate and pass upon proposed changes in approved final plats;
      (7)   To review and forward applications for subdivision variances to the
Plan Commission;
      (8)   To maintain up to date records of matters pertaining to this
chapter including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of
completed improvements, final plats, variances and amendments; and
      (9)   To provide information to subdividers/developers and to the general
public on matters related to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-1)
§ 158.096 SUBDIVISION VARIANCES.
   Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance from the requirements of this
chapter shall file a written application therefor with the Administrator at the
same time that he or she files his or her preliminary plat. The application
shall fully explain the grounds for the variance request and specify the
section(s) of this chapter which, if strictly applied, would cause great
practical difficulties or hardship. The Administrator shall prepare an advisory
report on every variance application and submit it, together with the completed
application, to the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-2)
§ 158.097 REVIEW BY PLAN COMMISSION.
   The Plan Commission shall review the variance application and the
Administrator’s comments, perform on-site review when appropriate and submit
its advisory report to the City Council, together with its recommendation on
preliminary plat approval. The Plan Commission’s advisory report shall be
responsive to all the variances standards set forth in §
158.098 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-3)
§ 158.098 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   At the same meeting at which it takes action on the application for
preliminary plat approval, the City Council shall decide, by resolution,
whether to grant or deny the requested subdivision variance. A copy of its
decision, clearly stating its reasons therefor and the exact terms of any
variance granted, shall be attached to both the preliminary and final plats.
   (B)   The City Council shall not grant any subdivision variance unless,
based upon the information presented to it, it determines that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter;
      (2)   Strict application of the subdivision requirements would result in
great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant, not a mere
inconvenience;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the subdivision
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances creating the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variance would be a more
appropriate remedy than a code amendment; and
      (6)   The variance, if granted, will not materially frustrate
implementation of the municipal comprehensive plan including the Official Map.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-4)
§ 158.099 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter may be proposed by the Administrator, any member
of the City Council, any Plan Commission member or any party in interest. Every
amendment proposal shall be filed on a prescribed form in the Administrator’s
office. The Administrator shall promptly transmit each proposal, together with
any comments or recommendations he or she may wish to make, to the Plan
Commission for a public hearing.
   (A)   Public hearing, notice.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on every amendment
proposal within a reasonable time after said proposal is submitted to it.
      (2)   At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either
in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
      (3)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the
nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30, nor less than
15, days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality.
   (B)   Advisory report, action by City Council.
      (1)   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Plan
Commission shall submit an advisory report to the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall act on the proposed amendment at its next
regularly scheduled meeting following submission of this report.
      (3)   Without another public hearing, the City Council may either pass or
reject the proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Plan Commission for
further consideration.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-5)
§ 158.100 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The review for the preliminary plat shall be $50, plus $5 per lot.
   (B)   The final plat fee shall be $50 if no variation from the preliminary
plat, otherwise $50, plus $5 per lot, whenever Plan Commission review is
required.
   (C)   Improvement plan review and inspection fee shall be 1% of the total
opinion of probable cost for all improvements as determined by the City
Engineer or by the total of all certified contracts for all work related to
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-6)
§ 158.101 FEES; TIME OF PAYMENT.
   All fees listed in §
158.100 of this chapter shall be paid by the subdivider/developer or the
applicant to the City Clerk’s office at the time of submission of documents.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-7)
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 158.115 APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   No land within the subdivision and development jurisdiction of the
municipality shall be subdivided or developed, except in compliance with the
regulations of this subchapter and the applicable provisions of state law.
   (B)   No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed until:
      (1)   The final plat of said subdivision has been approved by the City
Council and recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds; and
      (2)   The portion of said subdivision in which the lot is located has
been improved in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter or until a
performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion of
such improvements.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue a building permit for any
lot conveyed in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 and 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
§ 158.116 SUITABILITY FOR DEVELOPMENT GENERALLY.
   Land that is unsuitable for development due to flooding, poor drainage,
rough topography, adverse soil conditions or other features which will be
harmful to the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
development and/or its surrounding areas shall not be subdivided or developed
unless the subdivider/developer formulates adequate plans/methods to solve the
problems caused by the adverse land conditions.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-2)
§ 158.117 CONFORMITY WITH ZONING.
   (A)   All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the minimum lot area and
dimensions requirements of the zoning district in which said subdivision is
located; land that is under water or reserved for street improvements shall not
be counted to satisfy these minimum requirements.
   (B)   Every corner and through lot shall be large enough to permit
compliance with the district’s front setback requirements on every side of the
lot that faces a street.
   (C)   All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the creation
of unbuildable parcels.
   (D)   All lots shall contain adequate space for required off-street parking
and loading.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-4)
§ 158.118 ACCESS AND RELATIONSHIP TO STREET.
   (A)   Land shall be subdivided in such a way that each lot abuts a street
meeting the requirements of §
158.130 of this chapter.
   (B)   All side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street right-
of-way lines or radial to curved street right-of-way lines, except where a
deviation from this rule will provide a better street and lot design.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-5)
§ 158.119 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments, set in the ground in
such a manner that they will not be moved by frost, shall be placed in the
field in accordance with the Plat Act, as now or hereafter amended, 765 ILCS
205/1.
   (B)   All block corners shall be 36 inches permanent concrete post monuments
and four inches in diameter.
   (C)   All lot corners shall be marked by one-half inch iron pins not less
than 30 inches long.
   (D)   These pins shall be driven into the ground deep enough that they do
not protrude above the ground surface more than one-half inch.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-6)
STREET DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 158.130 PLAN INTEGRATION.
   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
street system indicated in the municipal comprehensive plan and shall meet the
specifications set forth herein.
 
Residential    Max. No. of Permitted  Required Min.        Max.      Min.
Street         Dwelling    On-Street  R.O.W.   Pavement    Gradient  Gradient
Classification Units/Net   Parking    (ft.)    Width (ft.) (%)       (%)
               Acre
               Over 250
Arterial       dwelling    None       70       28          6         1.0
               units
               served
Collector      4.50/       Both sides 50       34          6         1.0
               greater
Local          2.0—4.50  Both sides 45       30          6         1.0
Marginal       To 1.99     None       40       20          6         1.3
access
 
Commercial and Permitted               Min.
Industrial     On- Street Required     Pavement    Max. Gradient Min. Gradient
Street         Parking    R.O.W. (ft.) Width (ft.) (%)           (%)
Classification
Collector      None       80           44          8             1.0
Local          None       60           26          10            1.0
Local          One side   60           34          10            1.0
Local          Both sides 60           42          10            1.0
 
(Prior Code, § 34-5-7)
§ 158.131 RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   (A)   (1)   Every right-of-way established for subdivision purposes is to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
      (2)   All rights-of-way shall be dedicated to the public by the
developer.
   (B)   The minimum pavement widths shall be as noted herein.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-8)
§ 158.132 TOPOGRAPHICAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   Grades of street shall conform as closely as possible to the natural
topography, but shall not exceed the maximum grade, nor be less than the
minimum grade indicated in §
158.130 of this chapter. All streets shall be arranged so that as many as
possible of the building sites are at or above street grade.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-9)
§ 158.133 THROUGH TRAFFIC DISCOURAGED.
   Marginal access and local streets shall be laid out so as to discourage use
by through traffic. The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern shall be
avoided, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs or U-shaped streets
shall be encouraged to effect a more desirable street layout.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-10)
§ 158.134 LIMITED ACCESS TO ARTERIALS.
   Where a development abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the Plan Commission may recommend to the City Council that access to
said arterial street be limited by one of the following means:
   (A)   By subdividing lots so they back onto the arterial street and front
onto a parallel local street (double frontage lots), coupled with the
installation of screening in a reserve (access restricting) strip along the
rear lot lines of such lots;
   (B)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered from
and generally at right angles to the arterial street, with the rear lot lines
of the lots at the termini of such streets backing onto the arterial street; or
   (C)   A frontage road separated from the arterial street by a planting
strip, but having access thereto at suitable points.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-11)
§ 158.135 DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)   Temporary stub streets. Streets shall be so arranged to provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
and police protection and efficient provision of utilities, and where such
continuation comports with the city’s Official Map. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must dead-end temporarily, the right-of-way shall be
extended to the property line, and no strip that would prevent connections with
future streets shall be reserved. A temporary turnabout shall be provided at
the terminus of any temporary dead-end street.
   (B)   Permanent dead-end streets.
      (1)   For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police and
fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be limited to 500 feet in
length.
      (2)   The terminus of a permanent dead-end street shall not be closer
than 50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A cul-de-sac turnaround,
having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a minimum pavement radius
of 42 feet, shall be provided at the end of every permanent dead-end street.
§ 158.136 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Only two streets. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point.
   (B)   Right angles. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles; in no case shall two streets intersect at an angle
of less than 75 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching an
intersection and shall be approximately at right angles with said intersection
for at least 100 feet therefrom.
   (C)   Proper alignment. Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing street shall, whenever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersections on the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline
offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at either
intersection. Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least 800 feet apart.
   (D)   Curb radii. To permit safe vehicular movements at corners, the minimum
curb radius at the intersection of two streets shall be 20 feet, and the
minimum radius at the back of the curb shall be 32 feet.
   (E)   Flat grade. Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly terrain, an area having not greater than a 3% slope for a
distance of 50 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street shall be provided at the approach to an intersection.
   (F)   Maximum cross-slope. The cross-slopes on all streets, including
intersections, shall not exceed 3%.
   (G)   Adequate sight lines. Where any street intersection will involve earth
banks or existing vegetation on the triangular area shown in Figure 1 below,
the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including trees) in
connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent necessary
to provide an adequate sight distance.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-13) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 158.137 REVERSE CURVES.
   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse curves
on local collector and collector streets. (See Figure 2 below.)
(Prior Code, § 34-5-14) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 158.138 IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING STREETS.
   Whenever any development abuts an existing street that is narrower than the
standards indicated in the §
158.130 of this chapter, the subdivider shall dedicate sufficient right- of-way
on the side abutting the development to permit compliance with those standards.
The developer shall improve said street to the standards imposed at §§
158.150 through
158.156 of this chapter and pay one-half the cost of said improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-15)
§ 158.139 WHEN EXCESS RIGHT-OF-WAY REQUIRED.
   Right-of-way width in excess of the standards set forth in §
158.130 of this chapter shall be required where:
   (A)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide adequate
earth slopes; or
   (B)   Due to the location of railroad tracks, additional width is needed to
construct overpasses, underpasses and approaches thereto.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-16)
STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 158.150 DEVELOPER’S EXPENSE.
   (A)   All streets and alleys shall be improved solely at the expense of the
developer in accordance with the requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   All streets shall be graded as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use within
a subdivision shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with the
minimum requirements hereinbelow set forth and in a manner, which will provide
complete and adequate drainage of all the streets, alleys and public grounds,
which may be necessary in order to provide adequate and satisfactory drainage
along the side of any existing public street which lies adjacent to the
subdivision.
         (b)   In general, all such new streets within the subdivision and all
work to be undertaken thereon shall be designed and constructed according to
IDOT Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications as the same are in effect at the
time the preliminary plat and plans for such improvement work are submitted for
approval.
      (2)   Grading roadway and side slopes. The roadway shall be considered to
be that part of the improvement which lies between the right-of-way lines.
      (3)   Street construction standards. All streets within the
jurisdictional authority of the municipality other than state highways shall be
improved with pavements bounded by integral concrete curbs and gutter, in
accordance with the following criteria.
         (a)   Collector street pavements shall be provided with a bituminous
surface of one and one-half inches of bituminous concrete binder and one and
one-half inches of bituminous concrete surface Class 1 placed upon a crush
stone base course of CA #6 having a minimum thickness of six inches compacted.
The center 40 feet of the base course shall have a crown of three inches.
         (b)   Local street pavements shall be provided with a CA #6 crushed
stone base course, having a minimum thickness of seven inches compacted. An A-
2 surface treatment shall be applied in accordance with the IDOT Roads and
Bridges Standard Specifications.
         (c)   The crushed stone base course shall be permitted to remain
throughout one winter season before the bituminous surface is placed thereon.
Following inspection of the base and subbase as to compaction and thickness of
the base by the administrative officer, he or she may, by authority in writing
to the subdivider, waive the winter season waiting period. Compaction based on
percent of optimum density.
         (d)   The subdivider shall be required to improve arterial streets
only to the width required by the current and immediate needs of his or her
subdivision consistent to the standards and specifications herein contained.
      (4)   Alleys. Alleys where permitted or required, shall be constructed as
specified for local streets.
      (5)   Utility lines.
         (a)   Underground utilities in streets or rights-of-way or in
easements shall be installed prior to the construction of such streets and/or
alleys.
         (b)   Wherever possible, utilities will be placed in rear lot
easements with street placement permitted in only the most unusual
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-20)
§ 158.151 CURB AND GUTTER.
   All streets, except alleys and collector commercial, local commercial,
arterial or industrial, shall be constructed with portland cement concrete
vertical curb and gutter and/or V-type gutter in accordance with the dimensions
and specifications shown. Only vertical curb and gutter shall be constructed in
industrial streets. The materials and construction methods for curb and/or
gutter shall conform with IDOT Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-21)
§ 158.152 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Subsequent to completion of street construction by the subdivider, the
City Engineer shall make a final inspection of all streets to ascertain the
acceptability of structural condition, earth slopes, drainage structures and
the like. If said inspection indicates no deficient items, the city shall take
formal action to accept the completed streets for maintenance based upon the
Engineer’s recommendation.
   (B)   Should any item need correction or repair, the subdivider will be
notified in writing of each deficiency. No street(s) will be accepted in a
subdivision until all streets comply with the city’s requirements to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer. In addition, the developer will be required
to provide a guarantee in the form of a surety bond in the amount of $10,000
for a period of two years.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-22)
§ 158.153 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block width. Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two
tiers of lots having the minimum depth required by the zoning district
regulations; provided that, this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent
to local collector or collector streets, railroads or watercourses.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-25)
   (B)   Block length. No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet, nor shorter
than 500 feet. Wherever practicable, blocks along collector streets shall not
be less than 1,000 feet in length.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-26)
   (C)   Crosswalks. Crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required
through the center of blocks more than 1,000 feet long where necessary to
provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation or other community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-27)
§ 158.154 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required:
         (a)   On the recommendation of the Plan Commission that sidewalks are
needed to ensure public safety; and
         (b)   Along collector streets, near schools and in shopping areas and
similar public places.
      (2)   These requirements shall not be waived unless the Plan Commission
advises the City Council that, in the area in question, sidewalks are not
needed to ensure public safety and/or that topographical conditions make the
installation of sidewalks impractical.
      (3)   All sidewalks constructed within the municipality shall meet IDOT
Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-29)
   (B)   Sidewalk construction standards.
      (1)   Relationship to curb. The street side edge of every sidewalk shall
either abut the curb or be located at least six feet from the curb to allow
sufficient space for tree planting.
      (2)   Width. Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide. Non-
residential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
      (3)   Thickness of concrete. All sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete at least four inches thick; except that, across driveways the
thickness shall be increased to six inches and/or number six reinforcing mesh
shall be used.
      (4)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than 6%.
      (5)   Ramps at intersections. When sidewalks are required, curbs shall be
cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all intersections so as to enhance the
mobility of handicapped individuals.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-30)
§ 158.155 STREETLIGHTS.
   (A)   Intersection lighting. Streetlights shall be provided at each
intersection of streets (or alleys) within a subdivision and at each cul-de-
sac, but in no event shall there be less than one streetlight per 400 feet (or
portion thereof) of street frontage between intersections, or between a street
intersection and the terminus of a dead end street. Additionally, in multi-
family dwelling subdivisions, lighting shall be provided within parking areas
at a minimum rate of one light per 25 parking spaces or any fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-32)
   (B)   Streetlight system standards.
      (1)   The design and installation of the streetlight system in every
subdivision shall be reviewed by the Building Commissioner and the appropriate
electric utility company.
      (2)   The lighting intensity of each streetlight shall be equivalent, at
a minimum, to a 175-watt lamp or 6,800 mercury luminary lamp. Each streetlight
standard (post) shall be at least 16 feet high.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-33)
§ 158.156 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs of the size, height and type approved by Building
Commissioner shall be supplied and placed by the developer at all intersections
within or abutting any subdivision. Street names shall be sufficiently
different in sound and spelling from other street names in the municipality so
as to avoid confusion. The City Clerk shall maintain a list of existing street
names for reference. A street which is planned as a continuation of an existing
street shall bear the same name.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-35)
UTILITIES
§ 158.170 UTILITY LOCATION AND EASEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   At locations within the subdivision where utilities and drainage
facilities are not to be constructed within public rights-of-way, the
subdivider shall make provision for easements for such installations.
   (B)   Preliminary plats shall be submitted to the electric, gas and
telephone companies for their input regarding utility easements.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-37)
§ 158.171 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Utility easements, not less than 20 feet wide for sanitary sewers and water
mains and not less than 15 feet wide for gas, electric, telephone and cable
television, shall be provided where necessary. Normally, in the case of
abutting lots, an equal amount should be taken from each lot. Property owners
may (at their own risk) plant shrubbery or hedges or install fences on the
easement areas. Utilities (private and public), however, in order to have
access for repair shall have the election to destroy said improvements and
restore the area only by grading and seeding, or to have alternate access
through the owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-38)
§ 158.172 DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall be established along
any natural drainage channel and in such other locations as may be necessary to
provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from streets, alleys and all other
portions of the subdivision.
   (B)   The location and minimum widths of such easements shall be approved by
the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-39)
§ 158.173 MAINTENANCE EASEMENTS.
   Maintenance easements of not less than five feet in width shall be provided
along all rear and side lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-40)
§ 158.174 POTABLE WATER REQUIRED.
   (A)   An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided to every platted
lot in accordance with State Department of Public Health regulations and the
State Environmental Protection Agency regulations. If the public water system
is reasonably accessible, each lot shall be properly connected thereto at the
property line. All water distribution lines shall be at least six inches in
diameter and shall conform to the latest edition of Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Construction in Illinois and in accordance with all city
administrative regulations.
   (B)   The developer shall provide, at his or her expense, a minimum of one
water main tap per lot and shall be responsible for having a curb box installed
in accordance with city administrative regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-42)
§ 158.175 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants of the type approved by the Water and Sewer Superintendent
shall be installed in every subdivision as part of the water distribution
system. The distance from any lot to a hydrant, measured along the centerline
of the public right-of-way, shall not be greater than 400 feet.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-43)
§ 158.176 SANITARY SEWER COMPLIANCE.
   All proposed sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the regulations of
the state’s Department of Public Health and the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency, and shall be approved by the City Council. All water and
sewer lines shall be constructed as per Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewers Mains, State of Illinois, 4th Edition, or as amended.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-45)
§ 158.177 WHEN PUBLIC SYSTEM PLANNED.
   In areas where the public sanitary sewerage system is not reasonably
accessible, but where plans for the installation of said system have been
approved by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency, sanitary sewers shall
be provided in accordance with such plans and temporarily capped. To serve the
subdivision until the time when connection to the public system becomes
practicable, an approved private central sewage disposal system shall be
installed or individual sewage disposal systems may be used.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-46)
§ 158.178 ALTERNATE METHODS OF DISPOSAL.
   (A)   In the event it is not possible, or feasible, for the subdivider to
extend the public sewer system into the proposed subdivision, for whatever
reason, the subdivider has the right to petition the city to install an
alternative method of sewage disposal. Any such petition shall be considered on
an individual basis with each case standing on its own merit.
   (B)   No subdivision shall be approved without the city’s approval of the
method of sewage disposal:
      (1)   Private central sewage systems. Upon specific approval of the City
Council, the subdivider may install a private central sewage system. The city
shall reserve the right to review and approve/reject the detailed plans for
such a system. Approval of the plans by the city shall in no way be construed
as acceptance of the design or operation or maintenance responsibility for said
installation. Such installation shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency
and the state’s Department of Public Health. The subdivider shall assume
perpetual operational and maintenance responsibilities for such installation
unless arrangements to the contrary are provided for in a formal written
agreement between home owners and the subdivider. Failure of the subdivider to
discharge his or her operational/maintenance responsibilities may result in a
fine of $750 per day for each day a deficiency exists and shall apply to the
subdivider, his or her heirs, successors or assigns.
      (2)   Individual disposal systems. Upon written approval of the City
Council, the subdivider may install individual sewage disposal systems
providing the lot size is in excess of 20,000 square feet. If such
installations are permitted, they shall be designed and installed in accordance
with the applicable provisions of the requirements and regulations of the
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, being 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq. of
the state’s Department of Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-47)
DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS
§ 158.190 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to protect and promote the public health,
safety and general welfare. The criteria for storm water detention will reduce
the possibility of damage to public and private property, will reduce the
erosion on land and creek channels, will assist in the attainment and
maintenance of water quality standards and will preserve and enhance the
environmental quality of the watercourses in the city. This criteria provides
uniform procedures for designing and checking the design of storm drainage
detention systems.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall not recommend the approval of any plat
unless, after consultation with the City Engineer, they determine that the
proposed provisions for storm water drainage are adequate. Drainage
improvements in the subdivision shall be coordinated with existing and planned
drainage improvements elsewhere so as to form an integrated municipal system.
The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of the
sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-49)
§ 158.191 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any activity, including subdivisions, that alters the surface
of the land to create additional impervious surfaces including, but not limited
to, pavement, buildings and structures, except:
      (1)   Additions to, improvements and repair of existing single-family and
duplex dwellings;
      (2)   Construction of any buildings, structures and/or appurtenant
service roads, drives and walks on a site having previously provided storm
water control as part of a larger unit of development consistent with the
original development plan;
      (3)   Remodeling, repair, replacement and improvements to any existing
structure or facility and appurtenances that does not increase the impervious
area on the site in excess of 10% or add one acre of impervious area; and
      (4)   Construction of any one new single-family or duplex dwelling unit,
irrespective of the site area on which the same may be situated.
   EMERGENCY SPILLWAY. A device or devices used to discharge water under
conditions of inflow that exceed the design inflow. The EMERGENCY SPILLWAY
functions primarily to prevent damage to the detention facility that would
permit the sudden release of impounded water. It shall be designed to handle
the runoff from a 100-year storm.
   FREEBOARD. The difference in elevation between the top of a structure such
as a dam or open channel and the maximum design water surface elevation or high
water mark and is an allowance against overtopping by waves or other transient
disturbances.
   IPSUSESCM. Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Manual, March 1982.
   PRINCIPAL SPILLWAY. A device such as an inlet, pipe, weir and the like to
discharge water during operation of the facility under the conditions of a 15-
year or less return frequency of the existing conditions, before the proposed
development.
   PRIVATE DETENTION FACILITY.
      (1)   Any detention facility located on and controlling discharge from a
site wholly owned and controlled by one owner and not platted for future
subdivision of ownership;
      (2)   Also, all facilities incorporating detention storage of storm water
in or on any of the following:
         (a)   Roofs of buildings or structures also used for other purposes;
         (b)   Paved or surfaced areas also used for other purposes; and
         (c)   Enclosed underground pipes or structures on private property
when the surface is used for other purposes.
   PUBLIC DETENTION FACILITY. Any detention facility controlling discharge from
a tributary area owned by more than one owner and/or platted for future
subdivision of ownership, except as defined as a private detention facility
herein.
   RATIONAL METHOD. An empirical formula for calculating peak rates of runoff
resulting from rainfall.
   TRIBUTARY AREA. All land draining to the point of consideration, regardless
of ownership.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-50)
§ 158.192 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all development within the limits of the
city. Residential developments having a total area of less than five acres, and
commercial or industrial developments having a total area of less than two
acres, may be given a waiver by the city in accordance with §
158.098 of this chapter, subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   The city retains the right to require detention storage in all cases
in which the proposed development will generate excess runoff that adversely
affects the carrying capacity of the receiving watercourse.
   (B)   Developments less than two acres with less than 30% of the area paved
and developments generating less than one cubic foot per second (CFS)/acre
increased runoff shall not be required to provide detention storage, unless
conditions (A) is applicable.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply for all newly platted areas and new
developments proposed after the date of passage of this chapter. All
development that have an approved preliminary plan by the Plan Commission at
the time of the approval of this chapter will not have to conform to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-52)
§ 158.193 AFFIDAVIT OF DISCLOSURE OF PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The effective acreage for a site is not limited to a fractional part of the
total. If a project is developed in phases or small plats, the total acreage of
the project site must be considered. At the time the owner of any development
submits a preliminary plat or preliminary plan, he or she shall also identify
to the city all contiguous property or property in the watershed that he or she
has interest in.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-53)
§ 158.194 METHOD OF EVALUATION.
   The storage capacity and discharge rate shall be based upon the calculated
volume and peak flow of the storm water runoff, respectively. The calculations
for sites having an area of 100 acres or less shall be made using either the
Illinois Urban Manual: Section 4 - Standards or the Rational Method. If the
site is larger than 100 acres then the Engineer shall use the Illinois Urban
Manual: Section 4 - Standards or if another method is desired to be used, the
Engineer shall submit a proposed method of evaluation for the calculations for
review and approval. The permitted discharge rate of storm water runoff shall
be determined by calculating the rate of runoff for the site’s pre and post
development conditions. The Engineer shall determine the most critical storm
looking at three different time periods: the time of concentration, a one-hour
storm and a 24-hour storm.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-54)
§ 158.195 DETENTION OF DIFFERENTIAL RUNOFF.
   All new developments shall provide a storm water system that insures that
the rate of flow of storm water runoff discharged from the site after
development does not exceed the rate of flow of storm water runoff discharged
from the site before development of a 25-year storm, unless given a waiver by
the city in accordance with §
158.098 of this chapter. Data shall be submitted for the 15-, 25- and 100- year
frequency storm.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-55)
§ 158.196 FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM AREAS.
   Flows from upstream areas outside the site should be based upon the
assumption that those areas are fully developed under forecast land use
patterns. The required storage volume will be based upon the site only, with
flows from upstream areas being by passed or discharged via overflow spillways
or other devices for the 100-year storm.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-56)
§ 158.197 FACILITIES IN FLOODPLAINS.
   (A)   If detention storage is provided within a floodplain, only the net
increase in storage volume above that which naturally existed on the floodplain
shall be credited to the development. No credit will be granted for volumes
below the elevation of the base flood at that location unless compensatory
storage is also provided.
   (B)   Where encroachments in the existing floodplain fill the valley storage
areas, an equal amount of detention volume shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-57)
§ 158.198 LAND CREDIT FOR DETENTION FACILITIES.
   The number of units/lots shall be based on the total area of the tract to be
developed. All areas to be used as detention facilities shall be included in
this total area.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-58)
DESIGN CRITERIA
§ 158.210 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The design shall be accomplished under the direction of a registered
professional engineer. The design shall also be based on land use in the
tributary area as zoned, actually developed or indicated by an adopted future
land use plan, whichever basis produces the greatest runoff.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-60)
§ 158.211 OTHER REFERENCES.
   Other agencies have criteria and regulations pertaining to drainage systems
which may complement this criteria. When conflicts are encountered, the most
rigorous criteria shall govern:
   (A)   Federal insurance agency. Floodplain regulations and implementing
ordinances adopted by municipalities: drainage systems designed within the
limits of the designated 100-year floodplain on the principal stream shall be
designed to convey the flood as defined by applicable published floodplain
information studies. For areas located in FIA Zone “A” outside the detailed
study area, the developer shall prepare studies and calculations establishing
the floodplain, elevation and width. These calculations shall be submitted to
the reviewing agency for approval; and
   (B)   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. Urban Manual: A Technical
Manual Designed for Urban Ecosystem Protection and Enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-61)
§ 158.212 STORM WATER RUNOFF.
   The design criteria used in determining the amount of runoff shall be the
same as set out in §
158.190 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-62)
§ 158.213 HYDRAULIC CONSIDERATIONS FOR DETENTION STORAGE.
   (A)   Principal spillways. Principal spillways shall be designed to meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The principal spillway shall be designed to function without
requiring attendance or operation of any kind or requiring use of equipment or
tools.
      (2)   All discharge from the detention facility when inflow is equal to
or less than the 100-year inflow shall be via the principal spillway(s).
      (3)   The design shall allow for discharge of at least 80% of the
detention storage volume within 24 hours after the peak or center of mass of
the inflow has entered the detention basin. On basins less than 100 acres, this
shall not apply.
      (4)   The design discharge rate via the spillway shall continuously
increase with increasing head and shall have hydraulic characteristics similar
to weirs, orifices or pipes.
   (B)   Emergency spillways. The emergency spillway shall be provided to pass
a 100-year storm without damaging any property and, where applicable, designed
to the state’s Department of Water Resources Dam Safety Requirements.
   (C)   Outlet works. This shall have an outlet works consisting of valves,
gates, pipes and other devices as necessary to completely drain the facility in
72 hours or less when required for maintenance or inspection on normally wet
basins.
   (D)   Sediment storage. This shall be designed to provide for five years of
sediment accumulation. All other detention facilities shall provide storage for
two years of sediment accumulation, except for those using roofs of buildings,
paved parking areas or other facilities designed to preclude the deposition or
accumulation of sediment. Sediment storage volume shall be in addition to the
volume required for temporary storage of storm water to properly size the
detention facility on normally wet basins.
   (E)   Erosion control. Principal spillways and outlet works shall be
designed to prevent erosion and if necessary equipped with energy dissipating
devices to slow the water to normal velocity as called out in the IPSUSESC
Manual. Special measures shall be taken by the developer to not permit sediment
from filling the proposed detention basin during all construction of the
proposed development.
   (F)   Public detention facilities. The owner shall dedicate the detention
facility and easements as set forth upon completion of the one-year warranty
period and approval by the City Engineer, except:
      (1)   When multipurpose wet facilities are planned or are suitable for
use for private aquatic recreation or for aesthetic enhancement of the owner’s
property; and
      (2)   When multipurpose dry facilities incorporate surface recreational
improvements.
   (G)   Private detention facilities.
      (1)   Shall be designed requiring the same criteria as the public
detention facilities;
      (2)   The amount of easement shall be equal to the land occupied by the
facility plus a 20-foot wide strip around the perimeter of the highest
elevation attained by the design storage volume, plus an excess easement 20
feet in width between the facility and public street. This easement shall be
shown as common ground or be dedicated to the trustees of the subdivision or
owner of the property for the purpose of maintenance of the storm water
detention facility; and
      (3)   A plan for perpetual maintenance and designating responsibility for
the maintenance shall be provided for its continuing performance to the
standards established by this criteria.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-63) (Ord. 21-651, passed 9-9-2021)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 158.225 ESTABLISHED.
   A Plan Commission is hereby created under authority of 65 ILCS 5/11-12-
4 through 5/11-12-12.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 158.226 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members; said members to be
residents of the city, appointed by the Mayor and the City Council, on the
basis of their particular fitness for their duty on the Plan Commission and
subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 158.227 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The members shall serve for a period of five years. Vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term only. All members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation; except that, if the Council deems
it advisable, they may receive such compensation as provided by the City
Council by appropriation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 158.228 PROCEDURE.
   The Plan Commission shall elect such officers as it may deem necessary and
adopt rules and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with the
City Code and state law. The Commission shall keep written records of its
proceedings. It shall be open at all times for and to the inspection of the
public, and the Commission shall file an annual report with the Mayor and City
Council, setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 158.229 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   (1)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the city and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits of the city and not included in any other municipality.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan or
part thereof of the city. Such plan shall be advisory, except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the City Council;
and
      (2)   All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of the plan and ordinances with
the City Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide for
the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the city and
contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish reasonable standards
of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of
areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as herein
defined and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the location,
width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage
collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become
regulatory only when adopted by law.
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the city and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   (C)   To recommend to the City Council, from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary;
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance to the official
comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts thereof,
to further the making of such improvements and generally, to promote the
realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (G)   To cooperate with municipal or regional plan commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local plan program and to assure harmonious
and integrated planning for the area subject to approval of the City Council;
and
   (H)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the state, as may be conferred
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 158.230 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION AND THE OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which may consist of the whole area included within
the official comprehensive plan or one or more geographical or functional parts
and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area within
one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the city. All requirements
for public hearing, filing notice of adoption with the county’s Recorder of
Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances, including the official map with
the Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. No map or plat of any
subdivision or re-subdivision presented for record affecting land within the
corporate limits of the city or within contiguous territory which is not more
than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled to
record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for
standards of design and standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways
for public service facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to
be used for residential purposes, and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage
collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of this
chapter, including the official map.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-12
§ 158.231 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission for its consideration, a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 158.232 FURTHER PURPOSES.
   The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of districts for land use and
shall recommend regulations to the corporate authorities for the following:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along the street, traffic way, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings;
   (D)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces or other classification), as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purpose of this section;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 158.233 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures of the Commission shall be at the discretion of the City
Council and if the Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical
advice or services, it shall be done upon authority of the City Council and
appropriations by the City Council therefor.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including conditions and safeguards established shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-72)
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful actions as is necessary to forbid or remedy any violations. All such
costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-73)
   (C)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to the penalty
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-74)
CHAPTER 159: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
159.001   Title
   
159.002   Purpose
   
159.003   Jurisdiction
   
159.004   Interpretation
   
159.005   Disclaimer of liability
   
159.006   Definitions
   
159.007   Parabolic or dish-type antennas
   
159.008   Buildings
General Regulations
   
159.020   Establishment of districts
   
159.021   Zoning map and district boundaries
   
159.022   Annual publication
   
159.023   Determining territory of districts with precision
   
159.024   Annexed territory
   
159.025   General prohibition
   
159.026   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
159.027   Meeting minimum requirements
   
159.028   Access required
   
159.029   Front setbacks; corner/through lots
   
159.030   Front setbacks in certain built up areas
   
159.031   Intrusions into yards
   
159.032   Exceptions to height limits
   
159.033   Sewers, septic tanks
   
159.034   Accessory uses
   
159.035   Accessory use restrictions
   
159.036   Area bulk restrictions
Planned Developments
   
159.050   Definition
   
159.051   Objectives
   
159.052   Compliance with regulations generally required
   
159.053   Districts where allowed
   
159.054   Permissible deviation from code requirements
   
159.055   Procedures for planned developments
   
159.056   Application; information required
   
159.057   Criteria considered
   
159.058   Decision by Zoning Board of Appeals
   
159.059   Changes in approved plans
   
159.060   Failure to begin development
   
159.061   Municipal exemption
“A” (A-1) Agricultural District
   
159.075   District outline
   
159.076   One dwelling on one lot
   
159.077   Lot and building requirements
   
159.078   Permitted uses
   
159.079   Special uses
“SR-1” Single-Family Residence District (Large Lot)
   
159.090   District outline
   
159.091   Special restrictions
   
159.092   Lot and building requirements
   
159.093   Permitted uses
   
159.094   Special uses
“SR-2” Single-Family District (Small Lot)
   
159.105   District outline
   
159.106   Special restrictions
   
159.107   Lot and building requirements
   
159.108   Permitted uses
   
159.109   Special uses
“M-1” Two-Family Residence District
   
159.120   District outline
   
159.121   Special restrictions
   
159.122   Lot and building requirements
   
159.123   Permitted uses
   
159.124   Special uses
“M-2” Multiple-Family Residence District
   
159.135   District outline
   
159.136   Lot and building requirements
   
159.137   Permitted uses
   
159.138   Special uses
Mobile Housing District
   
159.150   District outline
   
159.151   Mobile home/manufactured housing lot ownership
   
159.152   Lot and building requirements
   
159.153   Permitted uses
   
159.154   Special uses
   
159.155   Mobile home parks
“B-1” Community Business District
   
159.170   District outline
   
159.171   Lot and building requirements
   
159.172   Permitted uses
   
159.173   Special uses
“B-2” Highway Business District
   
159.185   District outline
   
159.186   Use restrictions
   
159.187   Lot and building requirements
   
159.188   Permitted uses
   
159.189   Special uses
“I” Industrial District
   
159.200   District outline
   
159.201   Use restriction
   
159.202   Lot and structure requirements
   
159.203   Permitted uses
   
159.204   Special uses
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
159.215   Applicability
   
159.216   Existing parking/loading facilities
   
159.217   Parking lot design standards
   
159.218   Spaces
   
159.219   Interior aisles
   
159.220   Access ways
   
159.221   Surfacing
   
159.222   Lighting
   
159.223   Landscaping
   
159.224   Location of parking
   
159.225   Design and location of off-street loading facilities
   
159.226   Computation of required parking/loading spaces
   
159.227   Number of parking and loading spaces required
Additional Supplementary Regulations
   
159.240   Applicability
   
159.241   Fences, walls
   
159.242   Home occupations
   
159.243   Junk yards
   
159.244   Nursing homes
   
159.245   Recreational vehicles
   
159.246   Service stations
   
159.247   Swimming pools
   
159.248   Utility substations
   
159.249   Lighting controls
Non-Conformities
   
159.260   Nature of non-conformities
   
159.261   Non-conforming lots
   
159.262   Two or more lots in common ownership
   
159.263   Non-conforming structures
   
159.264   Non-conforming uses occupying a structure
   
159.265   Non-conforming use of land
   
159.266   Non-conformities under permit authority
Administration and Enforcement
   
159.280   Appointment and duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
159.281   Initial certificates of zoning compliance
   
159.282   Application
   
159.283   Duration of certificate
   
159.284   Relationship to building permits
   
159.285   Final certificates of zoning compliance
   
159.286   Corrective action orders
   
159.287   Contents of order
   
159.288   Service of order
   
159.289   Stop orders
   
159.290   Emergency measures
   
159.291   Complaints
   
159.292   Fees
Board of Appeals
   
159.305   Established
   
159.306   Membership, appointment, compensation
   
159.307   Term of office; vacancies
   
159.308   Meeting; quorum
   
159.309   Records
   
159.310   Decisions
   
159.311   Period of validity
   
159.312   Finality of decisions of the Board
   
159.313   Office of the Secretary of the Board
Appeals
   
159.325   Allowed to appeal
   
159.326   Filing; record transmittal
   
159.327   Stay of further proceedings
   
159.328   Public hearing; notice
   
159.329   Decision by Board of Appeals
Variances
   
159.340   Definition
   
159.341   Application
   
159.342   Public hearing; notice
   
159.343   Standards for variances
   
159.344   Terms of relief; findings of fact
Special Uses
   
159.355   Permits
   
159.356   Application
   
159.357   Public hearing; notice
   
159.358   Factors considered by the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
159.359   Decision; findings of fact
Amendments
   
159.370   Amendments
   
159.371   Filing
   
159.372   Public hearing; notice
   
159.373   Advisory report; findings of fact
   
159.374   Action by City Council
 
   
159.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and cited as the “Zoning Code of the City of
Carrollton, Illinois”.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-1)
§ 159.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, this chapter regulates lots, structures
and uses in order to preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety
and welfare.
   (B)   More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving the
following objectives:
      (1)   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate
sites in order to maximize community wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on inappropriate sites;
      (2)   To assist in implementing the city’s Community Plan;
      (3)   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound
existing residential, commercial and industrial areas and to gradually
eliminate non-conforming uses and structures;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout
the city;
      (5)   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air and privacy for the
occupants of all buildings;
      (6)   To protect persons and property from damage caused by fire,
flooding and improper sewage disposal;
      (7)   To provide adequate and well-designed parking and loading space for
all buildings and uses and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public streets
and highways;
      (8)   To ensure the proper design and improvement of mobile home parks;
      (9)   To promote the use of signs which are safe, aesthetically pleasing,
compatible with their surroundings and legible in the circumstances in which
they are seen; and
      (10)   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement
of all the substantive regulations in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
§ 159.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the city and
one and one-half miles outside of the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-3)
§ 159.004 INTERPRETATION.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
municipality, and every requirement imposed in this chapter shall be deemed
minimal. Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements
of any other lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed restriction or
covenant, the more stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-4)
§ 159.005 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent or employee of the municipality shall render
himself or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent or employee
of the municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the
Municipal Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, see 745
ILCS 10/1-101
§ 159.006 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of terms. In construing the intended meaning of
terminology used in this chapter, the following rules shall be observed.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in division (B) below unless the context clearly indicates otherwise;
terms not defined in division (B) below shall have their standard English
meanings.
      (2)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and the plural shall include the singular.
      (5)   The term “shall” is mandatory; the term “may” is discretionary.
      (6)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
      (7)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions
within that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only
that division.
      (8)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of
specific terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly
limited.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABUTTING. Having a common lot line or district line. Synonym for ADJACENT
or ADJOINING.
      ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, driveway or other means for providing
vehicular access to an off-street parking or loading area.
      ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
         (a)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal use or structure
which it serves;
         (b)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal use or structure served; and
         (c)   Located on the same lot as the principal use or structure
served.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council, or his or her representative to administer this
chapter. Synonymous with ZONING ADMINISTRATOR or ZONING OFFICIAL.
      AGRICULTURE. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops; dairying; pasturage; horticulture; floriculture; or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the farmhouse and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
      AISLE. A vehicular traffic-way within an off-street parking area, used as
a means of access/ egress from parking spaces.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
      ALTER. To change the size, shape or use of a structure, or the moving
from one location to another.
      AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including the
district map), properly effected in accordance with state law and the
procedures set forth herein.
      ANCHOR. Any approved device to which a mobile home is tied down to keep
it firmly attached to the stand on which it is placed.
      ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, having a common wall and/or a common
roof.
      BASEMENT. A story having more than one-half of its height below the
average level of the adjoining ground.
      BILLBOARD. Any single- or double-faced sign displaying messages or
advertising not associated with the premises on which the sign is located or to
which it is affixed.
      BITUMINOUS CONCRETE. A mixture of petroleum by-products and gravel used
for paving to form a smooth, permanent surface. It does not mean “oil and
chip”.
      BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or way), or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of- way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
      BOARD OF APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the city.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals
are provided for compensation to three or more persons, but not more than ten
who are not members of the keeper’s family, but not open on a daily, overnight
or per meal basis to transient guests.
      BUFFER STRIP. An area of land undeveloped except for landscaping fences
and the like, used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious
effects of the use on the adjacent lot.
      BUILDING. Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed
or used to shelter persons or chattels.
      BUILDING OR STRUCTURE HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the
average grade at the front wall of a building to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot,
delineating the minimum open space required between the front of a structure
and the street right-of-way line.
      BUILT-ON-SITE HOUSING. No parts (except roof/floor trusses) of the
building have been pre-cut, pre-fabricated or pre-assembled at another
location. All construction of the dwelling unit for one or more persons occurs
at the building site. All BUILT-ON-SITE HOUSING shall be built on permanent
perimeter foundation walls. All BUILT-ON-SITE HOUSING shall be attached/secured
to the foundation walls using accepted building practices. There shall be a
limit of one BUILT-ON-SITE HOUSING per lot.
      BULK. Any one or any combination of the following structural or site
design characteristics:
         (a)   Size or height of structure;
         (b)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot
lines, streets or other structures;
         (c)   Lot area; and
         (d)   Yards or setbacks.
      CENTERLINE.
         (a)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
         (b)   The original centerline, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; and
         (c)   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
      CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, FINAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that a lot or newly completed structure or use
complied with all pertinent requirements of this chapter and, therefore, may be
occupied or used.
      CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, INITIAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that proposed lot, structure or use is in conformity
with the requirements of this chapter.
      CITY. Either the territory or the local government of the municipality.
      CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm and injured persons, but who are not provided with room or
board, nor kept overnight on the premises.
      CLUB/LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
      COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
      CONFORMING. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
      CONVENIENCE/GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A building or premises or portion
thereof used for retail sales of gasoline, oil and accessories of motor
vehicles and general convenience service goods to include the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages, not for consumption on the premises where it is sold.
      CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER. A legally binding order issued by the
Administrator in accordance with the procedures set forth herein to effect
compliance with this chapter.
      DAY CARE CENTER. An establishment for the part-time care and/or
instruction at any time of day of four or more unrelated children of pre-
elementary or elementary school age.
      DETACHED. As applied to buildings, surrounded by yards on the same lot as
the building.
      DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract
of land or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
      DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
      DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the city wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of this chapter.
      DRIVEWAY. A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or
off-street parking area.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels and
other accommodations for the transient public.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three
or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit and
intended for the occupancy of one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. Two or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by
one family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
      EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s real property for certain
limited purposes.
      ENCLOSED. As applied to a building, covered by a permanent roof and
separated on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed
exterior walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
      ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
      ERECT. To build or construct.
      ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. The erection,
construction, alteration, or maintenance by public utilities or municipal
departments, or underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or
disposal system, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utilities or the furnishing of adequate service
by such public utilities or municipal departments or commissions or for the
public health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
         (a)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity
that is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
         (b)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity
that occupies a portion of a building such that:
            1.   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
            2.   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior
of the building or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined
entryway that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
      EXISTING. Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date of
this chapter.
      EXTERIOR SIDING. The exterior walls of permanent dwellings shall be
covered with some conventional type of siding such as: brick; brick veneer;
aluminum; vinyl; exterior siding plywood; redwood; masonite; and the like. Any
type of insulation board, sheathing plywood, particle board, OSB flakeboard or
other type of flakeboard shall not be construed to be exterior siding, and its
use is strictly prohibited.
      FAMILY.
         (a)   A single individual doing his or her own cooking and living upon
the premises as a separate housekeeping unit;
         (b)   A collective body of persons doing their own cooking and living
together upon the premises as a separate housekeeping unit in a domestic
relationship based upon birth, marriage, adoption or employment as domestic
servants; or
         (c)   A group of not more than three unrelated persons doing their own
cooking and living together on the premises as a separate housekeeping unit
pursuant to a mutual housekeeping agreement (not including a group occupying a
boarding or rooming house, club, fraternity or hotel).
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the center of the common walls of attached buildings. GROSS FLOOR AREA
includes basement floors; attic floor space; halls; closets; stairwells; space
devoted to mechanical equipment; and enclosed porches.
      FOOTING. Located at the lower end of a foundation wall, foundation pier
or foundation column to distribute the load. FOOTING material shall be poured
concrete. The minimum width is 24 inches and the minimum thickness shall be
eight inches. The FOOTING shall contain a minimum of two one-half inch rebar
spaced 12 inches apart, and running the length of the footing. The bottom of
the footing shall be 36 inches below the finished surface of the soil.
      FREIGHT TERMINAL. As applied to motor carriers subject to 625 ILCS 18c-
1101 et seq., a station for commercial motor vehicles wherein said motor trucks
are stored, repaired or parked.
      FRONTAGE. The linear extent of the front (street side) of a lot or
establishment.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage for four or less passenger motor vehicles
without provision for repairing or servicing such vehicle(s) for profit.
      GREENHOUSE. See NURSERY.
      HEREAFTER. Any time after the effective date of this chapter.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, profession or occupation conducted for
gain entirely within a dwelling or on residential premises in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
      ILLINOIS MOBILE HOME TIEDOWN ACT. All mobile homes or manufactured
housing moved or set up on site after 1-1-1980 must meet these standards
(within 30 days after the home is set up on the site), within 30 days from the
date of installation, the owner of each mobile home or manufactured housing
must file a tiedown report on forms available from the Department of Public
Health.
      INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally, streets) meet.
      JUNK YARD. A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon,
that is used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing,
disassembling or handling waste or scrap materials. Such scrap materials
include vehicles, machinery and equipment not in operable condition (or parts
thereof), and metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags and rubber tires. A lot on
which three or more inoperable or abandoned vehicles stored shall be deemed a
JUNK YARD.
      KENNEL. Any structure or lot on which five or more domesticated animals
over four months of age are kept.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
      LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether
immediate or future) of transfer of ownership or development. A LOT may or may
not coincide with a “lot of record”.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two approximately parallel streets.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and
rear lines of a lot.
      LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line abutting the street.
      LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A SIDE
LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is called a side street lot line. A
SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior
side lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision recorded with the county’s Recorder of Deeds in accordance with
state law.
      LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS. This term refers to the lot area, width and depth
requirements of the applicable district.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles to
the side lot lines at the building line.
      MAINTENANCE. The routine upkeep of a structure, premises or equipment
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep said structure in sound condition.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING (IMMOBILIZED).
         (a)   A MANUFACTURED HOUSING (SINGLE SECTION) located on a permanent
foundation with wood, metal or fiberglass skirting or permanent perimeter
foundation walls, and anchored/secured per the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act,
being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. All wheels, tongue and hitch shall be permanently
removed. Axles may be removed.
         (b)   A MANUFACTURED HOUSING (MULTIPLE SECTION) located on permanent
perimeter foundation walls, and anchored/secured per the state’s Mobile Home
Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. All wheels, tongues and hitches shall
be permanently removed. Axles may be removed.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING (MULTIPLE SECTION). Two or more sections of a
completely constructed factory structure, transported from the place of their
construction to the location where they are assembled together to form a
permanent dwelling unit for one or more persons. These structures have a
manufactured date of 7-1-1976 or later, and meet the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards (i.e., HUD Code). MANUFACTURED
HOUSING (MULTIPLE SECTION) shall be installed on permanent perimeter foundation
walls and anchored/secured per the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210
ILCS 120/1 et seq. MANUFACTURED HOUSING (MULTIPLE SECTION) shall not be
construed to be “mobile home (double wide)”, “modular housing” or “pre-
fabricated housing”. A copy of the manufactured housing title shall be on
record, in the Zoning Administrator’s office, prior to applying for a permit to
install or replace such housing. The actual title number on housing shall be
verified against title number on record by the Zoning Administrator prior to
unit being placed on its foundation. There shall be a limit of one MANUFACTURED
HOUSING (MULTIPLE SECTION) per lot.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING (SINGLE SECTION). A completely assembled factory
structure (manufactured 7-1-1976 or later), so constructed as to permit its
transport on wheels (temporarily or permanently attached to its frame) from the
place of its construction to the location, or subsequent location, at which it
is intended to be a permanent dwelling unit for one or more persons. These
structures conform to the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards (i.e., HUD Code). MANUFACTURED HOUSING (SINGLE SECTION) shall be
installed on permanent perimeter foundation walls or a permanent foundation
with wood, metal or fiberglass skirting between the mobile home and the top of
the ground. A MANUFACTURED HOUSING (SINGLE SECTION) shall be anchored/secured
in accordance with the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et
seq. MANUFACTURED HOUSING (SINGLE SECTION) shall not be construed to be a
camping trailer, recreational vehicle or a “mobile home (single wide)”. Any
additions (living space, garage or storage and the like) to a MANUFACTURED
HOUSING (SINGLE SECTION) shall be strictly prohibited. A copy of the
manufactured housing title shall be on record, in the Zoning Administrator’s
office, prior to applying for a permit to install or replace such housing. The
actual title number on housing shall be verified against title number on record
by the Zoning Administrator prior to unit being placed on its foundation. The
addition of poles/framework around the perimeter of a MANUFACTURED HOUSING
(SINGLE SECTION) for the purpose of supporting a roof or siding shall be
strictly prohibited. There shall be a limit of one MANUFACTURED HOUSING (SINGLE
SECTION) per lot.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of not less than two acres in area in single
ownership/ control, developed with facilities for accommodating occupied mobile
homes in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and Ch. 151 of this
code of ordinances.
      MOBILE HOME (DOUBLE WIDE). The two halves of a completely constructed
factory structure, so constructed as to permit their transport on wheels
(temporarily or permanently attached to their frames) from the place of
construction to the location or subsequent location where they are attached
together to form a permanent dwelling unit for one or more persons. MOBILE HOME
(DOUBLE WIDE) structures manufactured prior to 7-1-1976 may or may not meet the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (i.e., HUD
Code). (Note: a red label affixed to the perimeter of the home signified it met
the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (i.e., HUD
Code) at the time of construction.) A MOBILE HOME (DOUBLE WIDE) shall be
installed on permanent perimeter foundation walls. A MOBILE HOME (DOUBLE WIDE)
shall be anchored/secured in accordance with the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown
Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. A MOBILE HOME (DOUBLE WIDE) shall not be
construed to include “modular housing” or “manufactured housing (multiple
section)”. Any additions (living space, garage or storage, and the like) to a
MOBILE HOME (DOUBLE WIDE) shall be strictly prohibited. A copy of the mobile
home title shall be on record, in the Zoning Administrator’s office, prior to
applying for a permit to install or replace such housing. The actual title
number on housing shall be verified against title number on record by the
Zoning Administrator prior to unit being placed on its foundation. The addition
of poles/framework around the perimeter of a MOBILE HOME (DOUBLE WIDE) for the
purpose of supporting a roof or siding shall be strictly prohibited. There
shall be a limit of one mobile home (single wide) per lot.
      MOBILE HOME (IMMOBILIZED).
         (a)   A MOBILE HOME (SINGLE WIDE) located on a permanent foundation or
permanent perimeter foundation walls and anchored/secured per the state’s
Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. All wheels, tongue and
hitch shall be permanently removed. Axles may be removed.
         (b)   A MOBILE HOME (DOUBLE WIDE) located on a permanent perimeter
foundation walls, and anchored/secured per the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act,
being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. All wheels, tongues and hitches shall be
permanently removed. Axles may be removed.
      MOBILE HOME (SINGLE WIDE). A completely assembled factory structure
(manufactured prior to 7-1-1976), so constructed as to permit its transport on
wheels (temporarily or permanently attached to its frame) from the place of its
construction to the location, or subsequent location, at which it is intended
to be a permanent dwelling unit for one or more persons. MOBILE HOME (SINGLE
WIDE) structures manufactured prior to 7-1-1976 may or may not meet the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (i.e., HUD
Code). (Note: a red label affixed to the perimeter of the home signified it met
the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (i.e., HUD
Code) at the time of construction.) A MOBILE HOME (SINGLE WIDE) shall be
installed on permanent perimeter foundation walls or a permanent foundation
with wood, metal or fiberglass skirting between the mobile home and the top of
the ground. A MOBILE HOME (SINGLE WIDE) shall be anchored/secured in accordance
with the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. A MOBILE
HOME (SINGLE WIDE) shall not be confused with a camping trailer, recreational
vehicle or manufactured housing (single section). Any additions (living space,
garage or storage and the like) to a MOBILE HOME (SINGLE WIDE) shall be
strictly prohibited. A copy of the mobile home title shall be on record, in the
Zoning Administrator’s office, prior to applying for a permit to install or
replace such housing. The actual title number on housing shall be verified
against title number on record by the Zoning Administrator prior to unit being
placed on its foundation. The addition of poles/ framework around the perimeter
of a MOBILE HOME (SINGLE WIDE) for the purpose of supporting a roof or siding
shall be strictly prohibited. There shall be a limit of one MOBILE HOME (SINGLE
WIDE) per lot.
      MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of a mobile home space beneath the mobile
home that includes the concrete slab on which the home is placed and to which
it is anchored.
      MOBILE OR PORTABLE MARQUEE. Used to describe any sign designed to be
moved from place to place, including, but not limited to, signs attached to
wood or metal frames designed to be self-supporting and movable; or paper,
cardboard or canvas signs wrapped around supporting poles.
      MODULAR HOUSING. Factory-fabricated “units,” transported to a building
site, assembled together and attached/secured on permanent perimeter foundation
walls per manufacturers specifications. MODULAR HOUSING is designated for use
as a permanent dwelling unit for one or more persons. MODULAR HOUSING shall not
be construed to include mobile home (single wide), mobile home (double wide),
mobile home (immobilized), manufactured housing (single section), manufactured
housing (multiple section), manufactured housing (immobilized), pre-fabricated
housing, pre-cut housing or built-on-site housing. The electrical panel box of
each MODULAR HOUSING shall have the yellow seal in the shape of the state. For
units produced in Indiana under the reciprocal agreement, the Indiana seal
meets this requirement. There shall be a limit of one MODULAR HOUSING per lot.
      MOTEL or MOTOR HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached or detached
sleeping or living units for the accommodation of transient guests and not
customarily including individual cooking or kitchen facilities; said units
having convenient access to off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of
the guests or occupants.
      NON-CONFORMING. As applied to a lot, structure or use:
         (a)   Lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter; but
         (b)   Not in compliance with the applicable provisions thereof.
      NUISANCE. Any thing, condition or conduct that endangers health or
unreasonably offends the senses or obstructs the free use of property or
essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs and other plants are
raised for transplanting and/or sale, and including any structure in which said
activities are conducted.
      NURSERY SCHOOL or DAY CARE CENTER. An establishment for the part-time
care and/or instruction at any time of day of four or more unrelated children
of pre elementary or elementary school age.
      NURSING HOME. A building used as a medical care facility for persons who
need nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive hospital
care.
      OFFICE. Any building or portion thereof in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
      OFFICIAL MAP. The portion of the master plan which designates land
necessary for public facilities or uses. It shall include streets, alleys,
public ways, parks, playgrounds, school sites and other public grounds and ways
for public service facilities within the whole area included within the
official comprehensive plan. It can be one or more separate geographical or
functional parts or include all or any part of the contiguous, unincorporated
area under the planning jurisdiction of the city.
      OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district superimposed over one or more
standard (primary) zoning districts or portions thereof for the purpose of
controlling developmental problems caused by such factors as steep slopes, wet
soils, flooding and the like.
      PARKING AREA/LOT, OFF-STREET. Land that is improved in accordance with
this chapter and used primarily for the storage of passenger motor vehicles,
free of charge or for compensation. An OFF-STREET PARKING LOT, depending on the
circumstances of its use, may be either a principal use or an accessory use.
      PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL. Land that is improved in accordance with this
chapter and shall be limited to automobiles and trucks one ton and under.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area at least 20 feet long and ten feet
wide within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A wall (minimum all thickness shall be eight
inches), pier or column of poured concrete or mortared blocks. A PERMANENT
FOUNDATION shall be supported by a footing located 36 inches below the finished
surface of the soil. As an alternative, mortared brick may be used in place of
mortared blocks, but shall not be used below the surface of the soil.
      PERMANENT PERIMETER FOUNDATION WALL. A wall of poured concrete or
mortared blocks which support the perimeter walls of a building, minimum wall
thickness shall be eight inches. The wall shall be supported by a footing
located 36 inches below the finished surface of the soil. As an alternative,
mortared brick may be used in place of mortared blocks, but shall not be used
below the surface of the soil.
      PERMITTED USE. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district(s); provided, it conforms with all the requirements
applicable to said district(s).
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, organization or corporate
body.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. A residential or commercial development on a
parcel of land in single ownership and consisting of two or more buildings
having any yard, court, parking or loading space in common.
      PRE-CUT HOUSING. Parts of the building are pre-cut at a factory or other
location and then transported to the building site. These pieces will be used
at the building site, along with other materials, in the construction of a
permanent dwelling unit for one or more persons. All PRE-CUT HOUSING shall be
built on permanent perimeter foundation walls. All PRE-CUT HOUSING shall be
attached/ secured to the foundation walls using accepted building practices.
PRE-CUT HOUSING shall not be construed to include pre-fabricated housing. There
shall be a limit of one PRE-CUT HOUSING per lot.
      PRE-FABRICATED HOUSING. Components of the building are pre-fabricated at
a factory or other location, then transported to the building site. These pre-
fabricated components (i.e., outer wall sections, interior walls, subfloor
sections, trusses and the like) along with other materials, will be assembled
at the building site to complete a permanent dwelling unit for one or more
persons. All PRE-FABRICATED HOUSING shall be built on permanent perimeter
foundation walls. All PRE- FABRICATED HOUSING shall be attached/secured to the
foundation walls per manufacturers specifications. PRE-FABRICATED HOUSING shall
not be construed to include mobile home (single wide), mobile home (double
wide), manufactured housing (single section), manufactured housing (multiple
section) or modular housing. There shall be a limit of one PRE-FABRICATED
HOUSING per lot.
      PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the
main use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate)
structure or use.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office (other than a service office and other
than an office for care and/or treatment of or medical attention to, animals as
distinguished from persons) for the practice of professions, such as the
offices of physicians, dentists, attorneys-at-law, architects or engineers
qualified to perform services of a professional nature, or the offices of a
governmental agency; and where there is no storage, sale or display of
merchandise on the premises.
      PROPERTY LINE. See LOT LINE.
      PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Any building owned, operated, constructed or maintained
at the expense of the public or a building which provides a service or function
necessary for the general health, welfare and convenience of the public.
      PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly-owned open area, including, but not
limited to, the following: parks; playgrounds; forest preserves; beaches;
waterways; parkways; and streets.
      PUBLIC UTILITIES. Utilities which are either government-owned or owned by
an established firm serving a wide geographical area and/or a substantial
number of persons.
      QUICK SHOP. Any small retail commercial or service establishment offering
goods/services primarily to the residents of a particular multi-family complex,
mobile home park or similar development.
      RECONSTRUCT. As applied to non-conforming structures, to rebuild after
damage or destruction.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. This encompasses any type of vehicle used primarily
for pleasure, such as travel trailers, motor homes, boats, snowmobiles and the
like.
      REFUSE. Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial
wastes.
      RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
      REPAIR. To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
      RESTRICTIVE. Tending to keep within prescribed limits.
      RETAIL. This refers to the sale of goods and services directly to the
consumer rather than to another business.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or to another unit of government for streets and alleys.
      ROOF LINE. A horizontal line parallel to the average ground level of a
building along the front thereof, which line delineates the highest point of a
flat roof; or where the flat surface area of a gable, hip, mansard or gambrel
roof is in view from the ground level, the line of demarcation between the flat
surface and the vertically structured facade; or the line along the front of a
building delineating the roof line between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and
gambrel roofs.
      SCREENING. Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences and the like used as a
means of view and noise control.
      SEMI-FINISHED MATERIALS. Materials which have been sufficiently processed
at heavy industrial facilities so that they are no longer in their raw state,
but are readily usable by light industry for assembly or manufacture into
consumer goods.
      SERVICE BUILDING. A structure within a mobile home park or travel trailer
park that contains toilet facilities, clothes washers and dryers and in some
instances, a convenience store.
      SERVICE STATION. A building and premises or portion thereof designed and
used for the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil, and
automotive parts, supplies and accessories. A SERVICE STATION may include
facilities for washing vehicles and for making minor automotive repairs.
      SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment where services are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
      SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the front lot line in question to
the side of the structure facing that lot line or to the edge of the area of
operation of the principal use (in the case of a use which does not involve a
structure).
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT, PRIVATE. Any properly constructed disposal system
intended for the treatment of wastewaters from more than one residence and/or
building unit.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure or part thereof used to
advertise, identify, display or attract attention to a person, establishment,
product, service or event by any means including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illuminations and the like. The term SIGN
includes, but is not limited to: every projecting sign, freestanding sign,
awning, canopy, marquee sign; changeable copy sign, illuminated sign; moving
sign, temporary sign; portable sign; or other display whether affixed to a
building or erected elsewhere on the premises. The term SIGN excludes features
of a building which are an integral part of the building’s design (e.g., the
“castle-look” of a White Castle restaurant).
      SIGN, CANOPY/MARQUEE. Any sign affixed to, painted on or suspended from
an awning, canopy, marquee or similar overhang.
      SIGN, FLUSH-MOUNTED. Any sign attached to or erected against a wall of a
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately parallel
to the plane of the wall and not projecting more than 18 inches. A FLUSH-
MOUNTED SIGN displays only messages associated with the building to which said
sign is attached.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces placed in or upon the ground; or any sign supported by any structure
erected primarily for the display and support of the sign; provided that, a
freestanding sign displays only messages associated with the structure to which
it is attached.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is suspended from or supported by a
wall, awning, canopy, marquee and the like and which is approximately
perpendicular thereto. A PROJECTING SIGN displays only messages associated with
the structure to which it is attached.
      SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the message and the background thereof,
calculated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE. The maximum total sign area of all signs that an
establishment is permitted to display.
      SKIRTING. The covering affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to conceal the underside thereof.
      SPECIAL USE. A use that has unusual operational, physical or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district and are allowed only by permit.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter to regulate development of a special use.
      STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action order used by the Administrator
to halt work in progress that is in violation of this chapter.
      STORAGE SHED/BUILDING. An accessory building designed for storing
chattels/ possessions. A STORAGE SHED/BUILDING shall have a minimum of three
walls and roof. A STORAGE SHED/BUILDING shall not be construed to be any of the
following: any type of truck body; vehicle of any type; vehicle “slide-in”
unit; any type of railroad cars; “Conex” boxes; mobile home (single or double
wide); or manufactured housing (single section or multiple section).
      STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
      STREET, PRIVATE. Any street providing access to abutting property that is
not maintained by and dedicated to the municipality or other public entity.
      STRINGENT. Binding and/or exacting.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES,
but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
      USE VARIANCE. A type of amendment (not a variance) that allows a use in a
district where said use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
chapter.
      UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant and the like.
      VACANT. As applied to a lot, no structure is situated thereon.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size,
setbacks or other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or
structure.
      WHOLESALE. The sale of goods or services by one business to another
business.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any sign visible from the exterior of a building or
structure which is painted directly on the surface of a window or affixed to or
suspended immediately behind the window for the purpose of informing passers-by
of the identity of the proprietor or business, or of the product or service
which can be obtained on the premises.
      YARD. Open space that is unobstructed, except as specifically permitted
in this chapter and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot
line and the building line.
      YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot line and
rear yard line.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard
line, side yard line and side lot line.
      YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is generally parallel to the lot line
along which the yard in question extends and which is not nearer to such lot
line at any point than the required depth or width of said yard.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, ZONING OFFICIAL or ZONING OFFICER. The Zoning
Administrator of the city or his or her authorized representative.
      ZONING MAP. The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts and incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 40-2)
§ 159.007 PARABOLIC OR DISH-TYPE ANTENNAS.
   Parabolic or dish-type antennas located outside of the business or residence
shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Maximum number per business lot or residence lot shall be one antenna.
Businesses selling these dishes shall be allowed a maximum of three and only
one of these shall be allowed in front of the building.
   (B)   The parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be located in the rear yard;
except that, when the main building is on a corner lot, the parabolic or dish-
type antenna cannot be closer to the adjoining side street than the main
building is permitted to be located.
   (C)   (1)   The parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be placed in the rear
yard; except that, if a usable satellite signal cannot be obtained from the
rear yard, the antenna may be located on the side yard of the property, subject
to the approval of the Zoning Administrator and subject to the other
requirements of this section.
      (2)   In the event that a usable satellite signal cannot be obtained from
the rear or side yard of the property, such antenna may be placed on the roof
of a structure subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator and subject
to the other requirements of this section.
   (D)   Screening shall be as deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator for
commercial installations.
   (E)   All parts of the parabolic or dish-type antenna structure must be a
minimum of three feet from all property lines of the lot.
   (F)   The parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be mounted on a steel pipe
support embedded in a concrete foundation, and the parabolic or dish-type
antenna, when turned perpendicular to the ground, together with the base, shall
not extend more than 15 feet above the ground. The main diameter of the
parabolic or dish-type antenna shall not exceed 11 feet.
   (G)   All petitions for a variance from the provisions of this section shall
be heard by the Zoning Board of Appeals and as provided in §§
159.340 through
159.344 of this chapter.
   (H)   A zoning occupancy permit shall be required prior to erection of any
such parabolic or dish-type antenna.
   (I)   No parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be roof-mounted unless the
dish is six feet or less in diameter and is mounted on the rear portion of the
roof.
   (J)   No parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be used or serve as a sign for
the purpose of advertisement by a business or commercial unit.
   (K)   Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the City Attorney may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this section. Such application for relief may
include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and
permanent injunction.
   (L)   This section shall not apply to any existing parabolic or dish-type
antennas which have been installed prior to the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-34)
§ 159.008 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Use of streets. The use of streets for the storage of materials in the
process of construction or alteration of a building may be granted where the
same will not unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the usable
width of the roadway to less than 18 feet; provided that, no portion of the
street other than directly abutting on the premises on which work is being done
shall be used except with the consent of the owner or occupant of the premises
abutting on such portion. Any person seeking to make such use of the street
shall file with the City Clerk a bond with corporate sureties to be approved by
the City Council, to indemnify the city for any loss or damage which may be
incurred by it by reason of such use and occupation.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
   (B)   Night operations. No construction or alteration operations shall be
carried on at nighttime if the same are accompanied by loud noises.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
   (C)   Sidewalks. No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the course of building,
construction or alteration without a special permit from the Mayor or his or
her authorized representative being first obtained.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
   (D)   Safeguards. It shall be the duty of the person doing any construction,
altering or wrecking work in the city to do the same with proper care for the
safety of persons and property. Warnings, barricades and lights shall be
maintained wherever necessary for the protection of pedestrians or traffic; and
temporary roofs over sidewalks shall be constructed wherever there is a danger
to pedestrians from falling articles or materials.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 159.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to implement the regulatory scheme of this chapter so as to achieve
the objectives enumerated in §
159.002 of this chapter, the entire city is hereby divided into the following
zoning districts:
District Designation Minimum Area*
District                        Designation Minimum Area*
Agricultural                    A-1         3 acres
Community Business              B-1         1 acre
Floodplain Overlay              O-FP        None
Highway Business                B 2         2 acres
Industrial                      I-1         5 acres
Mobile Housing                  MH-1        3 acres
Multiple-Family Residence       MR-2        3 acres
Single-Family Residence (Large) SR-1        5 acres
Single-Family Residence (Small) SR 2        3 acres
Two-Family Residence            MR-1        3 acres
NOTES TO TABLE:
* The “minimum area” requirement (which is intended to prevent spot zoning)
refers to the smallest total area of contiguous parcels that can properly be
given the particular district classification. The minimum area requirement is
not satisfied merely because the acreage of numerous non-contiguous parcels,
when aggregated, happens to equal or exceed the minimum area indicated above.
 
(Prior Code, § 40-3-1)
§ 159.021 ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the listed zoning districts are hereby established
as shown on the official zoning map of the city.
   (B)   This map, including all notations and other information thereof is
hereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (C)   The official zoning map shall be kept on file in the Administrator’s
office.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-2)
§ 159.022 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   In accordance with state law, if any changes are made in the zoning
districts or regulations during a calendar year, the Zoning Administrator shall
publish the revised official zoning map of the city not later than March 31 of
the following year. (Note: the map shall be published if there are any
annexations.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-19
§ 159.023 DETERMINING TERRITORY OF DISTRICTS WITH PRECISION.
   In determining with precision what territory is actually included within any
zoning district, the Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   Where a district boundary as indicated on the zoning map approximately
follows the features listed below on the left, the corresponding feature on the
right shall be deemed the district boundary:
 
Centerline of any street, alley or highway Such centerline
Lot line                                   Such lot line
Railroad tracks                            Right-of-way line of such tracks
Section, fraction or survey lines          Such lines
Stream                                     Center of such stream
 
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is legally vacated, the
zoning districts adjoining each side of such vacated public way shall
automatically extend to the center of such way, and all territory included in
the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-4)
§ 159.024 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any territory hereafter annexed to the municipality shall automatically be
in the SR-1, Single-Family Residence, District until duly changed by an
amendment to this chapter; except that, the City Council, with the advice of
the Plan Commission, may annex any territory as any other zoning district or
districts herein established if all legal requirements for zoning the property
at the time of the annexation and the requirements for amending this chapter by
the extension of the zoning district provisions are met.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-5)
§ 159.025 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   Hereafter, it shall be unlawful to do the following within the city (except
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter):
   (A)   To erect, use, occupy, enlarge, alter, relocate or reconstruct any
structure or part thereof;
   (B)   To create any lot; or
   (C)   To use, occupy or develop any lot or part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-6) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.026 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as “permitted” or “special”
within a particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in
that district. However, if the City Council, following consultation with the
Zoning Administrator and the Plan Commission finds that the unlisted use is
similar to and compatible with the listed uses, they may allow such use by
amending this chapter in accordance with §
159.370 of this chapter. The decision of the City Council shall become a
permanent public record, and any unlisted use that it approves shall thereafter
have the same status as listed uses.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-7)
§ 159.027 MEETING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise elsewhere in this chapter, every
lot must meet the minimum area, minimum dimensions and minimum setback
requirements of the district in which it is located independently; that is,
without counting any portion of any abutting lot.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-8)
§ 159.028 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has
permanent easement of access to a public street or private street.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-9)
§ 159.029 FRONT SETBACKS; CORNER/THROUGH LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall
meet the front setback requirements of the district in which it is located on
every side having frontage.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-10)
§ 159.030 FRONT SETBACKS IN CERTAIN BUILT UP AREAS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in the B-1, Community Business,
District and in all residential zoning districts where lots having 50% or more
of the frontage on one side of a street between intersections (that is, in one
block) are developed with buildings, and the front setbacks of those lots do
not differ by more than ten feet, the minimum required front setback on that
block shall be the average of the existing front setbacks, but no less than
five feet; provided, however, that, in any built up area, no front setback
greater than 50 feet shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-11)
§ 159.031 INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS.
   To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without thereby violating the minimum setback
requirements:
 
Features                                              Maximum Intrusions
Balconies and decks                                   4 feet
Canopies, roof overhangs                              4 feet
Cornices, chimneys, planters or similar architectural 2 feet
features
Fire escapes                                          4 feet
Patios uncovered at ground level                      No limit
Porches, if unenclosed and at ground level            6 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-3-12)
§ 159.032 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances. Chimneys, church spires, parapet walls,
cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, antennas or other necessary
appurtenances commonly constructed above the roof line shall be permitted to
exceed the maximum height limitations for the district in which they are
located if they comply with all other pertinent ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Intersections. On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land
bounded by intersecting street lines and a line joining these street lines at
points 30 feet from the point of intersection, no obstruction, whether natural
or human-made, shall intrude into the air space that is between two feet and
ten feet above the level of the adjacent street.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-13) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.033 SEWERS, SEPTIC TANKS.
   In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where people
live, work or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all sewage in
accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Whenever the public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible
(that is, when the distance from the property in question to the nearest public
sewer with available capacity does not exceed 150 feet), all sewage shall be
discharged into such system whether or not a private sewerage system already
exists or is more convenient.
   (B)   Whenever the public sanitary sewerage system is not reasonably
accessible, a private sewerage system shall be installed and used. All private
sewerage systems shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the following requirements:
      (1)   State Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/1 through
225/23, as amended from time to time;
      (2)   State Private Sewage Disposal Code No. 4.002, promulgated by the
Director of the state’s Department of Public Health, as amended from time to
time;
      (3)   Pertinent, current regulations issued by the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency; and
      (4)   Applicable codes and regulations of the city, particularly Ch. 158
of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   The Administrator shall not issue any initial certificate of zoning
compliance unless, following consultation with the City Engineer, he or she is
satisfied that these requirements will be met.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-14)
§ 159.034 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted in a particular zoning
district if such use:
      (1)   Meets the definition of “accessory use” found in §
159.006 of this chapter;
      (2)   Is accessory to a principal structure or use that is allowed in a
particular zoning district as permitted or special use; and
      (3)   Is in compliance with restrictions set forth in §
159.035 of this chapter.
   (B)   If an accessory structure is attached to a principal structure, it
shall be considered part of such structure. (See the definition of “attached”
in §
159.006 of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-15)
§ 159.035 ACCESSORY USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Height. No accessory use shall be higher than 25 feet in any zoning
district; provided, there shall be no height limit on accessory structures
related to agriculture.
   (B)   Schedule. No accessory use in any zoning district shall be located in
any part of any yard (front, side or rear) that is required because of the
setback regulations of such district; provided that, in the agricultural
district or in any residential district, an accessory use may be located as
close as five feet to any side lot line and three feet to the rear lot line.
   (C)   Yard coverage. Accessory uses shall not cover more than 30% of a
required rear yard.
   (D)   Use as dwelling. Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is
strictly prohibited throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-16) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.036 AREA BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To facilitate public understanding of this chapter, the area bulk
regulation schedule is hereby adopted and declared to be an integral part of
this chapter and it may be amended in the same manner as any other part of this
chapter.
   (B)   The schedule is found at the conclusion of the ordinance codified
herein.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-17)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 159.050 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD). A development wherein, in accordance with an
approved development plan:
      (1)   Common open space is reserved;
      (2)   Various housing types and other structures and uses may be mixed;
and/or
      (3)   Overall average density does not exceed the usual zoning district
limit.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-20)
§ 159.051 OBJECTIVES.
   This subchapter authorizes development of planned developments and
establishes procedures in order to achieve the objectives enumerated in §
159.002 of this chapter and the following objectives:
   (A)   To provide a regulatory mechanism whereby the city can be assured that
upon completion, approved development projects will substantially conform to
the plans or models which constituted the basis for the issuance of the
necessary zoning and subdivision permits;
   (B)   To permit development of a wide variety of housing types and other
structures and uses in a single comprehensively planned project;
   (C)   To preserve the natural topography, scenic features, mature trees and
historic structures existing on sites proposed for development;
   (D)   To encourage innovative site layouts and coordinated architectural
treatment of different housing types and other structures;
   (E)   To ensure the provision of usable, common, open space in planned
developments and to spur installation of various amenities therein; and
   (F)   To facilitate the economical installation of standard streets, sewers,
utilities and other improvements.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-21)
§ 159.052 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS GENERALLY REQUIRED.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this chapter, planned
developments (including all structures and uses therein) shall, at a minimum,
be built in conformity with all applicable codes and ordinances, including this
chapter and Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-22)
§ 159.053 DISTRICTS WHERE ALLOWED.
   Planned developments may be built in any zoning district, but only upon the
issuance of a special use permit by the Zoning Board of Appeals after a hearing
before the Plan Commission. (See §
159.357 of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-23)
§ 159.054 PERMISSIBLE DEVIATION FROM CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The planned development concept is intended to afford both the developer and
the city considerable flexibility in formulating development proposals.
Consequently, to the extent indicated in this section, planned developments may
deviate from generally applicable code requirements without a variance. Any
proposed deviation not listed below, however, shall require a variance.
   (A)   Mixed uses. Planned developments may include all types of residential
structures and any other uses approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals; provided
that, in approving such mixed uses, the Zoning Board of Appeals may attach any
conditions necessary to protect the public welfare.
   (B)   Lot and structure requirements. In planned developments, the Zoning
Board of Appeals may approve any reasonable deviation from the lot and
structure requirements of the particular zoning district so long as the
different uses within the PD are appropriately interrelated and property
abutting the PD is adequately protected from any potential adverse impacts of
the development. LOT AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS means minimum individual lot
area, width and depth, minimum setbacks and maximum structure height.
   (C)   Accessory uses. In PDs, the Zoning Board of Appeals may allow the
developer to disregard the usual restrictions on accessory uses other than the
prohibition against using an accessory structure as a dwelling.
   (D)   Location of parking/loading spaces. By permission of the Zoning Board
of Appeals, off-street parking and loading spaces in PDs need not be located in
accordance with generally applicable requirements. The minimum number of such
spaces, however, shall not be less than the number required as per §§
159.215 through
159.227 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-24)
§ 159.055 PROCEDURES FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Every applicant for planned development approval shall comply with the
procedural requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The required procedures are as follows:
      (1)   Filing development plan with the Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Review of plans by Plan Commission;
      (3)   Provision by the developer of adequate assurance for the completion
of required improvements as per the development plan and subdivision
regulations;
      (4)   Recommendation by Plan Commission;
      (5)   Public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals, as per the
requirements of §§
159.325 through
159.329 and
159.340 through
159.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals regarding approval/
rejection of the development plan;
      (7)   Recording of development plan with the county’s Recorder of Deeds;
and
      (8)   Approval of City Council (if necessary).
(Prior Code, § 40-3-25)
§ 159.056 APPLICATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Every applicant for approval of a development plan shall submit to the
Administrator, in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of information
listed below.
   (A)   Written documents.
      (1)   Legal description of the total site proposed for development;
      (2)   Names and addresses of all owners of property within or adjacent to
the proposed planned development;
      (3)   Statement of the planning objectives to be achieved by the PD
through the particular approach proposed by the applicant, including a
description of the character of the proposed development and the rationale
behind the assumptions and choices made by the applicant;
      (4)   Development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the PD or stages of the PD can be expected to begin and to be
completed;
      (5)   Statement of the applicant’s intentions with regard to the future
selling or leasing of all or portions of the PD, such as land areas, dwelling
units and the like; and
      (6)   Data indicating:
         (a)   Total number and type of proposed dwelling units;
         (b)   Gross and net acreage of parcel;
         (c)   Acreage of gross and usable open space; and
         (d)   Area of any commercial uses.
   (B)   Graphic materials.
      (1)   Existing site conditions, including contours at ten-foot intervals
and locations of watercourses, floodplains, unique natural features and wooded
areas;
      (2)   Proposed lot lines and plot designs;
      (3)   Proposed location, size in square feet and general appearance of
all existing and proposed buildings (both residential and non-residential) and
other structures and facilities;
      (4)   Location and size in acres or square feet or all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated or reserved as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites and similar public and semi-public uses;
      (5)   Existing and proposed vehicular circulation system, including off-
street parking and loading areas and major points of ingress and egress to the
development (notations of proposed ownership - public or private - should be
included where appropriate);
      (6)   Existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including its
relationship to the vehicular circulation system and proposed treatments of
points of conflict;
      (7)   Existing and proposed utility systems, including sanitary sewers,
storm sewers and water, electric, gas and telephone lines;
      (8)   General landscape plan indicating the treatment of both private and
common open spaces and the location of required buffer strips;
      (9)   Enough information on land areas adjacent to the proposed PD to
indicate the relationship between the proposed development and existing and
proposed adjacent areas;
      (10)   Any additional information required by the city to evaluate the
character and impact of the proposed PD; and
      (11)   Appropriate seals of the licensed surveyor, engineer or architect.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-26)
§ 159.057 CRITERIA CONSIDERED.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, after meeting with the Plan Commission,
shall compile a written report which either accepts or rejects the development
plan.
   (B)   In making its decision, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider the
following criteria:
      (1)   The extent to which the proposed development is consistent with the
comprehensive plan and with the purposes of this chapter and of all other
applicable codes and ordinances;
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed development deviates from the
regulations that are generally applicable to the property (including, but not
limited to, the use, lot and building regulations of the district), and the
apparent merits, if any, of said deviations;
      (3)   Whether the proposed design of the PD makes adequate provisions for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, off-street parking and loading,
separation of residential and commercial uses, open space, recreational
facilities, preservation of natural features and so forth;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed PD with adjacent properties and
surrounding area; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable criteria that the Zoning Board of Appeals may
devise.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-27)
§ 159.058 DECISION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall either approve or disapprove each
and every development plan.
   (B)   However, the Zoning Board shall not approve any PD unless:
      (1)   The developer has posted a performance bond or deposited funds in
escrow in the amount the City Engineer deems sufficient to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all required improvements;
      (2)   The City Attorney has stated that all legal instruments
(particularly the restrictive covenants) are satisfactory; and
      (3)   The proposed PD, as evidenced by the development plan, complies
with all applicable codes, regulations and ordinances. (Deviations to the
extent permitted under §
159.057 of this chapter shall not be deemed as non-complying.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-28)
§ 159.059 CHANGES IN APPROVED PLANS.
   No changes shall be made to any approved PD development plan, except as
follows:
   (A)   Minor changes, if required by engineering or other circumstances, not
foreseen at the time the final development plan was approved;
   (B)   All other changes shall require a public hearing before the Zoning
Board of Appeals; and
   (C)   No approved change shall have any effect until it is recorded with the
county’s Recorder of Deeds as an amendment to the recorded copy of the
development plan.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-29)
§ 159.060 FAILURE TO BEGIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If a substantial amount of construction has not begun within the time
stated in the approved construction schedule, the development plan shall lapse
upon written notice to the applicant from the Zoning Administrator and shall be
of no further effect.
   (B)   However, in his or her discretion and for good cause, the Zoning
Administrator may extend for a reasonable time the period for the beginning of
construction.
   (C)   If a final development plan lapses as per this section, the following
shall be applicable:
      (1)   The special use permit shall be automatically revoked;
      (2)   Any zoning permits shall automatically become null and void; and
      (3)   All regulations applicable before the PD was approved shall
automatically be in full effect.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-30)
§ 159.061 MUNICIPAL EXEMPTION.
   In conjunction with any existing or proposed development, the city shall be
exempt from all of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-31)
“A” (A-1) AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 159.075 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   The A Agricultural District encompasses areas that are presently undeveloped
or sparsely developed and that, for various reasons, should remain so for the
foreseeable future. Some tracts of land in this district are fertile and
relatively level and best suited for agricultural pursuits. Other tracts in
this district have such poor soils, steep slopes, inadequate natural drainage
and/or other problems, or are simply so distant from existing developed areas
that the provision and maintenance of roads, utilities and storm water drainage
systems would be impractical or burdensomely expensive to the tax-paying
public.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-1)
§ 159.076 ONE DWELLING ON ONE LOT.
   In the A District, only one dwelling shall be situated on any one lot.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-2)
§ 159.077 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the A District shall conform to the
following requirements.
Maximum building height (does not apply to accessory agricultural 35 feet
structures)
Minimum lot area                                                  3 acres
Minimum lot depth                                                 200 feet
Minimum lot width at the established building line                150 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From either side lot line                                   10 feet
   From front lot line                                         50 feet
   From rear lot line                                          25 feet
   From side yard abutting street                              50 feet
   Total for both side yard lines                              25 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-4-3)
§ 159.078 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the A (A-1) Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified as such, provided
the requirements hereof are met;
   (B)   Cemeteries;
   (C)   Government uses of the city;
   (D)   Nurseries, greenhouses, temporary produce stands;
   (E)   Single-family dwellings, conventionally constructed; and
   (F)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
159.034 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-4)
§ 159.079 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with
§§
159.355 through
159.359 of this chapter in the A (A-1) Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agricultural implement sales;
   (B)   Amusement facilities, such as go-cart tracks, miniature golf courses
and the like;
   (C)   Animal hospitals;
   (D)   Churches and other places of formal worship;
   (E)   Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief
activity a service customarily carried on as a business;
   (F)   Golf courses, regulation size;
   (G)   Government uses other than those of the city;
   (H)   Home occupations;
   (I)   Institutions, such as convents, retreat houses, seminaries and the
like;
   (J)   Kennels, commercial;
   (K)   Nursing homes, sanitariums; and
   (L)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-5)
“SR-1” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT (LARGE LOT)
§ 159.090 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   (A)   In the SR-1, Single-Family Residence, District, land is principally
used for or is best suited for detached, single-family dwellings and related
educational, religious and recreational facilities.
   (B)   The regulations for this district are intended to stabilize and
preserve sound existing single-family neighborhoods, and to promote the
development of subdivisions offering a range of new conventionally constructed
single-family housing.
   (C)   Other types of residences (mobile home (single wide), mobile home
(double wide), manufactured housing (single section), mobile home
(immobilized), duplexes, apartments and the like) are strictly prohibited uses
in this district.
   (D)   Manufactured housing (multiple section) is allowed; provided, it is
installed on permanent perimeter foundation walls, secured per the state’s
Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. and meets all lot size
and setback specifications.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-7)
§ 159.091 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   One principal building per lot. In the SR-1 District, only one
principal building shall be situated on any one lot.
   (B)   Mobile home (single wide), mobile home (double wide) and manufactured
housing (single section).
      (1)   No mobile home (single wide), mobile home (double wide) or
manufactured housing (single section) shall be brought into or placed anywhere
in a SR-1 or SR-2 District, except to replace an existing mobile home (single
wide), mobile home (double wide) or manufactured housing (single section) as
hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Owners of mobile home (single wide), mobile home (double wide) and
manufactured housing (single section) existing as of 10-1-1992 may replace such
mobile home/manufactured housing with one manufactured within three calendar
years of the date of application for replacement made to the city’s Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Replacement.
      (1)   An existing mobile home (single wide) or manufactured housing
(single section) may be replaced with:
         (a)   A manufactured housing (single section); or
         (b)   A manufactured housing (multiple section).
      (2)   In either case, the replacement shall meet the foundation
requirements, the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et
seq., and minimum lot size and setback requirements for the district where it
is located.
      (3)   An existing mobile home (double wide) and manufactured housing
(multiple section) may be replaced with a manufactured housing (multiple
section); provided, it is installed on permanent perimeter foundation walls and
anchored/secured per the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/
1 et seq. The replacement unit shall meet the minimum lot size and setback
requirements of the District where it is located.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-8)
§ 159.092 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the SR-1 District shall conform to the
following requirements:
Maximum building height                            35 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot                   25%
Minimum lot area                                   9,500 square feet
Minimum lot depth                                  100 feet
Minimum lot width at the established building line 80 feet
Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit       2 spaces
Minimum setbacks
   From either side lot line                    10 feet
   From front lot line                          25 feet
   From rear lot line                           10 feet
   From side yard abutting street               25 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-4-9)
§ 159.093 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the SR-1, Single-Family
Residential, District:
   (A)   Government uses of the city;
   (B)   Manufactured or prefabricated dwellings (see §
159.006(B) of this chapter);
   (C)   Single-family dwellings, conventionally constructed; and
   (D)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
159.034 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-10)
§ 159.094 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be allowed by special use permit in
accordance with §
159.355 of this chapter in the SR-1 District:
   (A)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (B)   Government uses other than those of the city;
   (C)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
159.242 of this chapter;
   (D)   Schools; and
   (E)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-11)
“SR-2” SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT (SMALL LOT)
§ 159.105 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   (A)   The SR-2, Single-Family Residence, District encompasses areas suitable
for single-family dwellings as well as related educational, religious and
recreational facilities.
   (B)   The regulations for this district are intended to stabilize and
preserve sound existing single-family neighborhoods, and to promote the
development of subdivisions offering a range of new conventionally constructed
single-family housing.
   (C)   Other types of residences (mobile homes, modular homes, immobilized
mobile homes, duplexes, apartments and the like) are strictly prohibited in
this district.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-12)
§ 159.106 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The provisions of §
159.091 of this chapter shall be controlling in this district.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-13)
§ 159.107 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the SR-2 District shall conform to the
following requirements:
Maximum building height                            35 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot                   25%
Minimum lot area                                   6,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth                                  100 feet
Minimum lot width at the established building line 50 feet
Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit       2 spaces
Minimum setbacks
   For both side yards                          15 feet
   From abutting street                         25 feet
   From either side lot line                    5 feet
   From front lot line                          25 feet
   From rear lot line                           25 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-4-14)
§ 159.108 PERMITTED USES.
   Any use permitted in the SR-1 District under §
159.093 of this chapter shall be permitted in the SR-2, Single-Family
Residential, District.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-15)
§ 159.109 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the SR-2 District by special use permit
in accordance with §
159.355 of this chapter, to-wit:
   (A)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (B)   Government uses other than those of the city;
   (C)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
159.242 of this chapter;
   (D)   Schools; and
   (E)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-16)
“MR-1” TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 159.120 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   The MR-1, Two-Family Residence, District encompasses areas suitable for both
single-family dwellings and duplexes as well as related educational, religious
and recreational facilities.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-21)
§ 159.121 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   In the MR-1 District, only one single-family or two-family dwelling may be
situated on any one lot.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-22)
§ 159.122 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the MR-1 District shall conform to the
following requirements:
Maximum building height                 35 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot        30%
Minimum lot area                        9,000 square feet, or 4,500 square feet
                                        per unit
Minimum lot depth                       100 feet
Minimum lot width at the established    80 feet
building line
Minimum off-street parking per dwelling 2 spaces
unit
Minimum setbacks
   From abutting street              25 feet
   From either side lot line         5 feet
   From front lot line               25 feet
   From rear lot line                25 feet
   Total for both side lot lines     15 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-4-23)
§ 159.123 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the MR-1, Two-Family Residential,
District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the SR-2 District under §
159.093 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-24)
§ 159.124 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the MR-1 District by special use permit
in accordance with §
159.355 of this chapter:
   (A)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (B)   Government uses other than those of the city;
   (C)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
159.242 of this chapter;
   (D)   Nursing homes;
   (E)   Schools; and
   (F)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-25)
“MR-2” MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 159.135 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   The MR-2, Multiple-Family Residence, District is established to stabilize
and conserve existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of multiple-
family dwellings and to promote the development of comparable new areas in
order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential environment.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-26)
§ 159.136 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building in the MR-2 District shall conform to the
requirements indicated below. Detached single-family and two-family dwellings
erected in the MR-2 District shall comply with all applicable regulations of
the MR-2 District.
Maximum building height                 35 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot        30%
Minimum lot area                        10,000 square feet, or 2,500 square
                                        feet per unit, whichever is greater
Minimum lot depth                       100 feet
Minimum lot width at the established    80 feet
building line
Minimum off-street parking per dwelling 2 spaces
unit
Minimum setbacks
   For both side lot lines           15 feet
   From any side lot line            7.5 feet
   From front lot line               25 feet
   From rear lot line                25 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-4-27)
§ 159.137 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the MR-2 Multiple-Family
Residential District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the MR-1 District under §
159.123 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-28)
§ 159.138 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the MR-2 District by special use permit
in accordance with §
159.355 of this chapter:
   (A)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (B)   Convenience shops (e.g., small drugstore, food store, laundromat);
   (C)   Government uses other than those of the city;
   (D)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
159.242 of this chapter;
   (E)   Nursing homes;
   (F)   Quick shop, as defined in this chapter;
   (G)   Schools; and
   (H)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-29)
MOBILE HOUSING DISTRICT
§ 159.150 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   The MH-1, Mobile Housing, District is primarily intended to provide:
   (A)   Areas suitable for the placement of single wide or double wide mobile
homes (immobilized) and manufactured housing (single section) immobilized on
individual lots; and
   (B)   The establishment of mobile home (single wide)/mobile home (double
wide)/manufactured housing (single section) parks.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-32)
§ 159.151 MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED HOUSING LOT OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   All mobile home/manufactured housing units outside an approved mobile
home/manufactured housing park shall be located on property owned by the owner
of the mobile home/manufactured housing unit.
   (B)   All units shall meet the Housing and Urban Development Federal (HUD)
Code known as the “National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards”. All units shall be no more than three years old when installed.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-33)
§ 159.152 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Special lot and building requirements are applicable to mobile home
parks. (See §
159.155 of this chapter.)
Maximum building height                            35 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot                   25%
Minimum lot area                                   6,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth                                  100 feet
Minimum lot width at the established building line 50 feet
Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit       2 spaces
Minimum setbacks
   From either side lot line                    5 feet
   From front lot line                          25 feet
   From rear lot line                           20 feet
   From side yard abutting street               25 feet
   Total for both side lot lines                15 feet
 
   (B)   All mobile home districts and/or mobile home parks shall have water
and sewer service established on each lot. All existing roads and lighting
shall be acceptable to the guidelines of the City Council. All lots shall be
numbered and recorded as required by the city code.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-34)
§ 159.153 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the MH-1, Mobile Housing, District:
 
   (A)   Any use permitted in the MR-1 District under §
159.123 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Mobile homes (immobilized) and manufactured housing (single section)
immobilized, on individual lots; provided, said units conform to all applicable
requirements of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-35)
§ 159.154 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the MH-1 District by special
use permit in accordance with §
159.355 of this chapter:
   (A)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (B)   Convenience stores;
   (C)   Government uses other than those of the municipality;
   (D)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
159.242 of this chapter;
   (E)   Mobile home parks in conformity with all applicable requirements of
this section;
   (F)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (G)   Nursing homes;
   (H)   Quick shops, as defined in this chapter;
   (I)   Schools; and
   (J)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-36)
§ 159.155 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no mobile home park shall be
established, except in conformity with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Minimum lot size; setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. No mobile home park shall be located on a tract
less than two acres in area.
      (2)   Minimum dimensions. No mobile home park shall be developed on any
tract that is less than 250 feet in both width or depth.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks. No part of any mobile home or other structure in
any mobile home park shall be situated closer than 25 feet to any boundary line
of the park.
      (4)   Maximum height. No structure in any mobile home park shall be more
than 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Spacing of mobile homes.
      (1)   Every mobile home space shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Minimum area: 6,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum width: 50 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum depth: 120 feet.
      (2)   Mobile homes within any park shall be placed so that no part of any
mobile home is closer than:
         (a)   Ten feet to any park street;
         (b)   Twenty-five feet to any boundary line of the park; or
         (c)   Twenty feet to any part of any other mobile home or structure.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-37)
“B-1” COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 159.170 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   The B-1, Community Business, District primarily encompasses the long-
established commercial areas of the city where a wide range of goods and
services is offered to the general public at retail or wholesale.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-40)
§ 159.171 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lots and buildings in this district shall conform to the requirements
below.
 
Maximum building height                        35 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot               50%
Minimum lot area                               5,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth of side yard abutting street 25 feet
Minimum lot width                              50 feet
Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit   2 spaces
Minimum setbacks                               See division (B) below
 
   (B)   (1)   Generally, no minimum setbacks are required, except as necessary
to comply with applicable off-street parking and loading requirements.
      (2)   However, any lot that abuts any residential district shall meet the
front setback and side setback (on the side abutting the residential use)
requirements of such residential district. (See §
159.027 of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-4-41)
§ 159.172 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the B-1, Community Business,
District:
   (A)   Churches and related facilities;
   (B)   Clubs and lodges;
   (C)   Commercial establishments, wholesale and retail except those listed
under §
159.173 of this chapter;
   (D)   Government uses of the municipality;
   (E)   Medical/dental clinics;
   (F)   Offices;
   (G)   Service establishments; and
   (H)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
159.034 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-42)
§ 159.173 SPECIAL USES.
   The following may be permitted as special uses in the B-1 District in
accordance with §
159.355 of this chapter, to-wit:
   (A)   Any use, such as drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, service
stations and the like, that offers goods or services directly to customers
waiting in parked vehicles or that sells food or beverages for consumption on
the premises in parked motor vehicles;
   (B)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (C)   Dwelling units, if located above the first story;
   (D)   Governmental uses other than those of the municipality;
   (E)   Nursing homes;
   (F)   Schools; and
   (G)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-43)
“B-2” HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 159.185 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   The B-2, Highway Business, District is intended to accommodate and regulate
strip commercial developments and compatible uses. Since such businesses, both
retail and wholesale, draw their patrons primarily from the motoring public,
they typically require direct access to major streets and large lots for off-
street parking and loading.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-44)
§ 159.186 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Storage areas. Any inventory or materials stored outside may be open
to the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls or solid fences at least six feet
high.
   (B)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by facilities located within
this district shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in visually-
screened areas.
   (C)   Screening. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any
residential district, screening at least six feet high, which completely blocks
the view from the adjacent residential property shall be installed. The
screening shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Parking. See §§
159.215 through
159.227 of this chapter.
   (E)   Signs. See
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-45)
§ 159.187 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the B-2, Highway Business, District
shall conform to the requirements indicated below.
Maximum structure height                           35 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot                   50%
Minimum lot area                                   20,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth                                  120 feet
Minimum lot width at the established building line 125 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line                          50 feet
   From rear lot line                           25 feet
   Side yard: from either side lot line         25 feet
   Side yard: total from abutting street        50 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-4-46)
 § 159.188 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of the B-2 District are observed, the
following uses are permitted (see §
159.186 of this chapter):
   (A)   Any use permitted in the B-1 District (see §
159.172 of this chapter);
   (B)   Churches and related facilities;
   (C)   Clubs and lodges;
   (D)   Commercial establishments, any type, including drive-in facilities;
   (E)   Such uses as the following are specifically appropriate in this
district:
      (1)   Bowling alleys;
      (2)   Furniture and appliance sales;
      (3)   Greenhouses;
      (4)   Lumber and building supplies sales;
      (5)   Mobile home, manufactured housing and recreational vehicle sales;
and
      (6)   Motor vehicle sales.
   (F)   Government uses;
   (G)   Offices;
   (H)   Service establishments, any type, including drive-in facilities;
   (I)   Such uses as the following are especially appropriate in this
district:
      (1)   Animal hospitals;
      (2)   Banks and other financial institutions;
      (3)   Motels;
      (4)   Motor vehicles services;
      (5)   Restaurants; and
      (6)   Service stations.
   (J)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
159.034 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-47)
§ 159.189 SPECIAL USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of the B-2 District are observed, the
following uses may be allowed by special use permit (see §
159.186 of this chapter):
   (A)   Bus terminals and bus transportation facilities;
   (B)   Drive-in theaters;
   (C)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives,
flammable gases or liquids or live animals;
   (D)   Utility substations;
   (E)   Warehousing and wholesaling of any goods except explosives, flammable
gases or live animals; and
   (F)   Any use permitted in the MR-2 District. (See §
159.138 of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-4-48)
“I” INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.200 DISTRICT OUTLINE.
   The I, Industrial, District is intended to provide for areas where light
industry, research facilities, warehouses and wholesale businesses may locate
without detriment to the remainder of the community. In these areas, a
satisfactory correlation of factors required by such uses exists or can be
readily achieved.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-52)
§ 159.201 USE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Nuisances prohibited. No production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, repair, sale or storage of goods, materials or equipment shall
unreasonably interfere with the use, occupancy or enjoyment of neighboring
properties or the community as a whole. Unreasonable interferences include, but
are not limited to, excessive traffic congestion, loud or shrill noises,
excessive emission of smoke, emission of toxic gases, excessive glare and
noxious odors.
   (B)   Activities enclosed. All production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing or repair activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings. Storage areas may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls
or fences (whether solid or chain-link), including gates, at least eight feet
high.
   (C)   Buffer strips. Wherever any industrial use located in this district
abuts any residential district, a 20-foot wide view and noise control buffer
strip shall be installed. Such buffer strip shall consist of densely planted
shrubbery that is at least five feet high when planted and that can be expected
to reach a height of ten feet when full grown.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-53)
§ 159.202 LOT AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   Lots and structures in this district shall conform to the requirements
below:
Maximum structure height                           60 feet
Maximum percent coverage per lot                   40%
Minimum lot area                                   20,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth                                  150 feet
Minimum lot width at the established building line 125 feet
Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit       2 spaces
Minimum setbacks
   From any side lot line                       25 feet
   From front lot line                          25 feet
   From rear lot line                           25 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-4-54)
§ 159.203 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of the I District are observed, the
following uses are permitted (see §
159.201 of this chapter):
   (A)   Assembly, manufacturing or processing of any commodity from semi-
finished materials, provided explosives, flammable gases or liquids live
animals are not involved;
   (B)   Freight and bus terminals and related mass transportation facilities;
   (C)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives or
flammable gases or liquids;
   (D)   Service stations;
   (E)   Warehousing or wholesaling of goods, except explosives, flammable
gases or liquids or live animals;
   (F)   Utility substations or government uses; and
   (G)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
159.034 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-55)
§ 159.204 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted as special uses in the I District by
special use permit in accordance with §
159.355 of this chapter, to-wit:
   (A)   Any permitted use in the B-1 or B-2 Districts (see §§
159.172 and
159.188 of this chapter);
   (B)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (C)   Government uses other than those of the municipality;
   (D)   Nursing homes;
   (E)   Schools; and
   (F)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-56)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 159.215 APPLICABILITY.
   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with this
subchapter for all structures and uses erected or established after the
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-1)
§ 159.216 EXISTING PARKING/LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the same
lot as the use served shall not be reduced or, if already less than, shall not
be further reduced below the requirements and standards for similar new
structures or uses.
   (B)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, parking/loading equivalent to any maintained
at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored, but additional
parking/loading spaces need not be provided.
   (C)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified through
addition of dwelling units, increased floor area, greater seating capacity and
the like, additional off-street parking and loading facilities commensurate
with such intensification shall be provided.
   (D)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a different
use, off-street parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required
herein for such new use.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-2)
§ 159.217 PARKING LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All off-street parking lots shall conform to the standards indicated
in the sections which follow in §§
159.218 through
159.223 of this chapter.
   (B)   Standards applicable to all parking areas are indicated by one
asterisk (*); standards applicable to all parking areas except those accessory
to single- or two-family dwellings are indicated by two asterisks (**).
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3)
§ 159.218 SPACES.
   (A)   Every off-street parking space shall be at least ten feet wide and 20
feet long, and shall have at least seven feet of vertical clearance. Every
space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle overhangs the
public right-of-way.(*)
   (B)   Markings shall be laid and restored as often as necessary to clearly
delineate each parking space.(**)
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.1)
§ 159.219 INTERIOR AISLES.
   Aisles within parking lots shall be sufficiently wide to permit safe and
efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into and out of parking spaces.
Aisles designed for two-way traffic shall be at least 22 feet wide. One-way
aisles designed for 60-degree parking shall be at least 18 feet wide.(**)
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.2)
§ 159.220 ACCESS WAYS.
   (A)   Parking lots shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right-
of-way.(*)
   (B)   No access way to any parking area shall be located within 30 feet of
any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets. At intersections where traffic-control devices are installed, the
Administrator may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent traffic
hazards.(*)
   (C)   Parking lot access ways (as well as residential driveways) and public
streets shall be aligned to form, as closely as feasible, right angles.(*)
   (D)   The access way to every parking lot located in any business district
or in the Industrial District shall be at least 24 feet wide unless two one-way
drives, each 12 feet wide, are provided.(**)
   (E)   The access way to every parking lot located in any residential
district or in the Agriculture District shall be at least ten feet wide; but if
the parking area is longer than 100 feet, access shall be provided either by
one two-way drive at least 20 feet wide or by two one-way drives, each at least
ten feet wide.(*)
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.3)
§ 159.221 SURFACING.
   (A)   Parking lots shall be graded and improved with a compacted stone base
at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two inches of asphaltic
concrete or approved comparable material.
   (B)   Parking lots used exclusively for employees are hereby exempt from
these requirements, but shall be constructed of an approved dustless surface.
(Note: “oil and chip” is not comparable material.)(**)
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.4)
§ 159.222 LIGHTING.
   Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking lot shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the lot lines of the parking
lot to the greatest extent possible and in no case, shall the light(s) shine on
or into nearby residences.(*)
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.5)
§ 159.223 LANDSCAPING.
   In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize blowing of dust and trash,
and to reduce the oppressive visual effects of large open parking areas,
landscaping shall be provided and maintained within every parking lot that
contains 20 or more parking spaces. Parking lots used exclusively for employees
are hereby exempt from these requirements, but shall be constructed of an
approved dustless surface.(**)
   (A)   A landscaping plan (either a separate document or an element of a more
inclusive development plan) shall accompany every application for a certificate
of zoning compliance to develop any parking lot that will contain 20 or more
parking spaces.
   (B)   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Proposed type, amount, size and spacing of plantings, including
trees, shrubbery and ground cover;
      (2)   Proposed size, construction materials and drainage of landscaped
islands; and
      (3)   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation and pedestrian movement.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.6)
§ 159.224 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   All off-street parking shall be located in conformity with the following
requirements.
   (A)   For dwellings.
      (1)   Parking spaces accessory to any dwelling shall be located on the
same lot as the dwelling. Such parking spaces shall not be located in any
required front yard or required side yard adjacent to a street, except in the
driveway, but may be located in the side or rear yards.
      (2)   Each parking space accessory to a multi-family dwelling shall be
unobstructed so that no vehicle need be moved in order to allow another vehicle
to enter/exit the parking area; provided that this requirement shall not be
applicable to two-family dwellings.
   (B)   For business/industrial uses.
      (1)   Every off-street parking space accessory to any business or
industrial use shall be located within 500 feet of the use served; provided
that, no portion of any parking lot for non-residential uses shall extend into
any residential district or into the Agriculture District, except by written
permission of the Administrator.
      (2)   In any business district or in the Industrial District, off-street
parking facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided
collectively; but only if the total number of spaces so located together is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use, and if all other
pertinent regulations are observed.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-4)
§ 159.225 DESIGN AND LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   All off-street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards
indicated below.
   (A)   Size of space. Every off-street loading space shall be at least 12
feet wide and 45 feet long exclusive of aisle and maneuver space, and shall
have vertical clearance of at least 14 feet. In no case shall a vehicle being
loaded or unloaded overhang into the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Access way.
      (1)   Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means of vehicular
access to a street or alley.
      (2)   Such access way shall be at least 12 feet wide.
   (C)   Surfacing. Every off-street loading area shall be improved with a
compacted stone base at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two
inches of asphaltic concrete or approved comparable material (no “oil and
chip”).
   (D)   Buffer strips. No loading space or area for vehicles over two-ton
cargo capacity shall be developed closer than 50 feet to the lot line of any
lot located in any residential district or in the Agricultural District unless
such space/area is completely enclosed by walls, a solid fence or closely
planted shrubbery at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to
block the view from residential property.
   (E)   Location. Every off-street loading space shall be located on the same
parcel of land as the use served, and not closer than 50 feet to the
intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets and not on any
required front yard.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-5)
§ 159.226 COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED PARKING/LOADING SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required by this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   (1)   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used.
      (2)   EMPLOYEE PARKING means one parking space shall be required per one
and one-half employees, unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   In computing parking or loading space requirements on the basis of
building floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, 350 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space.
   (D)   If computation of the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this chapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more
shall be counted as one space.
   (E)   No space or portion thereof needed to satisfy the minimum applicable
requirement for number of off-street parking or loading spaces shall be counted
as part of the off-street parking or loading spaces required for another
structure or use.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-6)
§ 159.227 NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as
indicated in tabular form below.
      (2)   For any use that is not listed in the table, the same amount of
parking and loading space shall be provided as is required for the most similar
listed use.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall make the determination of similarity:
Use Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required
                            (If Any)
Use                       Parking Spaces Required    Loading Spaces Required
                                                     (If Any)
COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, SERVICE
                                                     To 10,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area: 1 space
All commercial and                                   More than 10,000 square
service uses, unless      1 space per 300 square     feet: 1 space, plus 1
specifically indicated    feet of floor area         additional space per
otherwise below                                      50,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area in excess of
                                                     10,000 square feet
Beauty and barber shops   2 spaces per chair, plus   Not applicable
                          employee parking
                          4 spaces per bowling lane,
                          plus additional spaces as  Not applicable, except as
Bowling alleys            required for affiliated    required for affiliated
                          uses such as restaurants   uses
                          and taverns
Car wash                  3 spaces per wash lane     Not applicable
                          1 space per 300 square     To 30,000 square feet of
Financial institutions:   feet of floor area, plus   floor area: none required
walk-in                   employee parking           30,001 to 100,000 square
                                                     feet: 1 space
                                                     To 30,000 square feet of
Financial institutions:   5 spaces per teller window floor area: none required
drive-in                                             30,001 to 100,000 square
                                                     feet: 1 space
                                                     To 25,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area: 2 spaces
                                                     More than 25,000 square
                          1 space per 600 square     feet of floor area: 2
Furniture and appliance   feet of floor area         spaces, plus 1 additional
                                                     space per 25,000 square
                                                     feet of floor area in
                                                     excess of 25,000 square
                                                     feet
                          1 space per 150 square
                          feet of floor area devoted
Home occupations          to the home occupation in  Not applicable
                          addition to the parking
                          requirements for the
                          dwelling
                          1 space per 5 seats, plus
                          1 space per funeral        1 space per 10,000 square
Mortuaries                vehicle, but not less than feet or more of floor area
                          20 spaces per chapel or
                          state room
Offices generally, but                               To 30,000 square feet of
not medical/dental        1 space per 300 square     floor area: none required
offices                   feet of floor area         30,001-100,000 square
                                                     feet: 1 space
                          1 space per 200 square
Offices, medical/dental   feet of floor area or 3    Not applicable
                          spaces per professional,
                          whichever is greater
                          1 space per 4 seats or 1   1 space per structure
Restaurants, refreshment  space per 50 square feet   having 10,000 square feet
stands: sit-down          of floor area, whichever   or more floor area
                          is greater
Restaurants, refreshment  1 space per 25 square feet 1 space per structure
stands: drive-in          of floor area              having 10,000 square feet
                                                     or more floor area
                          2 spaces per service
Service stations          stall, plus employee       Not applicable
                          parking
                          1 space per 2 seats or 1   1 space per structure
Taverns                   space per 50 square feet   having 10,000 square feet
                          of floor area, whichever   or more of floor area
                          is greater
Theaters: drive-in        On review by the           Not applicable
                          Administrator
Theaters: indoor          1 space per 4 seats        Not applicable
                          1 space per 600 square
                          feet of enclosed floor
                          area, plus:
                          Up to 10,000 square feet   To 25,000 square feet of
                          of open lot area devoted   floor area and open lot
                          to sale/display of         area: 2
Vehicle sales (autos,     vehicles: 1 space 2,500    More than 25,000 square
boats, trailers and the   square feet of open lot    feet of floor area and
like)                     area                       open lot area: 2 spaces,
                          Above 10,000 square feet:  plus 1 additional space
                          4 spaces, plus 1           per 25,000 square feet in
                          additional space per 5,000 excess 25,000 square feet
                          square feet of open lot
                          area in excess of 10,000
                          square feet
DWELLINGS, LODGINGS
Mobile homes (single
wide), mobile home
(double wide),
manufactured housing
(single section),         2 spaces per unit          Not applicable
manufactured housing
(multiple section),
mobile home (immobilized)
and manufactured housing
(immobilized)
                          1 space per lodging unit,  1 space if the use has
Motels, boarding          plus employee parking      houses 20,000 square feet
                                                     or more of floor area
Multi-family dwellings    2 spaces per dwelling unit Not applicable
Single-family and two-    2 spaces per dwelling unit Not applicable
family dwellings
EDUCATIONAL, INSTITUTIONAL, RECREATIONAL
Churches, assembly halls  1 space per 4 seats in the Not applicable
                          largest seating area
Libraries, museums        1 space per 500 square     On review by the
                          feet of floor area         Administrator
                          1 space per 5 beds, plus   To 50,000 square feet of
Nursing homes             1.5 spaces per employee on floor area: 1 space
                          the major shift            50,001-100,000 square
                                                     feet: 2 spaces
                          1 space for every 20
Schools: elementary and   students that the building On review by the
junior high               is designed to             Administrator
                          accommodate, plus employee
                          parking
                          1 space for every 4
                          students that the building On review by the
Schools: senior high      is designed to             Administrator
                          accommodate, plus employee
                          parking
INDUSTRIAL
                                                     To 20,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area: 1 space
                                                     20,001-50,000 square feet:
                          Employee parking (1.5      2 spaces
Any manufacturing,        spaces per employee), plus 50,001-90,000 square feet:
warehousing or other      1 space per company        3 spaces
industrial use            vehicle, plus 1 visitor    Above 90,000 square feet:
                          space per 25 employees on  3 spaces, plus 1
                          the major shift            additional space per
                                                     50,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area in excess of
                                                     90,000 square feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-5-7)
ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 159.240 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter establishes lot and structure requirements and design/
operational standards for specific, potentially troublesome structures and
uses. These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific
structure or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit; but, if more
stringent regulations are applicable in any particular district, such
regulations shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-1)
§ 159.241 FENCES, WALLS.
   (A)   No barbed wire or electrically-charged fence shall be erected or
maintained anywhere in the city, except in the Agricultural District by special
use permit.
   (B)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected within any public
right-of-way or utility easement, except by written permission of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected in violation of
the state’s Drainage Code, 70 ILCS 605/2-1 through 605/2-12, as amended from
time to time.
   (D)   Fences, walls and hedges in any district may be located on lot lines;
provided, such fences, walls and hedges exceeding six feet in height shall be
subject to the minimum yard requirements of the district in which such fences
are located.
    (E)   Every fence, wall or other obstruction shall conform to the special
height restrictions applicable in areas near intersections. (See §
159.032 of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-7-3)
§ 159.242 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A HOME OCCUPATION means any business, profession or occupation
conducted for gain or support entirely within any dwelling or on any
residential premises. Within the city, every home occupation shall be
considered a special use.
   (B)   No home occupation shall be established or conducted, except in
conformity with the following regulations.
      (1)   Floor space. The total area devoted to a home occupation shall not
exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling, or 300 square feet,
whichever is less.
      (2)   Dwelling alterations. In any residential district, a dwelling shall
not be altered to accommodate a home occupation in such a way as to materially
change the residential character of the building.
      (3)   Outdoor storage. In any residential district, unenclosed storage of
equipment or materials used in connection with a home occupation is prohibited.
      (4)   Nuisances. A home occupation shall not generate any offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or electrical interference
noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
      (5)   Parking. See §
159.227 of this chapter.
      (6)   Signs. See
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-4)
§ 159.243 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   No part of any junk yard, which includes any lot on which any three or
more inoperable vehicles are stored, shall be located closer than 500 feet to
the boundary of any residential district.
   (B)   All vehicles, parts and equipment shall be stored within a completely
enclosed structure or within an area screened by a wall, solid fence or closely
planted shrubbery at least ten feet high and of sufficient density to block the
view from adjacent property. (See definition of “junk yard”, §
159.006(B) of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-7-5)
§ 159.244 NURSING HOMES.
   (A)   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum
width and depth of 200 feet and a minimum area of two acres.
   (B)   The principal building of any nursing home shall be located at least
25 feet from all lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-6)
§ 159.245 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The regulations of this section do not apply to travel trailers or other
recreational vehicles parked in a permitted travel trailer park that conforms
to the requirements of the Illinois Modular Dwelling and Mobile Structure
Safety Act, being 430 ILCS 115/1 et seq. The requirements of divisions (A), (C)
and (D) below do not apply to travel trailers or other recreational vehicles
parked on a permitted recreational vehicle sales lot.
   (A)   Not more than two travel trailers or recreational vehicles shall be
parked on any lot. They shall not be parked on a street.
   (B)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as a
dwelling.
   (C)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as an
office or for any other commercial purpose.
   (D)   Travel trailers or recreational vehicles shall be required to have
setbacks as required for accessory buildings.
   (E)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be parked on any
front yard.
   (F)   No unlicensed mobile home may be located in a travel trailer or
recreational vehicle park.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-7) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.246 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at
least 25 feet from any street right-of-way line, side lot line or rear lot
line.
   (B)   Every access way shall be located at least 200 feet from the principal
building of any fire station, school, public library, church, park or
playground, and at least 30 feet from any intersection of public streets.
   (C)   Every device for dispensing or selling milk, ice, soft drinks, snacks
and similar products shall be located within or adjacent to the principal
building.
   (D)   All trash receptacles, except minor receptacles adjacent to the
gasoline pumps, shall be screened from view.
   (E)   Whenever the use of a service station has been discontinued for 12
consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period, the
Administrator shall order that all underground storage tanks be removed or
filled with material approved by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   A permanent curb of at least four inches in height shall be provided
between the public sidewalk and the gasoline pump island, parallel to and
extending the complete length of the pump island.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-8) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.247 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   No private swimming pool shall be located in any front yard or closer
than ten feet to any side or rear lot line.
   (B)   Residents shall abide by regulations determined by their insurance
company concerning pool safety and precautions.
   (C)   All above ground swimming pools which are more than 24 inches deep or
high, but less than 42 inches deep or high, must have a protective fence, wall
or other effective permanent barrier which completely encloses the perimeter of
the swimming pool. The protective barrier must be at least 42 inches tall in
height.
   (D)   All in-ground pools must have a 42-inch-high protective barrier
completely enclosing the perimeter of the pool.
   (E)   This section does not apply to hot tubs which are covered.
   (F)   Should any above ground pool have a ladder, regardless of the height
of the pool, the ladder must either be removed from the pool or folded up and
chained in the up position.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-9) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.248 UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   Every electrical substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange
facility, private sewage treatment plant, private water storage facility or
similar facility shall be deemed a special use and shall conform to the
following regulations.
   (A)   Every lot on which any such facility is situated shall meet the
minimum area and dimension requirements of the district in which it is located.
Every part of any such facility shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot
lines, or shall meet the district setback requirements, whichever is greater.
   (B)   In any residential district, every such facility shall be designed,
constructed and operated so that it is compatible with the residential
character of the area.
   (C)   Screening at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to
block the view from adjacent property shall be installed around every such
facility. Furthermore, if the Administrator determines that the facility poses
a safety hazard (for example, if there are transformers exposed), he or she
shall require that a secure fence at least ten feet in height be installed
behind the planting screen.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-10) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.249 LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, parking areas, swimming pools
or for any other purpose shall be arranged in such a manner as to direct the
light away from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of
passing motorists.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-11) Penalty, see §
159.999
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 159.260 NATURE OF NON-CONFORMITIES.
   The requirements imposed by this chapter are designed to guide the use of
land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are compatible
with the predominant character of each of the various districts. Lots,
structures and uses of land or structures that do not conform to the
requirements of the district in which they are located tend to impede
appropriate development. For example, non- conformities are frequently
responsible for heavy traffic on residential streets, the overtaxing of parking
facilities, the creation of nuisances and/or the lowering of property values.
The regulations in this subchapter are intended to alleviate such existing/
potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of non-conformities.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-1)
§ 159.261 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   If the Zoning Board of Appeals grants a variance for any vacant lot that
does not conform to one or more of the lot size (area dimensions) requirements
of the district in which it is located, that lot may, nonetheless, be developed
for any use permitted in that district if such vacant lot:
   (A)   Was recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder of Deeds prior to
the effective date of this chapter (or pertinent amendment thereto); and
   (B)   Is at least 50 feet wide.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-2)
§ 159.262 TWO OR MORE LOTS IN COMMON OWNERSHIP.
   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage were of record and in common ownership on the effective
date of this chapter, and if one or more of those lots does not meet the
minimum lot width, depth or area requirements of the district in which it is
located, the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel. No portion
of any such parcel shall be developed, except in compliance with this chapter,
nor shall any such parcel be divided so as to create a lot that does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-2.1)
§ 159.263 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any otherwise lawful structure which exists on the effective date of
this chapter, but which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter
because of requirements/restrictions concerning lot size, height, setbacks or
other characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, may lawfully
remain, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Maintenance. A non-conforming structure may be maintained by
ordinary repairs.
      (2)   Enlargement, alterations. A non-conforming structure shall not be
enlarged or altered in any way which increases its non-conformity.
      (3)   Relocation. A non-conforming structure shall not be moved unless,
after relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district in
which it is situated.
      (4)   Reconstruction. No structure which is destroyed or damaged by any
means shall be reconstructed if the Administrator determines that the cost of
such reconstruction exceeds 50% of the structure’s market value at the time of
loss, unless after reconstruction the structure will conform to all applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located. In the event the
Administrator determines the estimated cost of reconstruction is less than 50%
of the structure’s market value at the time of loss, repairs or reconstruction
shall be permitted; provided, such work starts within six months from the date
the damage occurred and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
   (B)   The Administrator may require that the reconstruction cost estimate be
made by a bona fide construction contractor, and that the structure’s market
value at the time of loss be determined by a licensed real estate appraiser.
The owner of the damaged structure shall be responsible for obtaining these
estimates for the Administrator.
   (C)   As an alternative, the market value may be determined by the
Administrator by using the “state equalized assessed value” multiplied by the
number three.
   (D)   The provisions of division (A)(4) above shall not apply to single-
family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-3)
§ 159.264 NON-CONFORMING USES OCCUPYING A STRUCTURE.
   If any lawful use occupying a structure exists on the effective date of this
chapter, but would not be allowed under the terms of this chapter, such use may
lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. Any structure housing a non-conforming use may be
maintained through ordinary repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alteration, reconstruction, relocation. No structure
housing a non- conforming use shall be enlarged, structurally altered,
reconstructed or relocated unless the use of the structure is changed to a
permitted use.
   (C)   Extension of use. No non-conforming use may be extended to any part(s)
of the structure not intended or designed for such use, nor shall the non-
conforming use be extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
   (D)   Change of use. A non-conforming use occupying a structure may be
changed to a similar use, to a more restrictive use or to a conforming use.
Such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use.
   (E)   Discontinuance of use. When a non-conforming use of a structure or of
a structure and premises in combination is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months or for 18 months during any three- year period, the non-conforming use
shall not thereafter be resumed. Any discontinuance caused by government action
and without any contributing fault by the non-conforming user shall not be
counted in calculating the length of discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-4)
 
§ 159.265 NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   Any lawful use of land existing on the effective date of this chapter that
would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may lawfully continue,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Intensification or extension of use. A non-conforming use of land
shall not be intensified, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No non-conforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or
in part, unless such use, upon relocation, will conform to all pertinent
regulations of the district in which it is proposed to be located.
   (C)   Change of use. Whenever a non-conforming use of a building has been
changed to a more restrictive use or to a conforming use, such use shall not
thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use. If no structural alterations
are made, a non-conforming use of a building may be changed to another non-
conforming use of the same or more restricted classification.
   (D)   Discontinuance. When a non-conforming use of land is discontinued for
a period of 12 consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year
period, it shall not thereafter be resumed, and any subsequent use of such land
shall conform to the applicable district regulations. Any discontinuance caused
by government action and without any contributing fault by the owner or
operator shall not be counted in calculating the length of discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-5)
§ 159.266 NON-CONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall not apply to any change in an
existing structure or to any change in the use of a structure or of land for
which a permit was issued prior to effective date of this chapter or any
pertinent amendment thereto, provided that the work authorized by such permit
is completed within a reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-6)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 159.280 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of Zoning Administrator, who
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council for a term of two years.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. This broad
responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific
duties:
      (1)   To review and pass upon applications for initial and final
certificates of zoning compliance;
      (2)   To inspect lots, structures and uses to determine compliance with
this chapter, and where there are violations, to initiate appropriate
corrective action;
      (3)   To review and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all appeals
and applications for variances, special use permits and forward all amendments
to the Plan Commission.
      (4)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters related to this chapter,
including, but not limited to, district maps, certificates of zoning
compliance, special use permits, variances, interpretative decisions of the
Zoning Board of Appeals, amendments and all applications/documents related to
any of these items;
      (5)   To republish the zoning district map not later than March 31 if any
rezonings or annexations have been approved during the preceding calendar year;
      (6)   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
this chapter; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as the City Council may prescribe from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-1)
§ 159.281 INITIAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, no land shall be developed,
no new use or structure shall be established or erected, and no existing use or
structure shall be enlarged, extended, altered, relocated or reconstructed
until an initial certificate of zoning compliance has been issued.
   (B)   The Administrator shall not issue an initial certificate of zoning
compliance unless he or she determines that the proposed activity conforms to
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-2)
§ 159.282 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every applicant for an initial certificate of zoning compliance
shall submit to the Administrator, in graphic and/or narrative form, all the
items of information listed below that are applicable to the particular
project.
      (2)   The Administrator shall decide which items are applicable. (Note:
filing fee required in §
159.292 of this chapter.)
   (B)   Items of information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed lot,
structure or use, if different from division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Brief, general description/explanation of the proposal;
      (4)   Location of the proposed lot, use or structure, and its
relationship to adjacent lots, uses or structures;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or use;
      (6)   Existing topography of the site and proposed finished grade;
      (7)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
      (8)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
      (9)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (10)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways;
      (11)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed utilities,
whether public or private; and/or
      (12)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-2.1)
§ 159.283 DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Initial certificates of zoning compliance shall be valid for one year,
or until revoked for failure to abide by a corrective action order.
   (B)   The Administrator may renew initial certificates of zoning compliance
for successive one- year periods upon written request; provided, the applicant
is making a good faith effort to complete the authorized work.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-2.2)
§ 159.284 RELATIONSHIP TO BUILDING PERMITS.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter, no building permit for the
erection, enlargement, extension, alteration or reconstruction of any structure
shall be issued until the applicant for such permit has properly obtained an
initial certificate of zoning compliance pertaining to such work.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-2.3)
§ 159.285 FINAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   No lot or part thereof that has been recorded or developed after the
effective date of this chapter, and no structure or use, or part thereof, that
has been erected, enlarged, altered, relocated or reconstructed after the
effective date of this chapter shall be used, occupied or put into operation
until a final certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. The
Administrator shall not issue a final certificate of zoning compliance until it
has been determined, by inspection, that the work authorized by the initial
certificate of zoning compliance has been completed in accordance with approved
plans. Failure to obtain a final certificate of zoning compliance shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-3)
§ 159.286 CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS.
   Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds, by inspection or otherwise, that
any lot, structure or use, or work thereon is in violation of this chapter, he
or she shall so notify the responsible party, and shall order appropriate
corrective action.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-4)
§ 159.287 CONTENTS OF ORDER.
   The order to take corrective action shall be in writing and shall include:
   (A)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
   (B)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
   (C)   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
   (D)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
   (E)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference with
the Administrator if he or she so desires;
   (F)   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
   (G)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-4.1)
§ 159.288 SERVICE OF ORDER.
   A corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the owner,
occupant or operator of the offending lot, structure or use if it is:
   (A)   Served upon him or her personally;
   (B)   Sent by certified mail to his or her last known address; or
   (C)   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-4.2)
§ 159.289 STOP ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever any work being done in violation of an initial certificate of
zoning compliance, the Administrator’s corrective action order may state that
the violation be stopped immediately.
   (B)   In such case, the corrective action order is equivalent to a stop
order. (See §
159.287(D) of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-9-4.3)
§ 159.290 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the
Administrator determines that any violation of this chapter poses an imminent
peril to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or hearing,
any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-5)
§ 159.291 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the
Administrator. The Administrator shall record such complaints, promptly
investigate and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective action.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-6)
§ 159.292 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council establishes the following schedule of fees for
the various permits and procedures listed in this chapter.
      (2)   The fees are intended to defray the administrative costs connected
with the processing/conducting of such permits or procedures; the fees do not
constitute a tax or other revenue- raising device.
   (B)   All such fees shall be paid in advance by the applicant to the City
Clerk as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Zoning occupancy fees:
Accessory building                  $10 per building or $0.04 per square
                                    foot (whichever is greater)
Commercial or business structure    $100 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Industrial structure                $150 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Miscellaneous permit (i.e., parking $0.01 per square foot ($5 minimum) ($25
lot, deck, driveway and the like)   maximum)
Mobile home park permit             $500 or $25 per pad (whichever is
                                    greater, plus engineering costs, if any)
Mobile home unit and manufactured   $25 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
housing unit                        is greater)
Multi-family residence              $25 per unit or $0.04 per square foot
                                    (whichever is greater)
Plan development                    $500 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Single-family residence             $25 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Sign permit                         $5 or $.05 per square foot (whichever is
                                    greater)
Structural additions                $10 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
 
         (b)   All fees for the above projects that are started prior to
obtaining the zoning occupancy permit and/or paying the fees shall be doubled.
      (2)   Zoning Board of Appeals and Plan Commission fees:
 
Amendments                      $25, plus mailing and publication costs
Interpretation of code (appeal) $25, plus mailing and publication costs
Special use permit              $25, plus mailing and publication costs
Variance permit                 $25, plus mailing and publication costs
 
(Prior Code, § 40-9-7)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 159.305 ESTABLISHED.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established in accordance with state
law.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3
§ 159.306 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of seven members, all of whom
shall reside within the city. Each Board member shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council. One of the members so
appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the time of his or her appointment.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-2)
§ 159.307 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every member of the Zoning Board of Appeals, which was established
pursuant to the former Zoning Code shall be entitled to serve on the Zoning
Board of Appeals established by this subchapter until the date his or her term
of office would have expired if the former Zoning Code had remained in effect.
Any person appointed to the Zoning Board of Appeals on or after the effective
date of this chapter shall hold office for five years from the date of his or
her appointment, and until his or her successor has been selected and
qualified.
   (B)   With the advice and consent of the City Council, the Mayor may remove
any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals for cause after a public hearing.
Vacancies on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled for the unexpired term
of the member whose place has become vacant in the same manner as provided for
the appointment of new members.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-3)
§ 159.308 MEETING; QUORUM.
   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such times as the Board may determine. All Board meetings
shall be open to the public. The Board may adopt its own rules of meeting
procedures consistent with this chapter and the applicable state statutes. The
Board may select such officers as it deems necessary. The Chairperson, or in
his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum,
and the affirmative vote of at least four members shall be necessary to
authorize any Board action. See §
159.310 of this chapter for vote on decisions of Board.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-4)
§ 159.309 RECORDS.
   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and examinations. These
minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the vote or abstention of
each member on each question and any official action taken. A copy of every
rule, variance, order or decision of the Board shall be filed immediately with
the City Clerk and shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-5)
§ 159.310 DECISIONS.
   The concurring vote of four members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
necessary to grant a variance or special use permit. The order of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be by written letter and shall contain its findings of
fact.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-6)
§ 159.311 PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   No decision granting a variance or special use permit shall be valid for a
period longer than 12 months from the date of such decision unless an
application for a zoning certificate is obtained within such period and
construction, moving, remodeling or reconstruction is started, or an occupancy
certificate is obtained and a use is commenced. The Zoning Board of Appeals may
grant additional extensions of time not exceeding 180 days, each upon written
application made within the initial 12- month period without further notice or
hearing, but said right to so extend said time shall not include the right to
grant additional relief by expanding the scope of the variation.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-7)
§ 159.312 FINALITY OF DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals, on appeal or upon
application for a variation shall, in all instances, be final administrative
determination and shall be subject to review by a court in the manner provided
by applicable state statutes.
   (B)   No applicant shall apply for the same or identical request for a
period of one year unless the facts and/or request have substantially changed.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-8)
§ 159.313 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Board
to serve until his or her successor is appointed. The Secretary shall record
the minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals’ proceedings and actions, showing
the vote of each member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact. He or she shall perform such other duties as may be
assigned from time to time by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-9)
APPEALS
§ 159.325 ALLOWED TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Zoning
Administrator in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any
provisions of this chapter may be made and treated in accordance with state law
and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The applicant generally files a request for a variance, a special use
permit or an amendment instead of just an appeal.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-12
§ 159.326 FILING, RECORD TRANSMITTAL.
   Every appeal shall be made within 45 days of the matter complained of by
filing with the Administrator and the Zoning Board of Appeals a written notice
specifying the grounds for appeal. Every appeal shall also be filed with the
Soil and Water Conservation District as per state law. Not more than five
working days after the notice of appeal has been filed, the Administrator shall
transmit to the Zoning Board of Appeals all records pertinent to the case.
(Note: a filing fee is required.)
(Prior Code, § 40-10-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 70 ILCS 405/22.02(a)
§ 159.327 STAY OF FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all further action on the matter being appealed unless the
Administrator certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals after the notice of
appeal has been filed with him or her, that for reasons stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, further action shall not be stayed unless the Zoning Board of Appeals or
the Circuit Court grants a restraining order for due cause and so notifies the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-13)
§ 159.328 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every
appeal within a reasonable time after the filing of the appeal notice. At the
hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by
duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and briefly
describing the issue to be decided shall be given not more than 30 days, nor
less than 15 days, before the hearing:
      (1)   By first-class mail to all parties whose property is within 250
feet of the lot affected by the appeal; and
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-14)
§ 159.329 DECISION BY BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall render a decision on the appeal
within a reasonable time after the hearing.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify or amend the decision or order appealed from the extent and in
the manner that it deems appropriate.
   (C)   In so doing, the Zoning Board of Appeals has all the power of the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-15)
VARIANCES
§ 159.340 DEFINITION.
   (A)   A VARIANCE is a relaxation of the requirements of this chapter that
are applicable to a particular lot, structure or use.
   (B)   A so-called USE VARIANCE (which would allow a use that is neither
permitted nor special in the district in question) is not a variance, it is an
amendment and may be granted only as provided for in §
159.370 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-18)
§ 159.341 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a variance shall be filed with the Administrator
on a prescribed form. Every variance application shall also be filed with the
Soil and Water Conservation District as per state law. The Administrator shall
promptly transmit said application, together with any device he or she might
wish to offer, to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The application shall contain sufficient information to allow the
Zoning Board of Appeals to make an informed decision and shall include, at a
minimum, the following: (Note: a filing fee is required.)
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the structure/use for which the variance is sought;
      (3)   Brief description of adjacent lots, structures and/or uses;
      (4)   Brief description of the problems/circumstances engendering the
variance request;
      (5)   Brief, but specific, statement, explanation of the desired
variance;
      (6)   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations
which, if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem; and
      (7)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may require.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 70 ILCS 405/22.02(a)
§ 159.342 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on each
variance request within a reasonable time after the variance application is
submitted to it. At the hearing any interested party may appear and testify
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the
nature of the proposed variance shall be given not more than 30, nor less than
15, days before the hearing:
      (1)   By first-class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property is within 250 feet of the property affected by the proposed variance;
and
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-20)
§ 159.343 STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant any variance unless, based
upon the evidence presented to it, it determines that:
       (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter (see §
159.002 of this chapter);
      (2)   Strict application of the district requirements would result in
great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant and prevent a
reasonable return on the property;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship, and allow a
reasonable return on the property;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other property within the district and, therefore, that a
variance would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment (rezoning); and
      (6)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the area where the premises in question are located, nor materially frustrate
implementation of the municipality’s comprehensive plan.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the location, construction, design and use of the property
benefitted by a variation as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with the
foregoing standards and to protect adjacent property and property values.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-21)
§ 159.344 TERMS OF RELIEF; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall decide on every variance request
within a reasonable time after the public hearing.
   (B)   In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-11), the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall specify the terms of relief recommended, if any, in one statement
and its findings of fact in another statement.
   (C)   The findings of fact shall clearly indicate the Zoning Board of
Appeals’ reasons for granting or denying any requested variance.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-22)
SPECIAL USES
§ 159.355 PERMITS.
   This chapter divides the city into various districts, and permits in each
district as a matter of right only those uses which are clearly compatible with
one another. Certain other uses, because of their special operational or
physical characteristics, may or may not have a detrimental impact on nearby
permitted uses, depending upon their precise location, manner of operation and
other factors. Such “special uses” require careful case by case review and may
be allowed only after review and approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-24)
§ 159.356 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a special use permit shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of information
enumerated below. The Administrator shall promptly transmit the completed
application, together with any comments or recommendation he or she might have,
to the Zoning Board of Appeals. (Note: a filing fee is required in § 159.292 of
this chapter.)
   (B)   Items of information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed structure
or use, if different from division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees and similar matters;
      (4)   Location of the proposed use or structure and its relationship to
existing uses of structures on adjacent lots;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or use;
      (6)   Existing topography of the site and proposed finished grade;
      (7)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
      (8)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
      (9)   Number and size of the proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (10)   Number and location of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways;
      (11)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed utilities,
whether public or private; and/or
      (12)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-25)
§ 159.357 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every
special use permit application within a reasonable time after the application
is submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and
testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed special use shall be given not more than 30 days, nor
less than 15 days, before the hearing:
      (1)   By first-class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property is within 250 feet of the lot line of the proposed special use; and
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-26)
§ 159.358 FACTORS CONSIDERED BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider the following factors in making a
decision:
   (A)   Whether the proposed design, location and manner of operation of the
proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and the physical environment;
   (B)   Whether the proposed special use is consistent with the municipality’s
comprehensive plan, if any;
   (C)   The effect the proposed special use would have on the value of
neighboring property and on the municipality’s overall tax base;
   (D)   The effect the proposed special use would have on public utilities and
on the traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
   (E)   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use (such
as schools or hospitals) that require special protection.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-27)
§ 159.359 DECISION; FINDINGS OF FACTS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall reach a decision on every special-use
permit application within a reasonable time after public hearing. In accordance
with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-11), the Zoning Board of Appeals shall specify
the terms and conditions of the permit to be granted (if any) in one statement
and its findings of fact in another statement. The findings of fact shall be
responsive in the decision-making factors listed in the preceding section and
shall clearly indicate the Zoning Board of Appeal’s reasons for granting, with
or without modifications and/or conditions, or denying the requested special
use permit.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-28)
AMENDMENTS
§ 159.370 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may amend this chapter in accordance with state law and the
provisions of this section. Proposed alterations of district boundaries or
proposed changes in the status of uses (permitted, special, prohibited) shall
be deemed proposed amendments. Amendments may be proposed by the City Council,
the Administrator, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Plan Commission or any
party in interest.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14
§ 159.371 FILING.
   Every proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed with the Administrator
on a prescribed form. Every amendment proposal shall also be filed with the
Soil and Water Conservation District pursuant to state law. The Administrator
shall promptly transmit said proposal, together with any comments or
recommendations he or she might wish to make to the Plan Commission for a
public hearing. (Note: a filing fee is required in §
159.292 of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 40-10-31)
§ 159.372 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on every amendment
proposal within a reasonable time after said proposal has been submitted to
them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the
nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30, nor less than
15, days before the hearing:
      (1)   By first-class mail to all parties whose property is within 250
feet of the property affected by the proposed amendment; and
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-32)
§ 159.373 ADVISORY REPORT; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Plan Commission
shall submit its advisory report to the City Council. The report shall state
the recommendations of the Plan Commission regarding adoption of the proposed
amendment and the reasons therefor.
   (B)   If the effect of the proposed amendment would be to alter district
boundaries or to change the status of any use, the Board of Appeals shall
include in its advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the
following matters:
      (1)   Existing use and zoning of the property in question;
      (2)   Existing uses and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property in question;
      (3)   Suitability of the property in question for uses already permitted
under existing regulations;
      (4)   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use; and
      (5)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since that
property was initially zoned or last rezoned.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-33)
§ 159.374 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall act on every proposed amendment at its next
regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report of the
Plan Commission. Without further public hearing, the City Council may approve
or disapprove any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Plan
Commission for further consideration by simple majority vote of all the members
then holding office.
   (B)   The favorable vote of at least two-thirds of all the members of the
City Council is required to pass an amendment to this chapter when the proposed
amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed
to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-34)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, plus costs. Each day on which a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking
any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-8)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Extending the authorization to Ameren Illinois Company, d/
14-601   3-12-2014   b/a Ameren Illinois, to construct, operate and maintain a
                     gas utility system
                     Extending the authorization to Ameren Illinois Company, d/
14-602   3-12-2014   b/a Ameren Illinois, to construct, operate and maintain an
                     electric utility system
18-626   6-14-2018   Addressing the payment of cable television franchise fees
21-647   4-8-2021    Loan agreement with the Illinois Environmental Protection
                     Agency
23-659   7-13-2023   Loan agreement with the Illinois Environmental Protection
                     Agency
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                         Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                       10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                       10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                       10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                       10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.07                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                       10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                       10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                       10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                          10.04
5 ILCS 120/1                         30.054
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                 30.054
5 ILCS 120/2.02                      30.052;
                                     30.060
5 ILCS 120/2.03                      30.052
5 ILCS 120/2.06                      30.054
5 ILCS 120/7.3                       32.05
5 ILCS 140/11 et seq.                30.013
5 ILCS 270/1                         30.007
10 ILCS                              30.002
20 ILCS 5/47-10                      91.047
20 ILCS 2520/1 et seq.               36.087
25 ILCS 320/3                        51.061
                                     31.062;
30 ILCS 235/1 et seq.                35.07;
                                     36.116
30 ILCS 235/6                        31.062
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.                52.001
35 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                  36.029
35 ILCS 110/1 et seq.                110.01
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.                110.01
35 ILCS 120/1                        36.026;
                                     36.046
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                110.01
                                     36.026,
35 ILCS 635/1 et seq.                152.002;
                                     152.030
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.              36.025
35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.                36.026
40 ILCS 5/7-171                      36.011
40 ILCS 5/21.110                     36.004
40 ILCS 5/21.110.1                   36.004
50 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                 35.08
50 ILCS 105/2                        30.003;
                                     30.090
65 ILCS                              50.056
65 ILCS 5                            10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                      10.02;
                                     30.012
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5)                   10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                      10.99;
                                     157.10
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                    10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3                      10.01;
                                     10.09
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4                      31.022
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5                      31.022
65 ILCS 5/1-2-6                      10.18
65 ILCS 5/1-2-7                      10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-8                      10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.1                    10.23
                                     70.01;
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2                      130.01;
                                     130.02
65 ILCS 5/2-2-12                     30.001;
                                     30.009
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35                  31.031
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1                      30.009
65 ILCS 5/8-9-2                      30.009
65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1                    10.17
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5                   30.006
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6                   30.004
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10                  30.002
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15                  30.002
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20                  30.004
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25                  30.004
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30                  30.004;
                                     30.007
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35                  30.004
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40                  30.004;
                                     31.033
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45                  31.035;
                                     31.056
                                     30.005;
                                     30.053;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50                  30.058;
                                     30.087;
                                     31.021
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(b)               30.053;
                                     31.021
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(d)               30.050
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5                   30.085;
                                     31.020
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10                  30.085;
                                     30.088
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15                  30.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20                  31.027
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-10                  30.050
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-75(b)               30.006
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                   31.020;
                                     31.075
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10                  31.035
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5                   30.094
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10                  30.091
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20                  30.088
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30                  30.089
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35                  30.086
                                     31.053;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40                  31.054;
                                     31.058
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45                  31.054;
                                     31.059
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50                  31.062
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55                  31.055
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65                  31.061
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70                  31.061
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85                  31.057
                                     30.001;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90                  31.022;
                                     31.023
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95                  31.035
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110                 31.022;
                                     31.028
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115                 31.034
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-2                   30.051
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15                  30.059
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20                  30.056—
                                     30.058
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25                  30.052
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35                  30.054
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40                  30.032
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45                  30.033
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50                  30.034
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55                  30.035
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5                   30.098
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5                   30.010;
                                     31.005
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10                  30.010;
                                     31.005
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15                  30.013;
                                     31.005
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5                   30.090
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1                      36.001
65 ILCS 5/8-8-8                      36.003
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                     36.046
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                     36.999
65 ILCS 5/10-1-1 et seq.             35.07
65 ILCS 5/10-1-1                     35.07
                                     90.010;
                                     90.071;
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1                     130.02;
                                     130.03;
                                     131.03
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3                     36.002
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                     133.15;
                                     133.16
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6                     37.06
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1                     132.025;
                                     132.026
                                     91.075;
                                     91.076;
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2                     91.079;
                                     130.05;
                                     131.56
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3                     132.055
65 ILCS 5/11-5-4                     130.15
65 ILCS 5/11-5-6                     90.006;
                                     90.010
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4                     132.042
65 ILCS 5/11-12                      158.233
65 ILCS 5/11-12-11                   158.005
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                   157.10;
                                     158.230
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.            159.002
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3                    159.305
65 ILCS 5/11-13-4                    157.08
65 ILCS 5/11-13-5                    157.08
65 ILCS 5/11-13-11                   159.344;
                                     159.359
65 ILCS 5/11-13-12                   159.325
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14                   159.370;
                                     159.374
65 ILCS 5/11-13-19                   159.022
65 ILCS 5/11-20-6                    91.026
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                    91.026
                                     90.010;
65 ILCS 5/11-20-9                    90.031;
                                     90.071
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13                   91.047
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                    157.10
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                    157.10
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                    150.08
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1(e)                 150.09
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                    157.10
65 ILCS 5/11-42-3                    113.57
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                    113.11;
                                     113.36
65 ILCS 5/11-50-1                    36.009;
                                     36.013
65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-1 et seq.          94.32
                                     94.01;
65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-2                  94.03—
                                     94.05
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2                    91.005
65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23 155.42
65 ILCS 5/11-80-2                    154.084
                                     154.008;
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3                    154.010;
                                     154.011
65 ILCS 5/11-80-5                    36.012
65 ILCS 5/11-80-7                    154.047;
                                     154.067
65 ILCS 5/11-80-11                   154.046
                                     130.17;
65 ILCS 5/11-80-13                   154.045;
                                     154.102
65 ILCS 5/11-80-15                   131.39
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17                   154.007
65 ILCS 5/11-80-23                   36.010
65 ILCS 5/11-95-3                    92.004
65 ILCS 5/11-125-4                   51.095
65 ILCS 5/11-142-3                   36.007
65 ILCS 5/12-611                     71.10
                                     158.021;
70 ILCS 405/22.02(a)                 159.326;
                                     159.341
70 ILCS 605/2-1 through 2-12         159.241
75 ILCS 5/1-2                        35.01
75 ILCS 5/1-6                        35.12
75 ILCS 5/3-1                        36.006
75 ILCS 5/3-4                        36.006
75 ILCS 5/4 et seq.                  35.15
75 ILCS 5/4-1                        30.003;
                                     35.02
75 ILCS 5/4-1.1                      35.03
75 ILCS 5/4-4                        35.04
75 ILCS 5/4-5                        35.02
75 ILCS 5/4-6                        35.05
75 ILCS 5/4-7                        35.07;
                                     35.10
75 ILCS 5/4-7.1                      35.08
75 ILCS 5/4-7.2                      35.09
75 ILCS 5/4-9                        35.06
75 ILCS 5/4-10                       35.11
75 ILCS 5/5-1                        35.07
75 ILCS 5/5-2                        35.07
75 ILCS 10/1 et seq.                 35.07
85 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.               111.001;
                                     111.018
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.               151.02;
                                     151.40
210 ILCS 115/2.3                     151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.4                     151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.5                     151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.7                     151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.10                    151.01
                                     151.02;
                                     151.40;
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.               157.27;
                                     159.006;
                                     159.090;
                                     159.091
220 ILCS 5/9-221                     36.026
220 ILCS 5/9-222                     36.026
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                   36.026
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.                152.109
220 ILCS 65/4                        152.031
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.               52.033
225 ILCS 225/1 through 23            159.033
225 ILCS 425/1 et seq.               132.001;
                                     158.178
225 ILCS 460/1 et seq.               113.10
230 ILCS 15/1                        115.01
230 ILCS 15/1 et sq.                 115.07
                                     115.02;
230 ILCS 15/2                        115.03;
                                     115.10
230 ILCS 15/3                        115.05;
                                     115.06
230 ILCS 15/4                        115.07
230 ILCS 15/6                        115.08
230 ILCS 15/8.1                      115.10
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                111.018
235 ILCS                             111.020;
                                     111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.               111.020;
                                     111.168
235 ILCS 5/1-3.02                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.04                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.06                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1                  111.001;
                                     111.023
235 ILCS 5/1-3.18                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.21                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.22                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.23                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.25                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.30                    111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.34                    111.001
                                     111.015;
                                     111.019;
                                     111.020;
                                     111.022;
235 ILCS 5/4-1                       111.025;
                                     111.040;
                                     111.049;
                                     111.083;
                                     111.111;
                                     111.112
235 ILCS 5/4-2                       30.096
235 ILCS 5/4-4                       111.050;
                                     111.167
235 ILCS 5/4-5                       111.017
235 ILCS 5/6-1                       111.021
235 ILCS 5/6-2                       111.018
235 ILCS 5/6-5                       111.052
235 ILCS 5/6-10                      111.051
235 ILCS 5/6-11                      111.041
235 ILCS 5/6-12                      111.043
235 ILCS 5/6-15                      111.052
                                     111.110;
                                     111.116—
235 ILCS 5/6-16                      111.118;
                                     111.132;
                                     111.133
2235 ILCS 5/6-17                     111.052
                                     111.113;
235 ILCS 5/6-20                      111.115;
                                     111.130;
                                     111.131
235 ILCS 5/6-22                      111.052
235 ILCS 5/6-24                      111.024
235 ILCS 5/6-28                      111.068
235 ILCS 5/6-28                      111.066
235 ILCS 5/7-1                       111.016
235 ILCS 5/7-5                       111.168
                                     111.151;
235 ILCS 5/7-9                       111.169;
                                     111.170
235 ILCS 5/7-13                      111.149
235 ILCS 5/7-14                      111.042
235 ILCS 5/10-2                      111.145
235 ILCS 5/10-3                      111.146
235 ILCS 5/10-4                      111.165
235 ILCS 5/10-5                      111.166
235 ILCS 5/10-6                      111.147
235 ILCS 5/10-7                      111.148
235 ILCS 5/5-1(e)                    111.023
410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.               111.095
410 ILCS 650/10                      111.096
415 ILCS 5/4(e)                      51.061
415 ILCS 5/14.2                      51.095
415 ILCS 5/14.2(c)                   51.098
415 ILCS 5/14.2(d)                   51.098
415 ILCS 5/14.3                      51.095
415 ILCS 5/14.5                      51.098
425 ILCS 60/1 through 60/4           151.07
430 ILCS 115/1 et seq.               151.03;
                                     159.245
430 ILCS 150                         131.41
430 ILCS 165                         132.004
510 ILCS 5/1                         90.001
510 ILCS 5/2                         90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.02                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.03                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.05                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.06                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.11                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.12                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.13                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.14                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.15                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.16                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.18                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.19                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/10                        90.045
510 ILCS 5/15                        90.002
510 ILCS 5/16                        90.070
510 ILCS 5/17                        90.069;
                                     90.071
510 ILCS 5/24                        90.002;
                                     90.071
510 ILCS 5/152                       90.002
605 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.               152.002
615 ILCS 5/5 through 5/29(a)         157.06
625 ILCS 1                           Ch. 71;
                                     70.01
625 ILCS 5                           93.09
625 ILCS 5/1-188                     10.02
625 ILCS 5/3-815                     72.04
625 ILCS 5/4-201                     93.01;
                                     93.02
625 ILCS 5/4-202                     93.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203                     93.04
625 ILCS 5/4-204                     93.05
625 ILCS 5/4-205                     93.06
625 ILCS 5/4-206                     93.07
625 ILCS 5/4-207                     93.08
625 ILCS 5/4-209                     93.10
625 ILCS 5/4-210                     93.11
625 ILCS 5/4-211                     93.12
625 ILCS 5/4-213                     93.13
625 ILCS 5/4-214                     93.99
625 ILCS 5/6-306.5                   72.11
625 ILCS 5/11-203                    70.02
625 ILCS 5/11-206                    73.01
625 ILCS 5/11-208                    71.41
625 ILCS 5/11-301                    70.15
625 ILCS 5/11-302                    71.42
625 ILCS 5/11-304                    71.44
625 ILCS 5/11-415                    71.08
625 ILCS 5/11-500                    73.28
625 ILCS 5/11-502                    71.09
625 ILCS 5/11-502 through 11/502     73.28
625 ILCS 5/11-504                    71.03
625 ILCS 5/11-505                    71.10
625 ILCS 5/11-604                    71.26
625 ILCS 5/11-605                    71.27
625 ILCS 5/11-608                    71.25
625 ILCS 5/11-1006                   113.10
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                 72.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1302                   72.99
625 ILCS 5/12-602                    70.31
625 ILCS 5/12-605                    70.30
625 ILCS 5/12-605.1                  70.30
625 ILCS 5/12-605.2                  70.30
625 ILCS 11                          Ch. 71;
                                     71.01
625 ILCS 12                          70.30
625 ILCS 12/611                      71.10
625 ILCS 18c-1101 et seq.            159.006
625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.              73.45
705 ILCS 405                         10.99
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.             133.01
715 ILCS 5/1                         51.096
715 ILCS 55/1                        51.096
720 ILCS                             Ch. 130;
                                     130.02
720 ILCS 2-1 through 2-11            130.01
720 ILCS 2-1 et seq.                 Ch. 130
720 ILCS 2-13 through 2-16           130.01
720 ILCS 2-19                        130.01
720 ILCS 2-20                        130.01
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.               111.018;
                                     115.01
720 ILCS 5/11-22                     132.027
720 ILCS 5/16-1                      131.04
720 ILCS 5/21-1                      131.05
720 ILCS 5/25-1                      91.076
720 ILCS 5/26-1                      132.001
720 ILCS 5/31-1                      132.002
720 ILCS 5/31-6(c)                   130.10
720 ILCS 5/31-7                      130.09
720 ILCS 5/31-8                      132.003
720 ILCS 5/32-9                      131.09
720 ILCS 5/47-10                     91.047
720 ILCS 68/1 et seq.                116.02
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.             132.072
720 ILCS 675/1                       116.01
740 ILCS 55/221                      91.001
740 ILCS 55/222                      91.001
745 ILCS 10/1-101                    158.006;
                                     159.005
745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.            30.008
745 ILCS 10/9-107                    36.005;
                                     36.008
                                     158.002;
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.               158.021;
                                     158.115
765 ILCS 205/1(b)                    158.021;
                                     158.076
765 ILCS 205/1                       158.119
765 ILCS 205/2                       158.078
765 ILCS 205/6                       158.083
765 ILCS 205/7                       158.083
765 ILCS 205/8                       158.083
805 ILCS 105/1-1.1 et seq.           111.167
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code      2021 Code
1-1-1           10.01
1-1-2           10.18
1-1-3           10.09
1-1-4           10.19
1-1-5           10.20
1-1-8           10.12
1-1-9           10.21
1-1-10          10.22
1-1-11          10.10
1-1-15          10.02
1-1-16          10.02
1-1-17          10.03
1-1-20          10.99
1-1-21          10.99
1-1-22          10.23
1-1-23          10.24
1-1-24          10.25
1-1-25          10.26
1-2-1           30.050
1-2-2           30.051
1-2-3           30.052
1-2-4           30.053
1-2-5           30.054
1-2-6           30.055
1-2-7           30.056
1-2-8           30.057
1-2-9           30.058
1-2-11          30.059
1-2-12          30.060
1-2-14          30.030—
                30.033
1-2-15          30.034
1-2-16          30.035
1-2-19          30.001
1-2-20          30.002
1-2-21          30.003
1-2-22          30.004
1-2-23          30.005
1-2-24          30.006
1-2-25          30.007
1-2-26          30.008
1-2-27          30.009
1-2-28          30.010
1-2-29          30.011
1-2-30          30.012
1-2-32          30.014
1-2-33          30.015
1-2-34          30.016
1-2-35          30.017
1-2-40          30.085
1-2-41          30.086
1-2-42          30.087
1-2-43          30.088
1-2-44          30.089
1-2-45          30.090
1-2-46          30.091
1-2-47          30.092
1-2-48          30.093
1-2-49          30.094
1-2-50          30.095
1-2-51          30.096
1-2-52          30.097
1-2-53          30.098
1-2-56          31.020
1-2-57          31.021
1-2-58          31.022
1-2-59          31.023
1-2-60          31.024
1-2-61          31.025
1-2-62          31.026
1-2-63          31.027
1-2-64          31.028
1-2-65          31.029
1-2-66          31.030
1-2-67          31.031
1-2-69          31.032
1-2-70          31.033
1-2-71          31.034
1-2-72          31.035
1-2-73          31.050
1-2-74          31.051
1-2-75          31.052
1-2-76          31.053
1-2-77          31.054
1-2-78          31.055
1-2-79          31.056
1-2-80          31.057
1-2-81          31.058
1-2-82          31.059
1-2-83          31.060
1-2-84          31.061
1-2-85          31.062
1-2-88          31.075
1-2-89          31.076
1-2-108         31.001
1-2-109         31.001
1-2-112         31.002
1-2-113         31.002
1-2-114         31.002
1-2-115         31.002
1-3-1           31.003
1-4-1           31.004
1-4-2           31.004
1-5-1           31.005
1-5-11          36.115
1-5-12          36.116
1-5-13          36.117
1-5-14          36.118
1-5-15          36.119
1-5-16          36.120
1-5-17          36.121
1-5-18          36.122
1-5-19          36.123
1-5-20          36.124
1-5-22          36.135
1-5-23          36.136
1-5-24          36.137
1-5-25          36.138
1-5-26          36.139
1-5-27          36.140
1-5-28          36.141
3-1-1           90.001
3-1-2           90.002
3-1-3           90.003
3-1-4           90.004
3-1-5           90.005
3-1-6           90.006
3-1-7           90.007
3-1-8           90.008
3-1-9           90.009
3-1-10          90.010
3-2-1           90.025
3-2-2           90.026
3-2-3           90.027
3-2-4           90.028
3-2-5           90.029
3-2-6           90.030
3-2-7           90.031
3-2-8           90.045
3-2-9           90.046
3-2-10          90.047
3-2-11          90.048
3-2-12          90.049
3-2-13          90.050
3-2-14          90.051
3-2-15          90.032
3-2-16          90.033
3-2-17          90.034
3-3-1           90.065
3-3-2           90.066
3-3-3           90.067
3-3-4           90.068
3-3-5           90.069
3-3-6           90.070
3-3-7           90.071
3-4-17          90.999
3-5-1           90.115
3-5-2           90.116
3-5-3           90.117
3-5-4           90.118
3-5-5           90.119
3-5-6           90.120
3-5-7           90.121
3-5-8           90.122
3-5-9           90.123
3-5-10          90.124
3-5-11          90.125
3-5-12          90.126
3-5-13          90.127
3-5-14          90.128
3-5-15          90.129
3-5-16          90.130
3-5-17          90.131
3-6-1           90.145
3-6-2           90.146
3-6-3           90.147
4-1-1           158.225
4-1-2           158.226
4-1-3           158.227
4-1-4           158.228
4-1-5           158.229
4-1-6           158.230
4-1-7           158.231
4-1-8           158.232
4-1-9           158.233
6-1-1           159.008
6-1-2           159.008
6-1-3           159.008
6-1-4           159.008
7-1-1           110.01
7-1-2           110.02
7-1-3           110.03
7-1-4           110.04
7-1-5           110.05
7-1-6           110.06
7-1-7           110.07
7-1-8           110.08
7-1-9           110.09
7-1-10          110.21—
                110.23
7-1-11          110.35—
                110.38
7-1-12          110.38
7-1-13          110.50—
                110.57
7-1-14          110.58
7-1-15          110.59
7-2-1           113.01
7-2-2           113.02
7-2-3           113.03
7-2-4           113.04
7-2-5           113.05
7-2-6           113.06
7-2-7           113.07
7-2-8           113.08
7-2-9           113.09
7-2-10          113.10
7-2-11          113.11
7-3-1           113.25
7-3-2           113.26
7-3-3           113.27
7-3-4           113.28
7-3-5           113.29
7-3-6           113.30
7-3-7           113.31
7-3-8           113.32
7-3-9           113.33
7-3-10          113.34
7-3-11          113.35
7-3-12          113.36
7-4-1           113.50
7-4-2           113.51;
                113.52
7-4-3           113.53
7-4-5           113.54
7-4-6           113.55
7-4-7           113.56
7-4-8           113.57
7-5-1           115.01
7-5-2           115.02
7-5-3           115.03
7-5-4           115.04
7-5-5           115.05
7-5-6           115.06
7-5-7           115.07
7-5-8           115.08
7-5-10          115.10
7-6-1           112.01
7-6-2           112.02
7-6-3           112.20
7-6-4           112.21
7-6-5           112.22
7-6-6           112.23
7-6-7           112.24
7-6-8           112.25
7-6-9           112.26
7-6-10          112.27
7-6-11          112.28
7-6-12          112.03
7-6-13          112.04;
                112.22
7-6-15          112.05
7-6-16          112.06
7-6-17          112.07
Ch. 8           114.01
9-1-1           94.01
9-1-2           94.02
9-1-3           94.03
9-1-4           94.04
9-1-5           94.05
9-1-6           94.06
9-1-7           94.07
9-1-8           94.08
9-1-9           94.09
9-1-10          94.10
9-1-11          94.11
9-2-1           94.25
9-2-2           94.26
9-2-3           94.27
9-2-4           94.28
9-2-5           94.29
9-2-6           94.30
9-2-7           94.31
9-2-8           94.32
9-2-9           94.33
9-2-10          94.34
9-2-11          94.35
9-2-12          94.36
9-2-13          94.37
9-2-14          94.38
9-2-15          94.39
9-2-16          94.40
9-2-17          94.41
9-2-18          94.42
Ch. 12          33.01
13-1-1          96.01
13-1-2          96.02
13-1-3          96.03
13-1-4          96.99
14-1-1          157.01
14-1-2          157.02
14-1-3          157.03
14-1-4          157.04
14-1-5          157.05
14-1-6          157.06
14-1-7          157.25—
                157.30
14-1-8          157.07
14-1-10         157.09
14-1-11         157.99
14-1-12         157.10
15-1-1          32.04
15-1-2          32.04
15-1-3          32.04
15-1-4          32.04
15-1-5          32.04
15-1-6          32.04
15-1-7          32.04
15-1-8          32.04
15-1-9          32.04
15-1-10         32.04
15-1-11         32.04
15-1-12         32.04
15-1-13         32.04
15-1-14         32.04
15-1-15         32.04
16-1-1          53.01
16-1-2          53.02
16-1-3          53.03
16-1-4          53.04
16-1-5          53.05
16-1-6          53.06
16-1-7          53.07
16-1-8          53.08
16-1-9          53.09
16-1-10         53.10
20-1-1          35.01
20-1-2          35.02
20-1-3          35.03
20-1-4          35.04
20-1-5          35.05
20-1-7          35.07
20-1-8          35.08
20-1-9          35.09
20-1-10         35.10
20-1-11         35.11
20-1-12         35.12
20-1-13         35.13
20-1-14         35.14
20-1-15         35.15
21-1-1          111.001
21-2-1          111.015
21-2-2          111.016
21-2-3          111.017
21-2-4          111.018
21-2-5          111.019
21-2-6          111.020
21-2-7          111.021
21-2-8          111.022
21-2-9          111.023
21-2-10         111.024
21-2-11         111.025
21-2-12         111.002
21-3-1          111.040
21-3-2          111.065—
                111.068
21-3-3          111.041
21-3-4          111.042
21-3-5          111.043
21-3-6          111.044
21-3-7          111.080
21-3-8          111.045
21-3-9          111.046
21-3-10         111.047
21-3-11         111.081
21-3-12         111.048
21-3-13         111.095
21-3-14         111.096
21-3-15         111.097
21-3-16         111.049
21-3-17         111.082
21-3-18         111.083
21-3-19         111.110
21-3-20         111.111
21-3-21         111.112
21-3-22         111.113
21-3-23         111.130
21-3-24         111.131
21-3-25         111.114
21-3-26         111.115
21-3-27         111.050
21-3-28         111.051
21-3-29         111.052
21-3-30         111.132
21-3-31         111.133
21-3-32         111.116
21-3-33         111.117
21-3-34         111.118
21-4-1          111.145
21-4-2          111.146
21-4-3          111.165
21-4-4          111.166
21-4-5          111.147
21-4-6          111.148
21-4-7          111.149
21-4-8          111.167
21-4-9          111.150
21-4-10         111.168
21-4-11         111.169
21-4-12         111.151
21-4-13         111.170
22-1-1          32.02
22-1-2          32.02
22-1-3          32.02
22-1-4          32.02
22-1-5          32.02
22-1-6          32.02
22-1-7          32.02
22-1-8          32.02
22-2-1          32.03
22-2-2          32.03
22-2-3          32.03
23-1-2          151.02
23-1-3          151.03
23-1-4          151.04
23-1-5          151.05
23-1-6          151.06
23-1-7          151.07
23-1-8          151.08
23-1-9          151.09
23-1-10         151.10
23-2-1          151.25
23-2-2          151.26
23-2-3          151.27
23-2-4          151.28
23-2-5          151.29
23-3-1          151.40
23-3-2          151.41
23-3-3          151.42
23-3-4          151.43
23-3-5          151.44
23-3-6          151.45
23-3-7          151.46
23-3-10         151.60
23-3-11         151.61
23-3-12         151.62
23-3-13         151.63
23-3-17         151.47
23-3-18         151.48
23-3-21         151.49
24-1-1          70.01
24-2-1          70.02
24-2-2          70.03
24-2-3          70.15
24-2-4          70.16
24-2-5          70.17
24-2-6          70.18
24-2-7          73.01
24-2-8          73.02
                73.03—
24-2-9          73.10;
                73.99
24-3-1          71.40
24-3-2          71.41
24-3-3          71.42
24-3-4          71.43
24-3-5          71.44
24-4-1          71.01
                71.02—
24-4-2          71.07;
                71.25—
                71.28
24-4-3          71.08
24-4-4          71.09
24-4-5          71.10
24-4-6          71.10
24-4-7          71.10
24-4-8          71.11
24-4-9          71.10
24-4-10         71.10
24-5-1          70.30
24-5-2          70.31
24-5-3          70.32;
                70.99
24-6-1          72.01
24-6-2          72.02
24-6-3          72.03
24-6-4          72.04
24-6-5          72.05;
                72.99
24-6-6          72.06
24-6-7          72.07
24-6-8          72.08
24-6-9          72.09
24-6-10         72.10
24-6-11         72.11
24-7-1          93.01
24-7-2          93.02
24-7-3          93.03
24-7-4          93.04
24-7-5          93.05
24-7-6          93.06
24-7-7          93.07
24-7-8          93.08
24-7-9          93.09
24-7-10         93.10
24-7-11         93.11
24-7-12         93.12
24-7-13         93.13
24-7-14         93.99
24-8-1          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-8-2          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-8-3          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-8-4          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-8-5          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-8-6          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-8-7          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-8-8          Ch. 74, Schd. IV
24-10-1         73.25
24-10-2         73.26
24-10-3         73.27
24-10-4         73.28
24-10-5         73.29
24-10-6         73.30
24-10-7         73.31
Ch. 24, Schd. A Ch. 74, Schd. I
Ch. 24, Schd. B Ch. 74, Schd. II
Ch. 24, Schd. C Ch. 74, Schd. III
Ch. 24, Schd. E Ch. 75, Schd. I
Ch. 24, Schd. G Ch. 75, Schd. II
Ch. 24, Schd. H Ch. 75, Schd. III
Ch. 24, Schd. Z Ch. 75, Schd. IV
25-1-1          91.001
25-1-2          91.002
25-1-3          91.003
25-1-4          91.004
25-1-5          91.005
25-1-6          91.006
25-1-7          91.007
25-1-8          91.008
25-2-1          91.020
25-2-2          91.021
25-2-3          91.022
25-2-4          91.023
25-2-5          91.024
25-2-6          91.025
25-2-7          91.025
25-2-8          91.026
25-3-1          91.040
25-3-2          91.041
25-3-3          91.042
25-3-4          91.043
25-3-5          91.044
25-3-6          91.045
25-3-7          91.046
25-3-8          91.047
25-4-1          91.060
25-4-2          91.061
25-4-3          91.062
25-5-1          150.01
25-5-2          150.02
25-5-3          150.03
25-5-4          150.04
25-5-5          150.05
25-5-6          150.06
25-5-7          150.07
25-5-8          150.08
27-1-1          130.01
27-1-2          130.02
27-2-1          130.03
27-2-2          130.04
27-2-3          91.075
27-2-4          91.076
27-2-5          130.05
27-2-6          130.06
27-2-7          130.07
27-2-8          116.01
27-2-9          116.02
27-2-10         116.03
27-2-11         130.08
27-2-12         130.09
27-2-13         130.10
27-2-14         130.11
27-2-15         130.12
27-2-16         130.13
27-2-17         130.14
27-2-18         132.055
27-2-19         130.15
27-2-20         132.040
27-2-21         132.041
27-2-22         130.16
27-2-23         132.042
27-2-24         131.01
27-2-25         131.02
27-2-27         131.40
27-2-28         133.15
27-2-29         133.16
27-2-30         131.41;
                131.42
27-2-31         131.03
27-2-32         130.17
27-2-33         95.99
27-3-1          131.04
27-3-2          131.05
27-3-3          131.06
27-3-4          131.07
27-3-5          131.08
27-3-6          131.09
27-3-7          131.10
27-4-1          132.001
27-4-2          132.002
27-4-3          132.003
27-4-4          91.077—
                91.079
27-4-5          132.004
27-4-6          132.005
27-4-7          132.006
27-4-8          132.007
27-4-9          132.008
27-4-10         132.009
27-4-11         132.010
27-4-12         132.011
27-4-13         131.11
27-4-14         132.043
27-4-15         132.012
27-4-16         132.056
27-5-1          131.25
27-5-2          131.26
27-5-3          131.27
27-5-4          131.28
27-5-5          131.29
27-5-6          131.30
27-5-7          131.31
27-5-8          131.32
27-5-9          131.33
27-5-10         131.34
27-5-11         131.35
27-5-12         131.36
27-5-13         131.37
27-5-14         131.38
27-5-15         131.39
27-6-1          131.55
27-6-2          131.56
27-7-1          133.01
27-7-2          133.02
27-8-1          132.025
27-8-2          132.026
27-8-3          132.027
27-9-1          95.01
27-9-2          95.02
27-9-3          95.15
27-10-1         95.16
27-10-2         95.17
27-10-4         95.18
27-10-5         95.19
27-10-6         95.20
27-10-7         95.21
27-11-1         132.070
27-11-2         132.071
27-11-3         132.072
28-1-1          92.001
28-1-2          92.002
28-1-3          92.003
28-1-4          92.004
28-1-5          92.005
28-1-6          92.006
28-1-7          92.007
28-1-8          92.008
28-1-9          92.009
28-1-10         92.010
28-1-11         92.011
28-2-1          92.025
28-2-2          92.026
28-2-3          92.027
28-2-4          92.028
28-2-5          92.029
28-2-6          92.030
28-2-7          92.031
28-2-8          92.032
28-2-9          92.033
28-2-10         92.034
28-3-1          92.045
28-3-2          92.046
28-3-3          92.047
28-3-4          92.048
28-4-1          92.060
28-4-2          92.061
28-4-3          92.062
28-4-4          92.063
28-4-5          92.064
28-4-6          92.065
28-4-7          92.066
28-4-8          92.068
28-4-9          92.069
28-4-10         92.069
28-4-11         92.070
28-4-12         92.071
28-4-13         92.073
28-4-14         92.073
28-4-15         92.074
28-4-16         92.075
30-1-1          37.01
30-1-2          37.02
30-1-3          37.03
30-1-4          37.04
30-1-5          37.05
30-1-6          37.06
30-2-1          34.01
30-2-2          34.02
30-2-3          34.03
30-2-4          34.04
30-2-5          34.05
30-2-6          34.06
30-2-7          34.07
30-2-8          34.08
30-2-9          34.09
30-2-10         34.10
30-2-11         34.11
30-2-12         34.12
30-2-13         34.13
30-2-14         34.14
30-2-15         34.15
30-2-16         34.16
30-2-17         34.17
30-2-18         34.18
30-2-19         34.19
30-2-20         34.20
30-2-25         34.35
30-2-26         34.35
30-2-27         34.35
30-2-28         34.35
30-2-29         34.35
30-2-30         34.35
30-2-31         34.35
30-2-32         34.35
30-2-33         34.35
30-2-35         34.36
30-2-36         34.37
30-2-38         34.38
30-2-39         34.35
30-2-40         34.35
30-2-41         34.35
30-2-42         34.35
30-2-43         34.35
30-2-45         34.35
30-2-46         34.35
30-2-47         34.35
30-2-48         34.35
33-1-1          154.001
33-1-2          154.002
33-2-1          154.003
33-2-2          154.004
33-2-3          154.030
33-2-4          154.005
33-2-5          154.006
33-2-6          154.007
33-2-7          154.031
33-2-8          154.032
33-2-9          154.008
33-2-10         154.009
33-2-11         154.010
33-2-12         154.011
33-2-13         154.012
33-2-14         154.013
33-2-15         154.014
33-2-16         154.033
33-2-17         154.015
33-2-18         154.016
33-2-19         154.017
33-3-1          156.01
33-3-2          156.02
33-3-3          156.03
33-3-4          156.04
33-3-5          156.05
33-3-6          156.06
33-3-7          156.07
33-3-8          156.08
33-4-1          155.01
33-4-2          155.02
33-4-3          155.03
33-4-4          155.04
33-4-5          155.05
33-4-6          155.20
33-4-7          155.21
33-4-8          155.22
33-4-9          155.23
33-4-10         155.24
33-4-11         155.25
33-4-12         155.26
33-4-13         155.27
33-4-14         155.28
33-4-15         155.29
33-4-16         155.30
33-4-17         155.31
33-4-18         155.32
33-4-19         155.33
33-4-20         155.34
33-4-21         155.35
33-4-22         155.36
33-4-23         155.37
33-4-24         155.38
33-4-25         155.39
33-4-26         155.40
33-4-27         155.41
33-4-28         155.42
33-4-29         155.06
33-4-30         155.07
33-4-31         155.08
33-5-1          154.045
33-5-2          154.046
33-5-3          154.047
33-6-1          154.060
33-6-2          154.061
33-6-3          154.062
33-6-4          154.063
33-6-5          154.064
33-6-6          154.065
33-6-7          154.066
33-6-8          154.067
33-7-1          154.080
33-7-3          154.081
33-7-4          154.082
33-7-5          154.083
33-7-6          154.084
33-8-1          154.100
33-8-2          154.101
33-8-3          154.102
33-8-4          154.103
33-9-1          150.20
33-9-2          150.21
33-9-3          150.22
33-9-4          150.23
33-9-5          150.24
33-9-6          150.25
33-9-7          150.26
33-9-8          150.27
33-9-9          150.28
33-9-10         150.29
33-9-11         150.30
33-9-12         150.31
33-9-13         150.32
33-9-14         150.33
33-9-15         150.34
33-9-16         150.35
33-9-17         150.36
33-9-18         150.37
33-9-19         150.38
33-9-20         150.39
33-9-21         150.40
33-9-22         150.41
33-10-1         152.001
33-10-2         152.002
33-10-3         152.003
33-10-4         152.025—
                152.030
33-10-5         152.031
33-10-6         152.032
33-10-7         152.033
33-10-8         152.045—
                152.050
33-10-9         152.004
33-10-10        152.065—
                152.072
33-10-11        152.034
33-10-12        152.005
33-10-13        152.006
33-10-14        152.007
33-10-15        152.085—
                152.091
33-10-16        152.105—
                152.109
33-10-17        156.40—
                156.42
33-10-18        152.008
33-10-19        152.009
33-10-20        152.010
33-10-21        152.011
33-10-22        152.999
33-10-23        152.012
Ch. 34-2        158.007
34-3-1          158.020
34-3-2          158.021
34-3-3          158.022
34-3-4          158.023
34-3-5          158.024
34-3-6          158.025
34-3-8          158.040
34-3-9          158.041
34-3-10         158.042
34-3-11         158.043
34-3-13         158.055
34-3-14         158.056
34-3-15         158.057
34-3-16         158.058
34-3-17         158.059
34-3-18         158.060
34-3-19         158.061
34-3-22         158.075
34-3-23         158.076
34-3-24         158.077
34-3-25         158.078
34-3-26         158.079
34-3-27         158.080
34-3-28         158.081
34-3-35         158.082
34-3-36         158.082
34-3-37         158.083
34-4-1          158.095
34-4-2          158.096
34-4-3          158.097
34-4-4          158.098
34-4-5          158.099
34-4-6          158.100
34-4-7          158.101
34-5-1          158.115
34-5-2          158.116
34-5-4          158.117
34-5-5          158.118
34-5-6          158.119
34-5-7          158.130
34-5-8          158.131
34-5-9          158.132
34-5-10         158.133
34-5-11         158.134
34-5-13         158.136
34-5-14         158.137
34-5-15         158.138
34-5-16         158.139
34-5-20         158.150
34-5-21         158.151
34-5-22         158.152
34-5-25         158.153
34-5-26         158.153
34-5-27         158.153
34-5-29         158.154
34-5-30         158.154
34-5-32         158.155
34-5-33         158.155
34-5-35         158.156
34-5-37         158.170
34-5-38         158.171
34-5-39         158.172
34-5-40         158.173
34-5-42         158.174
34-5-43         158.175
34-5-45         158.176
34-5-46         158.177
34-5-47         158.178
34-5-49         158.190
34-5-50         158.191
34-5-52         158.192
34-5-53         158.193
34-5-54         158.194
34-5-55         158.195
34-5-56         158.196
34-5-57         158.197
34-5-58         158.198
34-5-60         158.210
34-5-61         158.211
34-5-62         158.212
34-5-63         158.213
34-5-65         158.008
34-5-66         158.008
34-5-68         158.008
34-5-69         158.008
34-5-70         158.008
34-5-72         158.999
34-5-73         158.999
34-5-74         158.999
36-1-1          36.001
36-1-2          36.002
36-1-3          36.003
36-1-4          36.004
36-1-5          36.005
36-1-6          36.006
36-1-7          36.007
36-1-8          36.008
36-1-9          36.009
36-1-10         36.010
36-1-11         36.011
36-1-12         36.012
36-1-13         36.013
36-2-1          36.025
36-2-2          36.026
36-2-3          36.027
36-2-4          36.028
36-2-5          36.029
36-2-6          36.030
36-3-1          36.045
36-3-2          36.046
36-3-3          36.047
36-3-4          36.048
36-3-5          36.049
36-3-6          36.050
36-3-7          36.999
36-5-1          36.085
36-5-2          36.086
36-5-3          36.087
36-5-4          36.088
36-5-5          36.089
36-5-6          36.090
36-5-7          36.091
36-5-8          36.092
36-5-9          36.093
36-5-10         36.094
36-5-11         36.095
36-5-13         36.096
36-5-14         36.097;
                36.098
36-5-15         36.099
36-5-16         36.100
36-5-17         36.101
36-5-18         36.102
37-1-1          156.20
37-1-2          156.21
37-1-3          156.22
37-1-4          156.23
37-1-5          156.24
37-1-6          156.25
37-1-7          156.26
37-1-8          156.27
37-1-9          156.28
37-1-10         156.99
38-1-1          50.001
38-1-2          50.002
38-1-3          50.003
38-1-4          50.004
38-2-1          50.015—
                50.021
38-2-2          50.035
38-2-3          50.036
38-2-4          50.037
38-2-5          50.038
38-2-6          50.039
38-2-7          50.040
38-3-1          51.001
38-3-2          51.002
38-3-3          51.003
38-3-4          51.004
38-3-5          51.005
38-3-6          51.006
38-3-7          51.007
38-3-8          51.008
38-3-9          51.009
38-3-10         51.010
38-3-11         51.011
38-3-12         51.012
38-3-13         51.013
38-3-14         51.014
38-3-15         51.015
38-3-16         51.016
38-3-17         51.017
38-3-18         51.018
38-3-19         51.019
38-3-20         51.020
38-3-21         51.021
38-3-22         51.022
38-3-23         51.035
38-3-24         51.036
38-3-25         51.037
38-3-26         51.038
38-3-27         51.039
38-3-28         51.040
38-3-31         51.055
38-3-32         51.056
38-3-33         51.057
38-3-34         51.058
38-3-35         51.059
38-3-36         51.060
38-3-37         51.061
38-3-38         51.062
38-3-39         51.063
38-3-40         51.064
38-3-41         51.065
38-3-42         51.066
38-3-43         51.999
38-3-53         51.080
38-3-54         51.081
38-3-55         51.082
38-3-56         51.083
38-3-57         51.084
38-3-58         51.023
38-3-59         51.999
38-3-60         51.023
38-4-1          50.055
38-4-2          50.056
38-4-3          50.057
38-4-4          50.058
38-4-5          50.059
38-4-6          50.060
38-4-10         50.075
38-4-11         50.076
38-4-12         50.077
38-4-13         50.078
38-4-14         50.079
34-4-31         50.090
34-4-32         50.091
34-4-33         50.092
34-4-34         50.093
34-4-35         50.094
34-4-36         50.095
34-4-37         50.096
38-5-1          52.001
38-5-4          52.015
38-5-5          52.016
38-5-6          52.017
38-5-7          52.018
38-5-10         52.030
38-5-11         52.031
38-5-12         52.032
38-5-13         52.033
38-5-14         52.034
38-5-15         52.035
38-5-16         52.036
38-5-17         52.037
38-5-21         52.055
38-5-22         52.056
38-5-23         52.057
38-5-24         52.058
38-5-25         52.059
38-5-26         52.060
38-5-27         52.061
38-5-28         52.062
38-5-29         52.063
38-5-30         52.064
38-5-31         52.065
38-5-32         52.066
38-5-33         52.067
38-5-34         52.068
38-5-35         52.069
38-5-36         52.070
38-5-37         52.071
38-5-38         52.072
38-5-42         52.085
38-5-43         52.086
38-5-44         52.087
38-5-45         52.088
38-5-46         52.089
38-5-49         52.100
38-5-50         52.101
38-5-51         52.102
38-5-52         52.103
38-5-53         52.104
38-5-54         52.105
38-5-55         52.106
38-5-56         52.107
38-5-57         52.108
38-5-58         52.109
38-5-59         52.110
38-5-65         52.125
38-5-66         52.126
38-5-67         52.127
38-5-68         52.128
38-5-71         52.999
38-5-72         52.999
38-5-73         52.999
40-1-1          159.001
40-1-2          159.002
40-1-3          159.003
40-1-4          159.004
40-1-5          159.005
Ch. 40-2        159.006
40-3-1          159.020
40-3-2          159.021
40-3-3          159.022
40-3-4          159.023
40-3-5          159.024
40-3-6          159.025
40-3-7          159.026
40-3-8          159.027
40-3-9          159.028
40-3-10         159.029
40-3-11         159.030
40-3-12         159.031
40-3-13         159.032
40-3-14         159.033
40-3-15         159.034
40-3-16         159.035
40-3-17         159.036
40-3-20         159.050
40-3-21         159.051
40-3-22         159.052
40-3-23         159.053
40-3-24         159.054
40-3-25         159.055
40-3-26         159.056
40-3-27         159.057
40-3-28         159.058
40-3-29         159.059
40-3-30         159.060
40-3-31         159.061
40-3-34         159.007
40-4-1          159.075
40-4-2          159.076
40-4-3          159.077
40-4-4          159.078
40-4-5          159.079
40-4-7          159.090
40-4-8          159.091
40-4-9          159.092
40-4-10         159.093
40-4-11         159.094
40-4-12         159.105
40-4-13         159.106
40-4-14         159.107
40-4-15         159.108
40-4-16         159.109
40-4-21         159.120
40-4-22         159.121
40-4-23         159.122
40-4-24         159.123
40-4-25         159.124
40-4-26         159.135
40-4-27         159.136
40-4-28         159.137
40-4-29         159.138
40-4-32         159.150
40-4-33         159.151
40-4-34         159.152
40-4-35         159.153
40-4-36         159.154
40-4-37         159.155
40-4-40         159.170
40-4-41         159.171
40-4-42         159.172
40-4-43         159.173
40-4-44         159.185
40-4-45         159.186
40-4-46         159.187
40-4-47         159.188
40-4-48         159.189
40-4-52         159.200
40-4-53         159.201
40-4-54         159.202
40-4-55         159.203
40-4-56         159.204
40-5-1          159.215
40-5-2          159.216
40-5-3          159.217
40-5-3.1        159.218
40-5-3.2        159.219
40-5-3.3        159.220
40-5-3.4        159.221
40-5-3.5        159.222
40-5-3.6        159.223
40-5-4          159.224
40-5-5          159.225
40-5-6          159.226
40-5-7          159.227
40-6-1          153.01
40-6-2          153.02
40-6-2.1        153.03
40-6-2.2        153.04
40-6-3          153.05
40-6-4          153.06
40-6-5          153.07
40-6-6          153.08
40-6-7          153.09
40-6-8          153.10
40-6-9          153.11
40-6-10         153.12
40-6-10.1       153.25
40-6-10.2       153.26
40-6-10.3       153.27
40-6-10.4       153.28
40-6-10.5       153.29
40-6-10.6       153.30
40-6-11         153.13
40-7-1          159.240
40-7-3          159.241
40-7-4          159.242
40-7-5          159.243
40-7-6          159.244
40-7-7          159.245
40-7-8          159.246
40-7-9          159.247
40-7-10         159.248
40-7-11         159.249
40-8-1          159.260
40-8-2          159.261
40-8-2.1        159.262
40-8-3          159.263
40-8-4          159.264
40-8-5          159.265
40-8-6          159.266
40-9-1          159.280
40-9-2          159.281
40-9-2.1        159.282
40-9-2.2        159.283
40-9-2.3        159.284
40-9-3          159.285
40-9-4          159.286
40-9-4.1        159.287
40-9-4.2        159.288
40-9-4.3        159.289
40-9-5          159.290
40-9-6          159.291
40-9-7          159.292
40-9-8          159.999
40-10-1         159.305
40-10-2         159.306
40-10-3         159.307
40-10-4         159.308
40-10-5         159.309
40-10-6         159.310
40-10-7         159.311
40-10-8         159.312
40-10-9         159.313
40-10-11        159.325
40-10-12        159.326
40-10-13        159.327
40-10-14        159.328
40-10-15        159.329
40-10-18        159.340
40-10-19        159.341
40-10-20        159.342
40-10-21        159.343
40-10-22        159.344
40-10-24        159.355
40-10-25        159.356
40-10-26        159.357
40-10-27        159.358
40-10-28        159.359
40-10-30        159.370
40-10-31        159.371
40-10-32        159.372
40-10-33        159.373
40-10-34        159.374
                
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
13-594   8-14-2013   156.09
13-598   8-14-2013   30.051
14-601   3-12-2014   TSO Table I
14-602   3-12-2014   TSO Table I
16-611   5-12-2016   150.09
16-612   7-14-2016   51.095—
                     51.099
17-616   1-12-2017   33.01
17-617   1-12-2017   33.01
17-618   2-9-2017    30.013
18-623   1-11-2018   115.09
18-624   4-12-2018   50.022—
                     50.024
18-626   6-14-2018   114.01;
                     TSO Table I
                     117.01—
18-627   7-24-2018   117.05;
                     117.15—
                     117.22
19-630   3-14-2019   50.078
19-631   3-14-2019   50.079
2019-637 10-12-2019  38.01
20-638   1-9-2020    33.01
20-639   6-11-2020   111.082
21-644   2-11-2021   111.020
21-650   5-25-2021   33.01
                     30.004;
                     30.016;
                     30.051;
                     30.060;
                     31.026;
                     31.034;
                     31.053;
                     31.062;
                     31.075;
                     33.01;
                     34.15;
                     36.116;
                     36.136;
                     36.137;
                     36.999;
                     50.003;
                     50.004;
                     50.022;
                     51.039;
                     51.063;
                     52.057,
                     73.01;
                     90.119,
                     90.121,
                     90.999;
                     92.005—
                     92.007;
                     92.060;
                     92.068;
                     94.01—
                     94.03;
21-651   9-9-2021    94.05;
                     94.06;
                     94.08;
                     94.11;
                     94.29,
                     95.19;
                     110.05;
                     110.57;
                     114.01;
                     132.040;
                     133.16;
                     152.006;
                     152.027;
                     152.030;
                     152.031;
                     152.105,
                     153.30,
                     154.006;
                     154.009—
                     154.011;
                     154.030;
                     154.045—
                     154.047;
                     154.061,
                     154.062;
                     154.064—
                     154.066;
                     154.080;
                     154.082;
                     155.03;
                     158.136;
                     158.137;
                     158.213
21-654   12-9-2021   Adopting Ordinance
23-659   7-13-2023   TSO Table I
23-660   7-25-2023   111.040
23-662   7-25-2023   30.054
23-663   8-10-2023   31.005
23-664   11-9-2023   32.01,
                     33.01
24-668   5-9-2024    94.01,
                     94.42
                    
 
 
