CITY CODE
of
CARTHAGE
ILLINOIS
2018
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-1, passed 4-29-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com 
PREFACE
This code of the City of Carthage, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2025-1, passed April 29, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-15
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CARTHAGE, IL CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and City council of the City of Carthage, IL, as
follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Carthage, IL prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the City,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 11 day of December, 2018.
APPROVED this 11 day of December, 2018.
/s/      
   Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/      
   City Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES: 5
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 1
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Official City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Officers And Employees   5
Mayor   6
City Council   7
City Clerk   8
City Treasurer   9
City Attorney   10
Chief Of Police   11
City Collector   12
Superintendent Of Streets   13
City Taxes   14
City Budget Provisions   15
Depositories   16
Wards   17
Corporate Seal   18
Locally Imposed And Administered Tax Rights And Responsibility   19
Ordinance Publication Procedures   20
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-5: Code Alteration
1-1-6: Numbering Ordinances
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Council this Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Carthage. This Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Carthage City Code, and it is
hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the City Attorney, acting for the
said City Council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (1979 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1979 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code
within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. (1979 Code)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this Code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this Code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1979 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the Office of the City Clerk.
Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the Office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City Council.
(1979 Code)
1-1-6: NUMBERING ORDINANCES:
Ordinances of the City shall be numbered on an annual basis corresponding to
the fiscal year of City, and subsequent ordinances in said fiscal year shall be
consecutively numbered. (Ord. 818, 4-30-1968)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances. (1979 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1979 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code. (1979 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this Code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this Code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto. (1979 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: The word "agent" as used in this Code shall mean a person acting on
behalf of another.
   CITY: The word "City" as used in this Code shall mean the City of Carthage,
County of Hancock, State of Illinois.
   CODE: The word "Code" unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this
City Code.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
City of Carthage".
   FEE: The word "fee" as used in this Code shall mean a sum of money charged
by the City for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall commence on May 1 and end on
April 30 of the succeeding year.
   KNOWINGLY: The word "knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts
exist which brings the act or omission within the provisions of this Code. It
does not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LICENSE: The word "license" as used in this Code shall mean the permission
granted for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR: The word "misdemeanor" shall mean any offense deemed a
violation of the provisions of this Code which is a lesser offense than a
felony as defined by State law.
   NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
   NUISANCE: The word "nuisance" shall mean anything offensive or obnoxious to
the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing
repugnant to, or creating a hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the
property of another person or to the community.
   OCCUPANT: The word "occupant" applied to a building or land shall include
any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
   OFFENSE: The word "offense" shall mean any act forbidden by any provision of
this Code or the omission of any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Carthage".
   OPERATOR: The word "operator" as used in this Code shall mean the person who
is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
   OWNER: The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
   PERSON: The word "person" shall mean any natural individual, firm, trust,
partnership, association or corporation in his or its own capacity or as
administrator, conservator, executor, trustee, receiver or other representative
appointed by the court. Whenever the word "person" is used in any section of
this Code prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or
associations, the word shall include the partners or members thereof, and such
word as applied to corporations shall include the officers, agents or employees
thereof who are responsible for any violation of said section.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: The term "personal property" shall include every
description of money, goods, chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action
and all written instruments by which any pecuniary obligation, right or title
to property is created, acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated,
discharged or diminished and every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: The word "retailer" as used in this Code, unless otherwise
specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The term "right-of-way" shall mean the privilege of the
immediate use of the roadway or other property.
   STREET: The word "street" shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: The word "tenant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
   WHOLESALER: The word "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (Ord. 8, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections,
including catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-1-1: Issuance Of Citations In Certain Violation Cases
1-4-2: License
1-4-3: Application
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code shall be
punished by the imposition of a fine of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), for each offense.
(Ord. 2008-15, 4-14-2009; amd. 2018 Code)
This section shall not apply to any violation of any ordinance of the City of
Carthage for which the fine is currently or hereafter established at a greater
amount. (Ord. 2008-15, 4-14-2009)
1-4-1-1: ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS IN CERTAIN VIOLATION CASES:
   (A)   Citations: Whenever a police officer of the City of Carthage is
authorized to arrest a person without a warrant because of the violation of any
section or provision of this Code in respect to any of the following sections:
Code Reference Description Fine
Code Reference Description                       Fine
3-2-25         Alcohol, public view              $75.00
3-3-1          Registration required             75.00
5-2-2          Illegal burning                   75.00
6-2-7          Disorderly conduct                75.00
6-2-11         Drunkenness (public intoxication) 75.00
6-2-14         Fighting                          75.00
6-3-3          Dog running at large              75.00
6-3-7          Dog barking                       75.00
7-2-2-1        Foul odors                        75.00
7-2-2-3        Weeds                             75.00
7-3-4          Accumulation of debris            75.00
 
said police officer may, in lieu of filing a formal complaint in court, in the
first instance issue to such alleged violator a citation:
      1.   Advising said person that he has violated a specific ordinance;
      2.   Requesting him/her to make payment in an amount applicable to said
alleged violation and set for above a settlement of said violation claim; and,
      3.   Informing him/her that upon failure to settle, a complaint will be
filed in the Circuit Court of Hancock County charging him/her with such
violation.
   (B)   Settlement: Pursuant to said citation, the person so accused of said
violation may settle and compromise the violation claim in respect to the
violation of this Code by paying to the Municipality the applicable amount(s)
as shown in the schedule set forth as the settlement amount in subsection (A)
of this section with a period to be specified in said citation, not more than
fifteen (15) days from the time said alleged offense was committed.
Said payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions contained in the
citation at the Office of the City Clerk, who shall issue a receipt for the
money so received and promptly remit said amount to the City Treasurer to be
credited to the proper Municipal fund.
   (C)   Final Notice - Penalty: In the event that the person to whom said
citation is issued fails to settle and pay said violation within the time
specified in the citation, a final notice shall be mailed to him/her.
   (D)   Issuance Of Complaint: In the event that the person to whom the
citation is issued fails to settle and pay said violation claim within the time
specified in the final notice, then the police officer is authorized to cause
the citation and a notice to appear to be served upon said alleged violator and
to file the same as a complaint in the Circuit Court of Hancock County and
prosecute the same. The officer, as an alternative, may file a formal complaint
in the Circuit Court in lieu of the citation.
   (E)   Correction Of Complaint: The payment of an amount as a settlement
herein will not excuse the correction of the violation. Proof of correction
must be furnished before settlement is accepted. (Ord. 2018-10, 9-25-2018)
1-4-2: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, any
license previously issued to him by the City may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the City Council. (1979 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the Prosecuting Officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1979 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1979
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Officers; Elected, Appointed
1-5-2: Compensation
1-5-3: Employees' Retirement System
1-5-4: Municipal Retirement Fund
1-5-1: OFFICERS; ELECTED, APPOINTED:
The officers of the City in addition to the Mayor, City Council, City Clerk,
City Treasurer and City Attorney shall consist of a Police Chief, City
Collector, and City Superintendent of Streets.
Unless otherwise stated in this title, officers of the City shall be elected as
provided by law. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
1-5-2: COMPENSATION:
The salaries of all City officers not otherwise specifically provided for in
this Code, shall be established by the City Council. (1979 Code)
1-5-3: EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the City to extend to the
eligible employees and elected executive officials thereof the benefits of the
Federal Old Age and Survivors Insurance System as authorized by the Federal
Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In pursuance of said policy, and
for that purpose, the Mayor of the City shall take such action as may be
required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 571, 12-7-
1953; amd. Ord. 592, 6-6-1955)
The Mayor of the City is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement
with the State Employees' Retirement System of the State of Illinois (Social
Security Unit) to secure coverage of eligible employees as provided in the
first paragraph of this section.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose provided in
this section are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times
as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations, and
shall be paid over to the State agency in such amounts and at such times as are
designated by State laws or regulations.
Employer contributions and administrative expense shall be paid to the State
agency in accordance with applicable State laws and regulations from amounts
appropriated for such purposes.
The City Clerk shall maintain such records and submit such reports as may be
required by applicable State and Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 571, 12-7-
1953)
1-5-4: MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
   (A)   The City of Carthage, Hancock County, Illinois, does hereby elect to
participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, effective January 1,
1986.
   (B)   The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for one thousand (1,000) hours per year.
   (C)   The City Clerk be directed to promptly file a certified copy of this
section with the Board of Trustees of the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 85-7, 9-24-1985)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Executive Officer; Qualifications; Term Of Office
1-6-2: Enforce Ordinances; Preside At Meetings; Vote In Case Of Tie
1-6-3: Vacancy
1-6-4: Mayor Pro Tem
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-6: Oath; Bond
1-6-7: Appointments; Filling Vacancies
1-6-8: Supervise Conduct Of Officers
1-6-9: Removals; Report Reasons To Council; Disapproval
1-6-10: Ordinances; Approval; Veto
1-6-11: Sign Commissions; Warrants; Contracts
1-6-12: Licenses; Issuance And Revocation
1-6-13: Other Duties
1-6-1: EXECUTIVE OFFICER; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the City; he shall be a
citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, reside within the City
limits, and shall hold his office for four (4) years, and until his successor
is elected and qualified. (1979 Code)
1-6-2: ENFORCE ORDINANCES; PRESIDE AT MEETINGS; VOTE IN CASE OF TIE:
The Mayor shall devote so much of his time to the duties of this office as a
faithful and efficient discharge thereof may require; he shall take care that
all the ordinances of the City are duly enforced, respected and observed; he
shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, but shall not vote except in
case of a tie, when he shall give the deciding vote; he shall preserve order
and decorum; and generally do and perform all acts and things which are
enjoined upon him by the laws of the State of Illinois and the ordinances of
the City. (1979 Code)
1-6-3: VACANCY:
Whenever any vacancy shall happen in the Office of Mayor, on account of death,
resignation, removal from the limits of the City, or for any other cause, when
the unexpired term shall be one year or over from the date of such vacancy, it
shall be filled by an election, and the Clerk shall give notice of such
election as required by the laws and ordinances governing special elections; if
such vacancy is less than one year, the City Council shall elect one of its
members to act as Acting Mayor, who shall possess all the rights and powers of
the Mayor until the next annual election, and until his successor is elected
and qualified. (1979 Code)
1-6-4: MAYOR PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence from the City, or disability of the Mayor, the City
Council shall elect one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem, who during such
absence or disability shall possess all the powers of the Mayor. (1979 Code)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
The Mayor of the City shall receive as compensation for his services the sum of
twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) per year payable in monthly installments
from the General Fund of the City, plus one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for serving as Liquor Commissioner and one hundred dollars
($100.00) per month for expenses and travel, such compensation for the Mayor to
become effective May 1, 2021. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-17-2000; amd. Ord. 2020-2, 4-
28-2020; Ord. 2020-9, 10-27-2020)
1-6-6: OATH; BOND:
The Mayor, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath
prescribed for other City officers, and shall execute a bond to said City in
the penal sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of the office. (1979 Code)
1-6-7: APPOINTMENTS; FILLING VACANCIES:
The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City
Council, all officers of the City, whose appointments are not otherwise
provided for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any office, which by
law or ordinance he is empowered and required to fill, he shall at the next
regular meeting of the City Council occurring not less than ten (10) days after
such vacancy, communicate to the City Council the name of his appointee to such
office, and pending the concurrence of the Council in such appointment, he may
designate some suitable person to discharge the functions of such office. (1979
Code)
1-6-8: SUPERVISE CONDUCT OF OFFICERS:
The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the City and see that
they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their respective
offices; he shall inquire into all reasonable complaints made against them and
cause all their neglects or violations of duty to be promptly corrected; and he
shall, in case he becomes satisfied that any officer wilfully neglects or
violates his duty, cause such officer to be prosecuted and punished; and he
shall from time to time give the Council such information relative to the
affairs of the City as he may deem proper, and recommend for their
consideration any measures that he may deem expedient, tending to the well-
being, security or improvement of the City. (1979 Code)
1-6-9: REMOVALS; REPORT REASONS TO COUNCIL; DISAPPROVAL:
The Mayor shall have power to remove any officer, appointed by him, on any
formal charge whenever he shall be of the opinion that the interests of the
City demand such removal but he shall report the reasons of such removal to the
City Council at the next regular meeting thereof to be held not less than five
(5) days after such removal; and if the Mayor shall fail or refuse to file with
the City Clerk a statement of the reasons for such removal, or if the City
Council, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its members authorized by law to be
elected, by ayes and nays, to be entered upon its records, disapproves of such
removal, such officer shall thereupon become restored to the office from which
he was so removed; but he shall give new bonds and take a new oath of office.
No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense. (1979 Code)
1-6-10: ORDINANCES; APPROVAL; VETO:
The Mayor shall carefully inspect all ordinances passed by the City Council and
affix his official signature to such as he may approve, and return them to the
City Clerk within ten (10) days after their passage, and all ordinances passed
as aforesaid, which do not meet his approval, he shall return to the Council
with his objections thereto in writing at the next regular meeting of the
Council, occurring not less than five (5) days after the passage thereof. Such
veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations contained in any
ordinance, or to the entire ordinance, and in case the veto only extends to a
part of such ordinance the residue thereof shall take effect and be in force;
but in case the Mayor shall fail to return any ordinance with his objections
thereto, by the time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have approved such
ordinance, and the same shall take effect accordingly. (1979 Code)
1-6-11: SIGN COMMISSIONS; WARRANTS; CONTRACTS:
The Mayor shall sign all commissions and warrants granted, issued or drawn by
the order of the City Council, or authorized by the ordinances of said City; in
all contracts where the City is a party, he shall sign the same on behalf of
the City and it shall be his special duty to see that the other contracting
party faithfully complies with the contract, and on all suits wherein the City
is a party, it shall be the duty of the Mayor to advise with the City Attorney
in prosecuting or defending the same, as the case may be. (1979 Code)
1-6-12: LICENSES; ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION:
The Mayor shall grant licenses, for the purposes authorized by any ordinance of
the City, to such persons duly qualified according to ordinance, as he may deem
proper, unless the City Council shall otherwise provide, and may revoke the
same at pleasure; provided, that licenses for the operation of saloons or
dramshops shall first be authorized by the City Council. (1979 Code)
1-6-13: OTHER DUTIES:
In addition to the above and foregoing, the Mayor shall perform all such duties
as may be prescribed by law or by the City ordinances and shall take care that
the laws and ordinances of the said City are enforced. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: The Council; How Composed; Filling Vacancy
1-7-2: Aldermen; Term Of Office
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-4: Qualifications Of Aldermen
1-7-5: Meetings
1-7-6: Standing Committees
1-7-7: Duties Of Standing Committees
1-7-8: Quorum
1-7-9: When Yeas And Nays Required; Majority Required
1-7-10: Passing Over Veto
1-7-11: No Vote To Be Reconsidered At Special Meeting
1-7-12: Attaching Documents To Reports
1-7-13: Reports Of Committees Deferred
1-7-14: Municipal Year
1-7-15: Fiscal Year
1-7-16: Annual Appropriation Ordinance
1-7-17: No Further Expenditure; Emergency; Borrowing Money
1-7-18: Contracting Liabilities Limited
1-7-19: Annual Tax Levy
1-7-20: Manner Of Collecting Taxes
1-7-21: Collector To Pay Treasurer
1-7-22: Special Tax Levy
1-7-23: Uniformity Of Taxation
1-7-1: THE COUNCIL; HOW COMPOSED; FILLING VACANCY:
The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and two (2) Aldermen from each
ward; it shall be the judge of the election and qualification of its own
members. A vacancy in the Office of Alderman shall exist by reason of
resignation, failure to elect or qualify, death of the person, or physical or
mental disability, conviction of a disqualifying crime, abandonment of office,
or removal of office, or of residence of the ward. If a vacancy occurs in the
Office of Alderman in any such manner or otherwise the vacancy may be filled at
the next succeeding general election for Alderman at which time the vacancy
shall be filled for the unexpired balance of the term. A vacancy for Alderman
shall not be filled by special election in compliance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-4-14. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
may appoint a person to serve as Alderman in the vacancy until the next general
election, as provided in this section and until the person elected qualifies.
(1979 Code)
1-7-2: ALDERMEN; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Aldermen of the City shall hold their office for the term of four (4)
years, and until their successors are elected and qualified. (1979 Code)
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
The various Aldermen of the City shall receive as compensation for their
services the sum of sixty dollars ($60.00) per Council meeting and forty five
dollars ($45.00) per committee meeting; Committee Chairmen shall receive fifty
dollars ($50.00) per committee meeting. Payment shall be made for any regularly
scheduled or special Council meeting missed by an Alderman because of absence
due to sickness, injury to the Alderman, or death in the family or for good
cause shown and approved by the remainder of the Council. To receive
compensation for the committee meetings, the various Aldermen must be
physically present at the committee meeting for at least fifty percent (50%) of
its duration. Eligibility for the various Aldermen to receive compensation for
such committee meeting shall be determined by the respective Committee
Chairmen, such compensation to become effective May 1, 2019. (Ord. 2000-10, 10-
17-2000; amd. Ord. 2018-13, 10-9-2018)
1-7-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF ALDERMEN:
No person shall be eligible to the Office of Alderman unless he is a qualified
elector, and resides within the ward for which he was elected, nor shall he be
eligible if he is in arrears in the payment of any tax or other liability due
to the City; nor shall he be directly or indirectly interested in any contract
whatever to which the City is a party; nor shall he be eligible if he has been
convicted of malfeasance, bribery or corrupt practices or crime; nor shall he
be eligible to any office the salary of which is payable out of the City
Treasury, if at the time of his appointment he is a member of the City Council;
nor shall any member of the City Council at the time hold any other office
under the City government; nor shall he be, either directly or indirectly,
individually, or as a member of a firm, engaged in any business transaction
(other than official) with the City, through its Mayor or any of its authorized
boards, agents or attorney, where any money is to be paid, directly or
indirectly, out of the City Treasury to such member or firm or firms. (1979
Code)
1-7-5: MEETINGS:
   (A)   Regular Meetings: The regular meeting of the City Council shall be
held the second and fourth Tuesday of each month of the year at the hour of
seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. in the City Council Chamber. Any regular
meeting falling upon a legal holiday shall be held on the next following
secular day at the same hour and place. An additional regular meeting of the
City Council shall be held on April 30 of each year, at the time and place as
other regular meetings hereinabove provided for, and in each of the odd
numbered years the old Council shall adjourn sine die from the regular meeting
and a regular meeting of the new Council shall be held immediately following
the adjournment of the old Council sine die. (Ord. 78-27, 3-1979; amd. Ord. 79-
11, 1-22-1980; 2018 Code)
   (B)   Meetings To Be Public: All meetings of the Council shall be open to
the public, except as provided in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2, in such
cases made and provided.
   (C)   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by
any three (3) members of the Council in writing filed with the Clerk at least
thirty six (36) hours prior to the time specified for such meeting. At least
twenty four (24) hours' written notice of such meeting shall be given by the
Clerk, which notice shall specify the time and purpose of such meeting and
shall be delivered to each member of the Council personally if he can be found
and if he cannot be found, then by leaving a copy of such notice at the home of
such Council member in the presence of an adult member of the family of the
Alderman. The Clerk shall cause an affidavit to be filed in his office prior to
the time fixed for such special meeting. Public notice of any special meeting
or of any rescheduled regular meeting or any reconvened meeting shall be given
at least twenty four (24) hours before such meeting by posting a copy of the
notice of the meeting on the door of the office of the City Hall in the City,
and there shall be supplied copies of the notice of any special rescheduled or
reconvened meeting to any local newspaper of general circulation or any local
radio or television station that has filed an annual request for such notice.
   (D)   Mayor To Preside; Right To Vote: The Mayor shall preside at all
meetings of the City Council. He shall not vote except:
      1.   Where the vote of the Aldermen has resulted in a tie; or
      2.   Where one-half (1/2) of the Aldermen elected have voted in favor of
an ordinance, resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote; or
      3.   Where a vote greater than a majority of the Corporate Authorities is
needed to adopt a resolution.
In each instance specified the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this subsection
shall deprive an acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem from voting in his capacity as
Alderman, but he shall not be entitled to another vote in his capacity as
acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem.
   (E)   Chairman Pro Tem: In the absence of the Mayor, the City Council may
elect a Chairman to act. He shall have only the powers of a presiding officer
and a right to vote in his capacity as Alderman on any ordinance, resolution or
motion.
   (F)   Convening Of Meetings; Lack Of A Quorum: Each meeting of the Council
shall convene at the time appointed for such meeting. The Clerk or someone
appointed to fill his place by the presiding officer shall thereupon
immediately call the roll of members. If no quorum is present, the Council
shall not thereby stand adjourned, but the members present shall be competent
to adjourn or recess the Council by a majority vote. (1979 Code)
1-7-6: STANDING COMMITTEES:
The standing committees of the City are as follows:
   Finance Committee
   Legislative Committee
   Public Property Committee
   Public Safety Committee
   Public Works Committee (1979 Code)
1-7-7: DUTIES OF STANDING COMMITTEES:
It shall be the duty of the standing committees of the City Council to keep a
close watch over the affairs of their respective departments of the City
government; they shall have the general management, control and supervision
over all works and things ordered to be made or done by the Council, in their
respective departments, and they shall make report to the Council of whatever
facts may be deemed of importance. Each committee shall promptly and thoroughly
investigate and report in writing upon all matters referred to it by the
Council, and do and perform such other and further duties as the Council may
from time to time, by ordinance, resolution or motion, prescribe. (1979 Code)
1-7-8: QUORUM:
A majority of the Aldermen elected shall constitute a quorum to do business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time. (1979 Code)
1-7-9: WHEN YEAS AND NAYS REQUIRED; MAJORITY REQUIRED:
The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances, and on all
propositions to create any liability against the City, or for the expenditure
or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases at the request of any
member, which shall be entered on the journal of the proceedings; and the
concurrence of a majority of all the members elected in the City Council shall
be necessary to the passage of any such ordinance or proposition; provided, it
shall require three-fourths (3/4) of all the Aldermen elect to sell any City
property. (1979 Code)
1-7-10: PASSING OVER VETO:
In case the Mayor shall veto any ordinance or any part of an ordinance and
return the same to the Council, together with his objections thereto, the vote
by which the same was passed shall be reconsidered by the Council; and if,
after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the Aldermen elected to the
City Council shall agree by yeas and nays to pass the same, it shall go into
effect, notwithstanding the Mayor may refuse to approve thereof. The vote to
pass the same over the Mayor's veto shall be taken by yeas and nays, and
entered on the journal. (1979 Code)
1-7-11: NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETING:
No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at any special
meeting thereof, unless at such special meeting there be present as large a
number of Aldermen as were present when such vote was taken. (1979 Code)
1-7-12: ATTACHING DOCUMENTS TO REPORTS:
Every committee of the City Council, in reporting upon any subject referred to
it, shall attach to their report all papers or documents in the possession of
the committee relative to the matter so referred. (1979 Code)
1-7-13: REPORTS OF COMMITTEES DEFERRED:
Any report of a committee of the City Council shall be deferred, for final
action thereon, at the next regular meeting of the same after the report is
made, upon the request of any two (2) Aldermen present. (1979 Code)
1-7-14: MUNICIPAL YEAR:
The Municipal year of the City shall commence on the first day of May and end
on the thirtieth day of April in each and every year. (1979 Code)
1-7-15: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the City shall commence on the first day of May in each and
every year. (1979 Code)
1-7-16: ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE:
The City Council of said City shall, within the first quarter of each fiscal
year, pass an ordinance, to be termed the annual appropriation bill, in which
the City Council shall appropriate such sum or sums of money as it may deem
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of said City for the
current fiscal year; and in such ordinance shall specify the objects and
purposes for which such appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated
for each object or purpose. No further appropriations shall be made at any
other time within such fiscal year, unless the proposition to make each
appropriation has been first sanctioned by a majority of the legal voters of
such City, either by a petition signed by them, or at a general or special
election duly called therefor. (1979 Code)
1-7-17: NO FURTHER EXPENDITURE; EMERGENCY; BORROWING MONEY:
Neither the City Council nor any department or officer of said City shall add
to the corporate expenditures in any one year anything over and above the
amount provided for in the annual appropriation bill of that year, except as
herein otherwise specially provided; and no expenditure for an improvement to
be paid for out of the General Fund of the City shall exceed, in any one year,
the amount provided for such improvement in the annual appropriation bill;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council
from ordering, by a two- thirds (2/3) vote, any improvement, the necessity of
which is caused by any casualty or accident happening after such annual
appropriation is made. The City Council may, by a like vote, order the Mayor
and the Committee on Finance to borrow a sufficient amount to provide for the
expense necessary to be incurred in making any improvements, the necessity of
which has arisen as is lost above mentioned, for a space of time not exceeding
the close of the next fiscal year, which sum, and the interest, shall be added
to the amount authorized to be raised in the next general tax levy, and
embraced therein. Should any judgment be obtained against said City, the Mayor
and the Committee on Finance, under the sanction of the City Council, may
borrow a sufficient amount to pay the same, for a space of time not exceeding
the close of the next fiscal year, which sum, and interest shall, in like
manner, be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy
of the next year, and embraced therein. (1979 Code)
1-7-18: CONTRACTING LIABILITIES LIMITED:
No contract shall hereafter be made by the City Council, or any committee or
member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of said City, whether the object of the expenditure shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as herein otherwise expressly
provided. (1979 Code)
1-7-19: ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
The City Council shall annually, on or before the second Tuesday in September
of each year, ascertain the total amount of appropriations for all corporate
purposes legally made, and to be collected from the tax levy of that fiscal
year; and by an ordinance specifying in detail the purposes for which such
appropriations are made, and the sum or amount appropriated for each purpose,
respectively, levy the amount so ascertained upon all the property subject to
taxation within the City as the same is assessed and equalized for State and
County purposes for the current year. A certified copy of such ordinance shall
be filed with the County Clerk of Hancock County, whose duty it shall be to
ascertain the rate percent which, upon the total valuation of all the property
subject to taxation within the City, as the same is assessed and equalized for
State and County purposes, will produce a net amount and not less than the
amount so directed to be levied; and it shall be the duty of said County Clerk
to extend such tax in a separate column upon the book or books of the collector
or collectors of the State and County taxes, within the City; provided, the
aggregate amount levied for any one year, exclusive of the amount levied for
the payment of the bonded indebtedness or interest thereon, and for library
purposes, shall not exceed the rate of two percent (2%) upon the aggregate
valuation of all property within the City subject to taxation therein, as the
same was equalized for State and County taxes for the current year. (1979 Code)
1-7-20: MANNER OF COLLECTING TAXES:
The tax so assessed shall be collected and enforced in the same manner and by
the same officers as State and County taxes, and shall be paid over by the
officers collecting the same to the City Treasurer. (1979 Code)
1-7-21: COLLECTOR TO PAY TREASURER:
It shall be the duty of the officer collecting such tax to settle with and pay
over to the City Treasurer, as often as once every thirty (30) days, when
required by said Treasurer to do so, the amount of tax that he may have
collected, and at the same time shall render to said Treasurer a statement, in
writing, of the amount of tax collected for the City, till the whole tax
collected shall be paid over. (1979 Code)
1-7-22: SPECIAL TAX LEVY:
Whenever the City is required to levy a tax for the payment of any particular
debt, appropriation or liability, the tax for such purpose shall be included in
the total amount assessed by the City Council, and certified to the County
Clerk as aforesaid; but the City Council shall determine, in the ordinance
making such assessment, what proportion of such total amount shall be
applicable to the payment of such particular debt, appropriation or liability
and the City Treasurer shall set apart such proportion of the tax collected and
paid to him for the payment of such particular debt, appropriation or
liability, and shall not disburse the same for any other purpose until such
debt, appropriation or liability shall have been discharged. (1979 Code)
1-7-23: UNIFORMITY OF TAXATION:
All taxes, levied or assessed by the City, except special assessment for local
improvements, shall be uniform upon all taxable property and persons within the
limits of the City, and no property shall be exempt therefrom other than such
property as may be exempt from taxation under the Constitution and general laws
of the State of Illinois. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election, Qualification
1-8-2: Compensation
1-8-3: Bond Required
1-8-4: Records Of Council
1-8-5: General Duties
1-8-6: Duties; Waterworks System
1-8-7: Records To Be Given To Successor
1-8-8: Deputy City Clerk
1-8-1: ELECTION, QUALIFICATION:
The City Clerk shall be elected and shall hold office as provided by law and
the provisions of this Code. He shall be a qualified elector and resident of
the City. (1979 Code)
1-8-2: COMPENSATION:
The City Clerk shall receive as full compensation for his services the sum of
twelve thousand eight hundred dollars ($12,800.00) per year payable in monthly
installments which sum shall be drawn from the General Fund, such compensation
to become effective May 1, 2021.
The salaries will be paid in monthly installments on the last day of each month
of the fiscal year. (Ord. 2000-08, 10-17-2000; amd. Ord. 2020-2, 4-28-2020;
Ord. 2020-9, 10-27-2020)
1-8-3: BOND REQUIRED:
Before entering upon his duties, the City Clerk-Elect shall give bond to the
City with two (2) or more resident sureties, to be approved of by the City
Council, in the sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties as such City Clerk, and
that he will safely keep and pay over all money entrusted to his keeping as
such City Clerk. (1979 Code)
1-8-4: RECORDS OF COUNCIL:
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to attend all meetings of the City
Council, keep a full and correct journal of its proceedings, and of all
ordinances which the Council may ordain. He shall carefully preserve all books,
records and papers which may come into his possession belonging to the City,
and do and perform all duties which may be required of him by ordinance of the
City or by the City Council or Mayor. (1979 Code)
1-8-5: GENERAL DUTIES:
   (A)   The City Clerk shall receive and collect all monies, except taxes, due
or payable to the City whether for fines, water rents, or for any other purpose
whatsoever, and on the first Monday following the date upon which such monies
are received by the City Clerk, he shall pay over all of such monies to the
City Treasurer, who shall thereupon issue to such Clerk a receipt for all
monies so paid to him.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep a full and correct record of all of the
financial transactions of the City and of the waterworks system of the City,
including a record of all monies due and owing the City, by whom and what
claim, account or demand owing, and a record of all sums of money received by
him for the City, the date when received, the amount received, the name of the
party making the payment, and the account to which each payment was credited;
and a record of the dates when such monies were paid over to the City
Treasurer; and a full and complete account with every person using City water.
The City Clerk shall also keep a full and correct record of every order granted
by the City Council, and of the amount thereof, and of the name of the person
or persons for whom issued, and the claim, account or demand for which issued.
   (C)   At the regular monthly meeting of the City Council, or whenever
requested by the Council or the Financial Committee thereof, the City Clerk
shall make a full and correct report of the condition of the City's finances,
and of all monies received by him and of all orders issued by him since making
his last report or during such other period during his term of office as shall
be inquired of. (1979 Code)
1-8-6: DUTIES; WATERWORKS SYSTEM:
At the first Council meeting in May and every four (4) months thereafter, the
City Clerk shall report a full list of the names of all water takers that have
not paid their water rentals up to date. (1979 Code)
1-8-7: RECORDS TO BE GIVEN TO SUCCESSOR:
At the expiration of his term of office the City Clerk shall turn over and
deliver to his successor in office all books, records, papers and other
property belonging to the City over which as City Clerk he is custodian. (1979
Code)
1-8-8: DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
The Deputy City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council, and shall hold his office for the term of one
year only, unless sooner removed. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Election; Qualification
1-9-2: Bond Required
1-9-3: Compensation
1-9-4: Receipt; Disbursement Of City Monies
1-9-5: Monthly Report To Council
1-9-6: Annual Report
1-9-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATION:
The City Treasurer shall be elected and shall hold office as provided by law
and the provisions of this Code. He shall be a qualified elector and resident
of the City. (1979 Code)
1-9-2: BOND REQUIRED:
Before entering upon his duties, the City Treasurer elected shall furnish a
good and sufficient warranty bond to the City, to be approved by the City
Council, in the penal sum of not less than two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00), conditioned that he will well and truly perform all of the
duties of the Office of City Treasurer and he will fully account for all monies
received by him as such Treasurer. (Ord. 92-16, 2-9-1993)
1-9-3: COMPENSATION:
The City Treasurer shall receive the sum of three thousand six hundred dollars
($3,600.00) per year payable in monthly installments which sum shall be drawn
from the General Fund, such compensation to become effective May 1, 2021. (Ord.
2000-07, 10-17-2000; amd. Ord. 2020-2, 4-28-2020; Ord. 2020-9, 10-27-2020)
1-9-4: RECEIPT; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY MONIES:
The City Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the City, collected by
the City Clerk, also the City taxes, and shall keep a full and correct record
of all the financial transactions of the City, including a proper and regular
account of all monies received and disbursed, of whom received and to whom paid
out, for what claim, account or demand received or paid out, and the date of
such receipt or payment.
The City Treasurer shall in no case pay out money except in pursuance of an
order of the City Council countersigned by the City Clerk. (1979 Code)
1-9-5: MONTHLY REPORT TO COUNCIL:
The City Treasurer shall, at the first regular meeting of the City Council in
each month, exhibit to the Council an abstract of his accounts of all monies
received and paid out. (1979 Code)
1-9-6: ANNUAL REPORT:
On the first Monday of September in each year, the City Treasurer shall exhibit
to the City Council, and more often if required, a full and detailed account of
all receipts and expenditures since the date of the last annual report and of
all monies due to the City and of the State of the City's Treasury. The report
herein provided for shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be published
in some newspaper published in Hancock County. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Office Established
1-10-2: Appointment; Term
1-10-3: Duties
1-10-4: Compensation
1-10-5: Extraordinary Or Special Legal Services
1-10-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
The Office of City Attorney is hereby established. (1979 Code)
1-10-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council in accordance with the laws and the Statutes of the
State of Illinois, for a term of one year commencing on the first day in May of
each year. (1979 Code)
1-10-3: DUTIES:
The duties of the City Attorney shall be to attend the regular meetings and
special meetings of the City Council and to give such legal advice to the City
or to any Alderman, the Mayor or any other City official that shall be
requested of him including a written opinion on appropriate legal matters as
they may arise, to prepare all ordinances and resolutions that may be required
or desired and to be available for consultation to the Mayor, any Alderman or
any other City official. (1979 Code)
1-10-4: COMPENSATION:
Effective April 29, 2025, the City Attorney shall receive the sum of one
thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00) per month compensation. In addition,
the City Attorney shall be compensated at the rate of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per hour for all litigation.
Such salary shall be paid in monthly installments on the last day of each month
in the fiscal year. Litigation costs shall be paid from time to time as billed
by the City Attorney. (Ord. 2018-1, 4-24-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-1, 4-30-2019;
Ord. 2020-1, 4-28-2020; Ord. 2021-1, 4-27-2021; Ord. 2024-1, 4-30-2024; Ord.
2025- 1, 4-29-2025)
1-10-5: EXTRAORDINARY OR SPECIAL LEGAL SERVICES:
All extraordinary or special legal services rendered, including general
obligation bond issues, revenue bond issues, litigation or appearance in courts
of record, appearances before Federal or State Commissions, regulatory bodies
or administrative tribunals, special assessment work, zoning and legal work in
connection with Federal or State projects including feasibility studies shall
be at reasonable compensation as may be agreed upon between the City Council
and the City Attorney. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CHIEF OF POLICE
SECTION:
1-11-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-11-2: Powers And Duties
1-11-3: Bond
1-11-4: Salary
1-11-5: Removal From Office
1-11-6: Vacancy
1-11-7: Enforcement Of Ordinances
1-11-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Chief of Police of the City shall hold the office by appointment by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council. The term of his office shall be
for one year and until his successor is appointed and qualified. (1979 Code;
amd. Ord. 90-14, 4-30-1991)
1-11-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Chief of Police shall have all the powers and duties now specified by law
or ordinance and shall have such other duties and powers as the City Council or
Mayor may from time to time specify. (1979 Code; amd. Ord. 90-14, 4-30-1991)
1-11-3: BOND:
The Chief of Police shall before entering upon the duties of his office, take
and subscribe the oath required of other officers and file the same with the
City Clerk. He shall also execute a bond to the City in the penal sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with surety to be approved by the Council, and the
conditions of said bond to be the same as in the case of other City officers.
(1979 Code; amd. Ord. 90-14, 4-30-1991)
1-11-4: SALARY:
The salary of the Chief of Police shall be as established by the City Council
at the time the office is filled by appointment. (1979 Code; amd. Ord. 90-14,
4-30-1991)
1-11-5: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Chief of Police shall at all times be subject to the control of the City
Council. He may be removed from office by the City Council for failure or
refusal to comply with the lawful direction of said Council or any committee
designated by the Mayor, or refusal to discharge any of his duties. (1979 Code;
amd. Ord. 90-14, 4-30-1991)
1-11-6: VACANCY:
When a vacancy in the Office of Chief of Police shall exist by reason of death,
resignation, inability to discharge the duties of the office by reason of ill
health or other cause, or by removal from office by action of the City Council,
the office shall be filled in the same manner as provided for in section
1-11-1 of this chapter until the initial term expires. (1979 Code; amd. Ord.
90-14, 4-30-1991)
1-11-7: ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES:
The Chief of Police shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinances of
the City. He shall report to the appropriate committee of the City Council any
violation of any ordinance and shall bring proper action in courts of justice
against any and all violators of such ordinances. He shall be Chief of Police
and a member of the Board of Health of the City, and all special policemen
shall be under his control and command, except that he and other special police
officers shall at all times be subject to the direction of the Committee on
Safety. (1979 Code; amd. Ord. 90-14, 4-30-1991)
CHAPTER 12
CITY COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-12-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-12-2: Bond
1-12-3: Compensation
1-12-4: Duties
1-12-5: Duties; Waterworks System
1-12-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The City Collector shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council in accordance with the laws and the Statutes of the
State of Illinois, for a term of one year commencing on the first day of May of
each year. (1979 Code)
1-12-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office the City Collector shall execute
a bond in such amount and with such sureties as is provided by statute,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. (1979 Code)
1-12-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the City Collector shall be established by the City Council
at the time the office is filled by appointment. (1979 Code)
1-12-4: DUTIES:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Collector to collect all sums of
money now due and owing to the City, or which shall hereafter become due and
owing, and turn over all money so received by him on behalf of the City to the
City Treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same; and with such money he shall
give a statement as to the source thereof.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Collector to keep an account showing all
money received by him and the source and disposition thereof, and such other
accounts as may be required by statute or ordinance. (1979 Code)
1-12-5: DUTIES; WATERWORKS SYSTEM:
At the first Council meeting in May and every four (4) months thereafter, the
City Collector shall report a full list of the names of all water takers that
have not paid their water rentals up to date. If any water takers shall be
delinquent ten (10) days after sending a notice of such with the second
billing, the water service shall be terminated as to such delinquent water
taker. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 13
SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-13-2: Powers And Duties
1-13-3: Bond
1-13-4: Compensation
1-13-5: Removal From Office
1-13-6: Vacancy
1-13-7: Supervision Of Construction And Maintenance
1-13-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Superintendent of Streets of the City shall hold the office by appointment
by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. The term of his office
shall be for one year and until his successor is appointed and qualified. (1979
Code)
1-13-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Superintendent of Streets shall have all the powers and duties now
specified by law or ordinance, and shall have such other duties and powers as
the City Council shall from time to time specify. (1979 Code)
1-13-3: BOND:
The Superintendent shall before entering upon the duties of his office, take
and subscribe the oath required of other officers and file the same with the
City Clerk. He shall also execute a bond to the City in the penal sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with surety to be approved by the Council, the
conditions of said bond to be the same as in the case of other City officers.
(1979 Code)
1-13-4: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Superintendent of Streets shall be fixed by the City
Council at the time the office is filled by appointment. (1979 Code)
1-13-5: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Superintendent shall at all times be subject to the control of the City
Council. He may be removed from office by the City Council for failure or
refusal to comply with the lawful direction of said Council or the Committee on
Streets, or for failure or refusal to discharge any of his duties. (1979 Code)
1-13-6: VACANCY:
When a vacancy in the Office of Superintendent of Streets shall exist by reason
of death, resignation, inability to discharge the duties of the office by
reason of ill health or other cause, or by removal from office by action of the
City Council, the office shall be filled in the same manner as provided in
section
1-13-1 of this chapter to fill the position until the initial term expires.
(1979 Code)
1-13-7: SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE:
Subject at all times to the orders and directives of the Committee on Streets,
he shall have full control over all personnel employed in the construction and
maintenance of the streets and sidewalks of the City. He shall keep such time
books as may be directed by the committee or the City Council, and shall
perform such other duties as are necessary to the fulfillment of the purposes
of his office. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 14
CITY TAXES
SECTION:
1-14-1: Tax Rate; General Corporate Purposes
1-14-2: Street And Bridge Tax
1-14-1: TAX RATE; GENERAL CORPORATE PURPOSES:
The maximum tax rate for general corporate purposes for the City shall be two
hundred seventy five thousandths percent (0.275%) of the assessed value of all
taxable property in the City as ascertained and set by law. (Ord. 549, 12-10-
1951)
1-14-2: STREET AND BRIDGE TAX:
There is hereby levied upon all taxable property within the corporate limits of
the City, subject to taxation for the current year, an additional tax of six
hundredths percent (0.06%) of the full fair cash value of all said taxable
property subject to taxation for the current year, as such valuation is
equalized and assessed by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois,
which said additional tax shall be for street and bridge purposes.
There is hereby levied:
 
For street purposes of the City $5,000.00
For bridge purposes of the City None
 
Said levy shall be in addition to all other sums heretofore or hereafter levied
for street and bridge purposes of the City for the fiscal year.
The additional tax for street and bridge purposes and the amount hereby levied
therefor is made pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-81-1, Rate.
(Ord. 74-6, 9-3-1974)
CHAPTER 15
CITY BUDGET PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Adoption Of Annual Budget
1-15-2: Budget Officer
1-15-3: Computation Of Annual Budget
1-15-4: Public Inspection, Notice And Hearing On Budget
1-15-5: Division Of Annual Budget
1-15-1: ADOPTION OF ANNUAL BUDGET:
The City of Carthage hereby adopts section 5/
8-2-9.1 through and including section 5/
8-2-9.10 of chapter 65 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes providing for an
annual Municipal budget. (Ord. 77-21, 4-3-1978; amd. 2018 Code)
1-15-2: BUDGET OFFICER:
The Mayor of the City, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint a
Budget Officer who shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities
enumerated in the above sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes as they now
or may hereafter be amended. (Ord. 77-21, 4-3-1978; amd. 2018 Code)
1-15-3: COMPUTATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET:
The Budget Officer shall compile a budget, pursuant to the above sections of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes as they are now or may hereafter be amended,
containing estimates of the revenues available before the beginning of the
fiscal year to which it applies together with recommended expenditures for the
Municipality and for all its boards, commissions and departments. Such budget
shall be adopted prior to May 1 of each fiscal year. (Ord. 77-21, 4-3-1978)
1-15-4: PUBLIC INSPECTION, NOTICE AND HEARING ON BUDGET:
Copies of the tentative annual budget shall be made available for public
inspection in printed or typewritten form in the Office of the City Clerk in
and for the City for at least ten (10) days' prior to the passage of the annual
budget. Not less than one week after the budget is available for inspection and
prior to final action, at least one public hearing shall be held on the budget
by the City Council. Notice of this hearing shall be given by publication in a
newspaper, having a general circulation in the City, at least one week prior to
the time of such hearing. (Ord. 77-21, 4-3-1978)
1-15-5: DIVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET:
The City Council may delegate authority to heads of Municipal departments,
boards or commissions to delete, add to, or change items previously budgeted to
the department, board or commission subject to such limitation or requirement
for prior approval by the Budget Officer or Committee of Finances as the City
Council of the City upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members may establish.
The annual budget may be revised by a vote of two- thirds (2/3) of the City
Council by deleting, adding to or changing budgeted items. No revision of the
budget shall be made increasing the budget in the event funds are not available
to effectuate the purpose of the revision. (Ord. 77-21, 4-3-1978)
CHAPTER 16
DEPOSITORIES
SECTION:
1-16-1: Depositories Designated
1-16-1: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED:
The Fortress Bank, Marine Trust Company of Carthage, and First Bankers Trust
are hereby designated as depositories in which the funds of the City, in the
custody of the Treasurer thereof may be deposited. (Ord. 92-7, 10-13-1992; amd.
2018 Code)
Such banks or any of them herein designated as depositories shall not be
qualified to receive such funds or moneys until they have furnished the City
Council with copies of the last two (2) sworn statements of resources and
liabilities which such banks are required to furnish to the Auditor of Public
Accounts or to the Comptroller of Currency.
Such banks designated as depositories for such funds or moneys shall furnish
the City Council with a copy of all bank statements which they are required to
furnish to the Auditor of Public Accounts or to the Comptroller of Currency,
while acting as such depositories.
If funds or moneys are deposited in such banks herein designated and
depositories, the amount of such deposit in either of such banks shall not
exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the capital stock and surplus of such
bank, and the Treasurer shall not be discharged from responsibility for any
such funds or moneys deposited in any bank in excess of such limitation. (Ord.
92-7, 10-13-1992)
CHAPTER 17
WARDS
SECTION:
1-17-1: Boundaries Of Wards
1-17-1: BOUNDARIES OF WARDS:
The City shall be and is hereby divided into wards bounded and designated as
follows:
   (A)   The First Ward shall embrace all that part of the City lying North of
the following described line: Beginning at the centerline of Buchanan Street in
the eastern City limits, thence West along the centerline of Buchanan Street
until it intersects with College Street, thence South along the centerline of
College Street until it intersects with the centerline of Walnut Street, thence
West along the centerline of Walnut Street until it intersects with Scofield
Street, thence North along the centerline of Scofield Street until it
intersects with Buchanan Street, thence West along the centerline of Buchanan
Street to the western City limits. (Ord. 92-11, 1-12-1993)
   (B)   The Second Ward shall embrace all that part of the City lying South
and East of the following described line: Beginning at the centerline in the
eastern City limits, thence West along the centerline of Buchanan Street until
it intersects with College Street, thence South along the centerline of College
Street until it intersects with Walnut Street, thence West along Walnut Street
until it intersects with Scofield Street, thence North along the centerline of
Scofield Street until it intersects with Buchanan Street, thence West along
Buchanan Street until it intersects with Adams Street, thence South along the
centerline of Adams Street to the centerline of Augusta Road, thence east along
the centerline of Augusta Road to Washington Street, thence South along the
centerline of Washington Street to Memorial Drive, thence West along Memorial
Drive to the centerline of Memorial Drive where it intersects with Parkway
Drive, thence South to the Southern City limits.
   (C)   The Third Ward shall embrace all that part of the City lying South of
the First Ward as above described and West of the Second Ward as above
described. (Ord. 92-3, 7-28-1992)
CHAPTER 18
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-18-1: Seal; Form
1-18-2: Custody
1-18-1: SEAL; FORM:
The seal heretofore provided and used by the City of Carthage, the impression
of which is a circle, the word "Seal" in capital Roman letters across the
center, with the words, "Carthage, Hancock County, Ill." around and above the
word "Seal" and the words, "Incorporated 1849" under such word, and the words
"Carthage, Hancock County Ill. - Incorporated 1849" in a circle around the
inner circle and just inside the outer circular lines, shall be and is hereby
established and declared to have been the Seal of the Town of Carthage and now
to be the Seal of the City of Carthage. (Ord. 4, 12-5-1908)
1-18-2: CUSTODY:
The City Clerk shall have the custody of the Corporate Seal. (Ord. 4, 12-5-
1908)
CHAPTER 19
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
1-19-1: Title
1-19-2: Scope
1-19-3: Definitions
1-19-4: Notices
1-19-5: Late Payment
1-19-6: Payment
1-19-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-19-8: Audit Procedure
1-19-9: Appeal
1-19-10: Hearing
1-19-11: Interest And Penalties
1-19-12: Abatement
1-19-13: Installment Contracts
1-19-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-19-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-19-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-19-17: Internal Review Procedure
1-19-18: Application
1-19-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-
2000)
1-19-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the City's procedures in
connection with all of the City's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
   CITY: The City of Carthage, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The City's Mayor and City Council.
   HEARING OFFICER: An administrative individual appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the Corporate Authorities to conduct hearings and to
issue final determinations regarding the collection of all locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The City's Mayor is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the Local Tax
Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator's stead. The Local Tax
Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this chapter
to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by the
Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the City
that is collected or administered by the City not an agency or department of
the State. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the City other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the City's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the City that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
City. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the Local
Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as
follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the City
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the City on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the City, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   (A)   The City shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
two (2) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The City shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the City.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the City.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt of the Local Tax Administration
of any claim for a refund of credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the Local Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the City.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the City. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the Tax
Administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the City's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-9: APPEAL:
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the City during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-10: HEARING:
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a Tax Collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-19-9 of this chapter, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal. The taxpayer may request that a Hearing Officer conduct
the hearing rather than the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
   (C)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator/Hearing Officer shall
preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax
determination, audit or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply. At the hearing the Local Tax
Administrator/Hearing Officer shall preside.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator/Hearing
Officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or Tax Collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest: The City hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of not to exceed five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be
shown as due on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five
percent (5%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the
time or manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the City
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2000-14,
12-12-2000)
1-19-12: ABATEMENT:
The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the Local
Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The City may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the Local Administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The City, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
City, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the Local Tax Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-
2000)
1-19-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk's Office. (Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-17: INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
   (A)   Timely remove the lien at the City's expense;
   (B)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   (C)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2000-14, 12-12-2000)
1-19-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the City's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling.
(Ord. 2000-14, 12-12-2000)
CHAPTER 20
ORDINANCE PUBLICATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-20-1: Publication Of Ordinances
1-20-1: PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES:
All ordinances of the City of Carthage imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment, or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, or that are otherwise
required to be published, shall be published in pamphlet form pursuant to
chapter 65, section 5/
1-2-4, Illinois Compiled Statutes.
The City Clerk shall publish all such ordinances in pamphlet form and in no
less than twelve (12) copies and make them available to the public at the
Office of the City Clerk on the City Clerk's counter, and maintaining and
replenishing said twelve (12) copies for thirty (30) days after the passage of
any such ordinance. (Ord. 2017-7, 11-28-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Board Of Health   1
Emergency Services And Disaster Agency   2
Planning Commission   3
Fair Housing   4
Board Of Museum Directors   5
Foreign Fire Insurance Board   6
[Reserved]   7
[Reserved]   8
[Reserved]   9
Auditorium   10
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2-1-1: Members
2-1-2: Term Of Office
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-4: Organization
2-1-5: Health Officer
2-1-6: Meetings
2-1-7: Powers And Duties
2-1-8: Jurisdiction
2-1-9: Orders Of Board Executed
2-1-10: Expenditures
2-1-11: Report
2-1-1: MEMBERS:
There is hereby established a department of the Municipal government of the
City, to be known as the Board of Health, which shall consist of five (5)
suitable and competent persons, including the Chief of Police, and at least one
of whom shall be a licensed physician, to be appointed by the Mayor of the City
with the advice and consent of the City Council. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the Board of Health shall hold office for the term of one year,
or until their successors are appointed and qualified. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the members, officers and employees of the Board of Health
shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION:
At its first meeting, the members of the Board of Health shall elect one of the
members President, the City Clerk shall be Ex officio secretary of the board.
(Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-5: HEALTH OFFICER:
The Health Officer, who shall be the Chief of Police and the Executive Officer
of the board, shall be a member of the Board of Health. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-6: MEETINGS:
The Board of Health shall hold its meetings in the City Hall at such times as
its members, by resolution may determine. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Health shall exercise a general supervision over the health of the
City, with full power to make such rules and regulations, and to take such
steps, and employ such measures as are necessary to promote the cleanliness and
salubrity of the City. It shall have full charge of the prevention, restriction
and suppression of contagious and infectious diseases. For the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this chapter and health regulations set forth in
title 7 of this Code, the members of the Board of Health and its officers shall
be permitted to enter, at any reasonable hour, any premises or building within
the City. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-8: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of the Board of Health shall extend over the City and to a
point one-half (1/2) mile beyond the limits of the City, and all rules and
regulations of the Board of Health, relating to sanitation and public health
and the abatement of nuisances shall apply to and be in force over such
territory. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-9: ORDERS OF BOARD EXECUTED:
The Chief of Police of the City, or any member of the Police Department, shall
cause the orders of the Board of Health to be executed. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-10: EXPENDITURES:
The Board of Health shall not contract any financial obligations, or expend any
money beyond the amount appropriated for its work by the City Council. (Ord.
802, 7-10-1967)
2-1-11: REPORT:
The board shall, from time to time, recommend to the City Council such measures
as it may deem necessary to promote and secure the health and cleanliness of
the City; and said board shall annually, on or before April 1, render to the
City Council a full and accurate statement of all expenses incurred in the
discharge of its duties, together with a detailed statement of its operations
for the preceding year. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment
2-2-2: Coordinator
2-2-3: Functions
2-2-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
2-2-5: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-2-6: Emergency Action
2-2-7: Compensation
2-2-8: Reimbursement By State
2-2-9: Purchases And Expenditures
2-2-10: Oath
2-2-11: Office
2-2-12: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the City Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, to
prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from
natural or man-made disaster, in accordance with the "Illinois Emergency
Services and Disaster Act of 1975".
This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members as
selected by the Coordinator and the City Council of the City. (Ord. 78-5, 7-25-
1978)
2-2-2: COORDINATOR:
The Coordinator of the City ESDA shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council of the City and shall serve until
removed by the same.
The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Mayor as provided by statute.
In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the
Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him shall be and act as
Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter. (Ord.
78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-3: FUNCTIONS:
The City ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the City as shall be
prescribed in and by the State ESDA plan and program prepared by the Governor,
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor,
and in addition shall perform the duties outside the corporate limits as may be
required pursuant to any Mutual Aid Agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the
"State ESDA Act of 1975". (Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the City ESDA organization may be designated as members
of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA as provided
by law.
The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the Coordinator
of the City ESDA organization.
Any member of a mobile support team who is a City employee or officer while
serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director, shall receive
the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to
such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the City while so serving shall receive from the State reasonable
compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The Coordinator of the ESDA may negotiate Mutual Aid Agreements with other
cities or political subdivisions of the State, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Mayor or City Council of the City
and by the State Director of ESDA. (Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack on the United States or the occurrence within the State of
Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action, or from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be a duty of the City
ESDA to cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the
exercising of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the City, if called
for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members
who are not such City employees or officers shall receive for such training
time such compensation as may be established by the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the State to the City for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team serving outside
the City in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of ESDA, as
provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the State incident to ESDA
activities as provided by law. (Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The Mayor may, on recommendation of the City Coordinator of ESDA, authorize any
purchase of contracts necessary to place the City in a position to combat
effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or other
bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect property,
provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such disaster, or from
man-made or natural disaster.
In the event of enemy cause or other disaster, the City Coordinator of ESDA is
authorized on behalf of the City to procure such services, supplies, equipment
or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the exigency
without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed
by law pertaining to City contract or obligations, as authorized by the "State
ESDA Act of 1975"; provided that if the Council meets at such time he shall act
subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body. (Ord. 78-5, 7-
25-1978)
2-2-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity on the City ESDA organization
shall, before entering upon his duties prescribe to the following oath, which
shall be filed with the Coordinator:
I             , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support, defend and
bear true faith in the allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and
to the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and to the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely and without
any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate nor am I nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of the State by force or violence; and
that during such time that I am affiliated with the City ESDA organization, I
will not advocate or become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the United States or the State by force or
violence.
(Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-11: OFFICE:
The Mayor of the City is authorized to designate space in a City building or
elsewhere as may be provided for by the Mayor for the City ESDA as its office.
(Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
2-2-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The Mayor and City Council may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in a
manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax
not to exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the
assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as
provided by the "State ESDA Act of 1975". However, that amount collectible
under such levy shall in no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita.
(Ord. 78-5, 7-25-1978)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Membership
2-3-3: Term Of Office
2-3-4: Procedure
2-3-5: Powers And Duties
2-3-6: Land Subdivision, Re-Subdivision; Official Map
2-3-7: Improvements
2-3-8: Expenditures
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
In order that adequate provision may be made for the preparation of a
Comprehensive City Plan for the guidance, direction and control of the growth
and development or redevelopment of the City and contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included
in any municipality, a Planning Commission is hereby created under authority of
State Statute. (Ord. 778, 8-1-1966)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The Planning Commission shall consist of nine (9) members, citizens of the City
appointed by the Mayor, on the basis of their particular fitness for their duty
on said Planning Commission and subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 778, 8-1-1966)
2-3-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the Planning Commission shall serve for a period of three (3)
years. Commencing with the fiscal year May 1, 1968, three (3) members of the
Planning Commission shall be appointed for a term of one year, three (3)
members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed for a term of two (2)
years, and three (3) members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed for
a term of three (3) years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for
unexpired terms only. All of the members of the commission shall serve without
compensation, except that if the City Council deems it advisable, they may
receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time by the City Council
and provided for in the appropriation ordinance. Members of the Planning
Commission shall be appointed for their respective terms by the Mayor of the
City with the advice and consent of the City Council. (Ord. 820, 4-30-1968)
2-3-4: PROCEDURE:
Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Planning Commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with City ordinances and State laws. The commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings which shall be open at all times to public
inspection. The commission shall also file an annual report with the Mayor and
City Council, setting forth its transactions and recommendations. (Ord. 778, 8-
1-1966)
2-3-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a Comprehensive Plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the City and contiguous
unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits of the City and not included in any other municipality. Such
plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts,
each of which, when adopted, shall be the Official Comprehensive Plan, or part
thereof, of the City of Carthage. Such plans shall be advisory except as to
such part thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the
City Council. All requirements for public hearing, filing of Notice of Adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of said plan and ordinances with
the Municipal Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law.
To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants
of the City and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish
reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for re-subdivisions of
unimproved lands and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public
improvements as herein defined and shall establish reasonable requirements
governing location, width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways,
alleys, ways for public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street
lights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for
residential purposes, stormwater drainage, water supply and distribution,
sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment. The requirements
specified herein shall become regulatory only when adopted by ordinance.
   (B)   To designate lands suitable for annexation to the Municipality and
recommend zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   (C)   To recommend to the City Council, from time to time, such changes in
the Comprehensive Plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the Official
Comprehensive Plan.
   (E)   To give aid to the official of the City charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the Official Plan, or parts thereof,
to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote the
realization of the Official Comprehensive Plan.
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding.
   (G)   To cooperate with Municipal or regional Planning Commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   (H)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of State Statute, as may be conferred by the City Council. (Ord. 778,
8-1-1966)
2-3-6: LAND SUBDIVISION, RE-SUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP:
At any time before or after the formal adoption of the Official Comprehensive
Plan by the Corporate Authorities, an official map may be designated by
ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included within the Official
Comprehensive Plan, or one or more separate geographical or functional parts,
and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area within
one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate limits of the City. All
requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the County
Recorder of Deeds, and filing of said plan and ordinances, including the
official map, with the Municipal Clerk shall be complied with as provided for
by law. No map or plat of any subdivision or re-subdivision presented for
record affecting land within the corporate limits of the City or within
contiguous territory which is not more than one and one- half (11/2) miles
beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid
unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for standards of design, and
standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service
facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for
residential purposes, storm and flood water run-off channels and basins, water
supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment
in conformity with the applicable requirements of the ordinances, including the
official map. (Ord. 778, 8-1-1966)
2-3-7: IMPROVEMENTS:
The City Clerk shall furnish the Planning Commission, for its consideration, a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Planning Commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the City Council. (Ord.
778, 8-1-1966)
2-3-8: EXPENDITURES:
The commission may, at the discretion of the City Council, employ a paid
Secretary or staff, or both, whose salary, wages and other necessary expenses
shall be provided for by the City Council from the public funds. If said
Planning Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice or
services, it may be done upon authority from the City Council and
appropriations by the City Council therefor. (Ord. 778, 8-1-1966)
CHAPTER 4
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
2-4-1: Short Title
2-4-2: Declaration Of Policy
2-4-3: Definitions
2-4-4: Unfair Housing And Real Estate Practices
2-4-5: Fair Housing Commission
2-4-6: Membership
2-4-7: Term Of Office
2-4-8: Designation Of Chairman
2-4-9: Removal Of Members
2-4-10: General Duties And Powers
2-4-11: Enforcement Procedures
2-4-12: Filing A Complaint
2-4-13: Investigation Of Complaint
2-4-14: Full Public Hearing
2-4-15: Report On Hearings
2-4-16: Recommendation On Method Of Enforcement
2-4-17: Procedure Upon Exhaustion Of Administrative Remedies
2-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE OF
CARTHAGE, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-2: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to provide for the
protection of the public safety, for the health, morals and welfare of the
persons residing in the City to assure full and equal opportunity to all
residents of the City in the attainment of fair and adequate housing for
themselves and their families without discrimination against them because of
their race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status,
ancestry or handicap.
It is further declared to be the policy of the City that in the spirit of
harmony, the Council and its Fair Housing Commission shall endeavor to work and
cooperate with the homeowners and realtors of the City to uphold the declared
purpose of this chapter in an orderly, lawful and proper fashion. (Ord. 80-15,
11-12-1980)
2-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   COMMISSION: Shall mean the Fair Housing Commission of the City of Carthage.
   COMMISSION PANEL: Shall mean a panel comprised of three (3) or more members
of the commission, designated by the Chairman of the commission, to investigate
and to attempt to conciliate a complaint.
   DISCRIMINATION: Shall mean any difference in the terms of the sale, rental,
leasing or financing of any real property offered to a person applying for such
sale, rental, lease or financing because of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, marital status, ancestry or handicap.
   LEASE: Shall include sublease, assignment and rental and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION: Shall mean any bank, insurance company, savings and
loan association or any other person in the business of obtaining, arranging or
negotiating loans or guarantees as agent or broker and any person in the
business of buying or selling loans or instruments for the payment of money
which are secured by title to or a security interest in real estate.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER: Shall mean any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns
any beneficial interest in, any real property or who holds legal or equitable
title to share of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real estate
cooperative which owns any real property.
   PERSON: Shall mean one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and
fiduciaries.
   PURCHASE: Shall mean any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT: Shall mean any real estate broker, any real estate
salesman, and any other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages
in the management or operation of any real property.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER: Shall mean any person licensed as a real estate broker
in accordance with the provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes or required
thereby to be so licensed.
   REAL ESTATE SALESMAN: Shall mean any person licensed as a real estate
salesman in accordance with the provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes,
or required thereby to be so licensed.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: Shall mean the purchase, sale, exchange, rental or
lease of any real property, or an option to do any of the foregoing.
   REAL PROPERTY: Shall mean any real estate, vacant land, building or
structure within the City limits.
   SALE: Includes any contract to sell, exchange or to convey, transfer or
assign legal or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real property.
(Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-4: UNFAIR HOUSING AND REAL ESTATE PRACTICES:
It shall be unlawful and discriminatory practice for any owner, lessee,
sublessee, assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation or any
agent of these:
   (A)   To withhold listings or refuse to sell or rent after the making of a
bona fide offer or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or
otherwise make unavailable a dwelling to any person because of race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, ancestry or handicap.
   (B)   To discriminate or participate in discrimination in connection with
borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages, or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repairs or maintenance of any real property
because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status,
ancestry or handicap.
   (C)   To participate in unlawful real estate practice is a violation of this
chapter, for any real estate broker, sales person, agent, owner or any other
person to deceive, exploit, cheat or over-charge any person in a real property
transaction in the City because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
age, marital status, ancestry or handicap.
   (D)   To directly or indirectly advertise or in any other manner indicate or
publicize that the purchase, rental, lease assignment or sublease of any real
property or any part, portion or interest therein, by persons of any particular
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, ancestry or
handicap, is unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable or not solicited.
   (E)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for sale or lease any real
property on the grounds of loss of value, due to the present or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of any person or persons of any particular race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, ancestry or
handicap.
   (F)   To make, distribute or cause to be made or distributed any written
material or statements designed to induce any owner of real estate to sell or
lease his property because of any present or prospective change in the race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, ancestry or
handicap.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person solely because of his or her race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, ancestry or
handicap in the terms, conditions or privileges of sale, rental, lease,
assignment or sublease of any real property or any part, portion of interest
therein, when in fact the property is available.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The sale or rental of single family houses owned by a private
individual owner of three (3) or fewer such single family houses if a broker is
not used, discriminatory advertising is not used and no more than one house in
which the owner was not the most recent resident is sold during any two (2)
year period.
   (B)   Rentals of rooms or units in owner-occupied multi-family dwellings for
two (2) to four (4) families, if discriminatory advertising is not used.
   (C)   Limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings that a religious
organization owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of
the same religion, if membership in that religion is not restricted on account
of race, color or national origin.
   (D)   Limiting to its own members the rental or occupancy of lodgings which
a private club owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose. (Ord. 80-
15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-5: FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION:
There is hereby created a commission in the City which shall consist of seven
(7) members appointed by the Mayor with consent and approval of the City
Council. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980; amd. 2018 Code)
2-4-6: MEMBERSHIP:
All members of the commission shall be residents of the City. Commission
members will represent the social, cultural and economic interests of the
community. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-7: TERM OF OFFICE:
Each member shall serve a term of three (3) years or until his successor is
appointed and qualified. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-8: DESIGNATION OF CHAIRMAN:
The Mayor shall designate one of the members of the commission to be its
Chairman. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-9: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Members of the commission may be removed for cause by the Mayor, with the
consent of the Council upon written charges and after public hearing. (Ord. 80-
15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-10: GENERAL DUTIES AND POWERS:
The commission shall have and exercise the following duties and powers to:
   (A)   Receive and initiate, record and investigate complaints charging
unlawful housing practice.
   (B)   Seek conciliation of parties involved in such complaints by
conciliation conferences, holding public hearings when necessary, making
findings of fact, issuing recommendations and by reporting its findings of fact
and recommendations in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   To recommend that the City Council instruct the City Attorney to seek
a temporary restraining order or injunctive relief in any court of competent
jurisdiction when the commission has reasonable cause to believe that an unfair
real estate practice has occurred.
   (D)   To render a written report to the City Council of its activities and
recommendations with respect to fair real estate practices, upon Council
request.
   (E)   To make available to the public, information regarding the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-11: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
The commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-12: FILING A COMPLAINT:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by any violation of any provision of this
chapter may file a written complaint, on a printed form of complaint, issued by
the commission, setting forth his grievances. This shall be rendered to the
Chairperson of the commission who shall mark the date of filing. Said complaint
shall be filed within one hundred twenty (120) days after the violation alleged
in the complaint. The complaint shall state name and address of complainant and
of the persons against whom the complaint was brought and shall also state the
alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-13: INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINT:
The commission is hereby fully authorized immediately to investigate any such
complaint filed. If the commission or subcommittee of the commission determines
that the respondent has not engaged in any unlawful practice, it shall state
its findings of fact in writing and dismiss the complaint. If the commission or
a subcommittee of the commission determines after an investigation that
probable cause exists for the allegation made in the complaint, the commission
shall set a date for a conciliation conference. At such conference, the
commission or a subcommittee of the commission shall interview the complainant
and the person or person against whom the complaint has been directed and shall
attempt to resolve the complaint by all proper methods of conciliation and
persuasion. If such attempts at conciliation are not successful within thirty
(30) days after the filing of the complaint, the commission shall then proceed
promptly with full hearing of the complaint, not to exceed sixty (60) days,
after the filing of the complaint and after reasonable notice to all parties.
(Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-14: FULL PUBLIC HEARING:
Such hearing shall be conducted by the commission or a subcommittee thereof.
The commission shall have full power to subpoena witnesses and pertinent
documents and to take sworn testimony. Any party alleged to have violated this
chapter shall have the right to representation by counsel and shall have the
right to call witnesses on his own behalf and to cross-examine witnesses. (Ord.
80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-15: REPORT ON HEARINGS:
At the conclusion of a hearing held pursuant to this chapter, the commission
shall render to the City Council a written report with recommendations which
shall also be served by mail upon the complainant and the party or parties
charged. No report shall be delayed more than sixty (60) days after the first
issuance of the notice for commencement of a hearing. (Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-16: RECOMMENDATION ON METHOD OF ENFORCEMENT:
The commission shall be empowered at the conclusion of a hearing held under
this chapter as part of its report to recommend to the City Council that it
directs the City Attorney to do any one or more of the following:
   (A)   To institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce against any person
found in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
      1.   For an order restraining any person from violating provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   For such other and further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this chapter and for the elimination of
violations therefor.
   (C)   To petition or institute proceedings with the Illinois Department of
Registration and Education for the purpose of causing the department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by the department to any real
estate broker or real estate salesman found to have violated any provision of
this chapter.
   (D)   In the case of any unlawful real estate practice or violation of this
chapter by any person in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the State or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to petition or
institute proceedings against such contracting agency for the purpose of
seeking to have such contract or any portion thereof terminated, either
absolutely or on condition of compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 80-15, 11-12-1980)
2-4-17: PROCEDURE UPON EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision of this
chapter who has exhausted the administrative remedies provided for in this
chapter may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief
from such violation including:
   (A)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter from the sale, rent, lease, exchange, transfer,
conveyance or assignment of any real property, by any person who in violation
of this chapter refuses or fails to perform such contract.
   (C)   Compensatory damages.
   (D)   Such other and further relief as may seem appropriate to the court for
the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations hereof. (Ord.
80-15, 11-12-1980)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF MUSEUM DIRECTORS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Museum Established
2-5-2: Board Of Directors, Membership And Terms
2-5-3: Election Of Officers; Duties Of Board
2-5-4: Contributions
2-5-5: Disposal Of Accessions
2-5-6: Admission To Museum
2-5-7: Museum Maintenance
2-5-8: Annual Reports And Budget
2-5-1: MUSEUM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established and shall hereafter be maintained for the use and
benefit of the inhabitants of the City, subject to such reasonable rules and
regulations as the Board of Directors of such museum may adopt, a public
museum. (Ord. 84-3, 5-22-1984)
2-5-2: BOARD OF DIRECTORS, MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
   (A)   Membership: The affairs of the public museum shall be managed and
controlled by a board of nine (9) Directors, who shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council, and who shall be chosen from the
citizens at large with reference to their fitness for such office and not more
than one member of the City Council shall be at any one time a member of such
board.
   (B)   Term; Removal From Office: The Museum Directors shall hold office one-
third (1/3) for one year, one-third (1/3) for two (2) years and one-third (1/3)
for three (3) years from April 30 following their appointment, and at their
first regular meeting shall cast lots for the respective terms and annually
thereafter. The Mayor shall, before April 30 of each year, appoint as before,
three (3) Directors who shall hold office for three (3) years, and until their
successors are appointed. The Mayor may by and with the consent of the City
Council remove any Director for misconduct or neglect of duty.
   (C)   Vacancies: Vacancies on the Board of Directors of the museum
occasioned by removals, resignations or otherwise shall be reported to the City
Council and are to be filled in a like manner as original appointments, and no
Director shall receive compensation as such. (Ord. 84-3, 5-22-1984)
2-5-3: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; DUTIES OF BOARD:
The Board of Museum Directors shall, immediately after appointment, meet and
organize by the election of one of their numbers President and by the election
of such officers as they may deem necessary. They shall make and adopt such
bylaws, rules and regulations for their own guidance and for the government of
the museum as may be expedient, but not inconsistent with this chapter. They
shall have the control of the expenditures of all monies collected to the
credit of the museum. The board shall have the power, with the consent of the
City Council, to purchase or lease grounds to occupy, lease or erect an
appropriate building or buildings for the use of the museum; to appoint, with
the advice and consent of the City Council a suitable curator and necessary
assistants and to fix their compensation and shall also have the power to
remove such appointees; and shall in general carry out the spirit and intent of
this chapter in establishing and maintaining a public museum. The board may
exclude from the use of the museum any and all persons who shall wilfully
violate such rules and may extend the privileges and use of such museum to
persons residing out of the City upon such terms and conditions as the board
may from time to time by its regulations prescribe. (Ord. 84-3, 5-22-1984)
2-5-4: CONTRIBUTIONS:
Any person may make a contribution of cash to the museum at any time. The board
may keep or cause to be kept a written record of all such cash contributions.
At the request of any contributor, the board shall provide a memorial
certificate or other type of written acknowledgment acknowledging the gift and
if the gift is in the memory of another person, acknowledging the person in
whose memory the gift is given. The board may receive gifts of accessions to
the museum provided no gift of any accession shall be accepted on behalf of the
museum unless the board approves such. (Ord. 84-3, 5-22-1984)
2-5-5: DISPOSAL OF ACCESSIONS:
No accession of the museum shall be deposed of without the recommendations of
the board and the approval of the City Council. More than one item may be
included in any one recommendation and in any approval by the City Council.
Disposal may be made by exchange with other museums or with collectors for
other accessions. (Ord. 84-3, 5-22-1984)
2-5-6: ADMISSION TO MUSEUM:
Visitors shall be admitted to the museum in accordance with the rules and
regulations as may be from time to time prescribed by the board, and the board
may fix reasonable fees for such admission as it may deem advisable; free
admittance shall be given to curators of other museums, diplomats and visiting
dignitaries. (Ord. 84-3, 5-22-1984)
2-5-7: MUSEUM MAINTENANCE:
The board shall provide regular maintenance for all parts of the museum. (Ord.
84-3, 5-22-1984)
2-5-8: ANNUAL REPORTS AND BUDGET:
   (A)   Reports: The Museum Board of Directors shall make, on or before the
first Monday of September an annual report to the City Council stating the
condition of their trust as of April 30 of that year setting forth the various
sums of money received from the Museum Fund and such other statistics,
information and suggestions as the board may deem of general interest including
recommendations for the future of the museum. All such portions of the report
as they relate to the receipt and expenditures of money shall be verified by
affidavit.
   (B)   Annual Budget: The City shall provide a reasonable sum each fiscal
year for the general maintenance and utility expenses for the uses and purposes
of the museum facility, and especially to the maintenance of the museum
facility. (Ord. 84-3, 5-22-1984)
CHAPTER 6
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
SECTION:
2-6-1: Established
2-6-2: Members; Appointment; Term
2-6-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-6-4: Annual Report
2-6-5: Violation
2-6-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Foreign Fire Insurance Board to be composed of
members of the Carthage Fire Department. (Ord. 2001-14, 2-26-2002)
2-6-2: MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
All such members of the Carthage Fire Department shall be eligible to be
elected as members of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board. Such members shall hold
office for a term of one year from April 30 following their appointment.
Appointment to the board shall be by the members of the Carthage Fire
Department. (Ord. 2001-14, 2-26-2002)
2-6-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   Such board shall consist of six (6) officers and shall include a
Treasurer, and the board shall make all the needful rules and regulations with
respect to the Foreign Fire Insurance Board and the management of the money to
be appropriated to the board.
   (B)   All the monies paid to the Municipal Treasurer as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-1 shall be set apart and shall be
appropriated annually by the City Council of the City of Carthage to the
Foreign Fire Insurance Board.
   (C)   The Treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall receive the
appropriated money and shall pay out the money upon the order of the Foreign
Fire Insurance Board for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the Carthage Fire
Department, and these funds shall be part of the annual audit of the City of
Carthage to verify that the purchases or other uses of such funds are for the
maintenance, use, and benefit of the Carthage Fire Department. (Ord. 2001-14,
2-26-2002)
2-6-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall make, on or before the second Monday of
June, an annual report to the City Council stating the condition of their trust
as of April 30 of that year setting forth the various sums of money received
and the nature and the amounts expended for the maintenance, use, and benefit
of the Carthage Fire Department. (Ord. 2001-14, 2-26-2002)
2-6-5: VIOLATION:
Any person, corporation, company, or association which violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (Ord.
2001-14, 2-26-2002)
CHAPTER 10
AUDITORIUM
SECTION:
2-10-1: Auditorium Established
2-10-2: Auditorium Manager
2-10-3: Expenses Of Operation
2-10-4: Assignment Of Management Agreement Prohibited
2-10-5: Additions Or Alterations Of Buildings
2-10-6: Termination
2-10-7: Auditorium Fund
2-10-1: AUDITORIUM ESTABLISHED:
There shall hereafter be maintained for the use and benefit of the inhabitants
of the City, and other users, a public auditorium, acquired or to be acquired
as a community building pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-63-6,
located at 1160 Buchanan, Carthage, Illinois, which shall be named "The Legacy
Theater." (Ord. 2019-4, 10-8-2019)
2-10-2: AUDITORIUM MANAGER:
The auditorium shall be managed by the Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc., an
Illinois not for profit corporation of Carthage, Illinois, for a period of
three (3) years, from the passage of this chapter, unless sooner terminated,
pursuant to this paragraph, and shall continue thereafter unless modified or
amended by the City Council. Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc. shall:
   (A)   Adopt rules and regulations applicable to the users of the auditorium,
including a rule prohibiting smoking and drug use or possession of alcohol at
events not covered by dram shop insurance.
   (B)   Establish a fee schedule for use of the auditorium to apply to all
users to be revised by their Board from time to time as may be necessary.
   (C)   Shall keep the auditorium in good care and avoid damage to the
facility.
   (D)   Develop appropriate contracts and agreements, including appropriate
damage or cleaning deposits with users of the facility to be signed by a
responsible person and filed with the Board.
   (E)   Employ such persons as their Board determines is appropriate and
provide required workers compensation coverage and pay all employment taxes on
such employees.
   (F)   Maintain appropriate financial records of income and expenditures and
file a report with the City Clerk on a quarterly basis, the first report to be
due to be filed June 30, 2016, and quarterly thereafter.
   (G)   Comply with all federal state and local laws and ordinances in the use
of the auditorium, and take appropriate steps to assure that users do likewise.
   (H)   Receive all users fees and other receipts to their account and
ownership, and utilize such revenues for the operation and improvement of the
auditorium.
   (I)   Provide in the agreement for use of the auditorium, a requirement that
where there is any use of the auditorium involving alcoholic beverages by any
user, the user shall provide dram shop insurance covering the use, including as
insured, the Board and the City of Carthage, for any events where alcohol will
be served for purchase or otherwise. Such insurance certificate shall be
delivered to the City Clerk at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the event
or the event shall not proceed. (Ord. 2019-4, 10-8-2019)
2-10-3: EXPENSES OF OPERATION:
   (A)   The City shall provide liability and comprehensive fire and wind
insurance. Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc. shall be an additional insured named
on liability coverage.
   (B)   The City shall pay up to one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
per month of the utilities of the auditorium until April 30, 2020. Thereafter
Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc. shall pay all utilities arid have all utilities
transferred in to Legacy Theaters Foundation, Inc.'s name.
   (C)   The City shall provide snow removal and mowing service.
   (D)   The Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc. shall pay any real estate taxes
that may be imposed.
   (E)   The City of Carthage shall pay for all repairs and maintenance,
subject to prior approval by the City Council. (Ord. 2019-4, 10-8-2019)
2-10-4: ASSIGNMENT OF MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT PROHIBITED:
The management agreement of Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc. shall not be
subject to assignment without the written approval of the City Council. (Ord.
2019-4, 10-8-2019)
2-10-5: ADDITIONS OR ALTERATIONS OF BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc. shall make no additions or alterations
to the structure of the auditorium without written approval of the City.
   (B)   Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc. shall suffer no mechanics liens on the
auditorium and is not authorized to incur any such charges. (Ord. 2019-4, 10-8-
2019)
2-10-6: TERMINATION:
The Legacy Theater Foundation, Inc., may be terminated as manager upon fourteen
(14) days written notice in the event of any violation of the requirements of
this chapter, unless the violation is subject to cure, in which event, the
termination shall be rescinded by the City if the violation is cured within
said fourteen (14) days or any extensions thereof. (Ord. 2019-4, 10-8-2019)
2-10-7: AUDITORIUM FUND:
There is hereby maintained in the city funds, a fund which shall be known as
the Auditorium Fund. All funds provided by the City Council and all funds
received by the City, if any, shall be placed in the Fund. (Ord. 2019-4, 10-8-
2019)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Fire Insurance Companies   1
Liquor Regulations   2
Solicitors And Canvassers   3
Public Carriers   4
Municipal Occupation Taxes   5
Alarms   6
Video Gaming   7
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax   8
Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited   9
Transient Food Vendors   10
CHAPTER 1
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Tax Imposed
3-1-2: Report Premiums
3-1-3: Payment Of Tax
3-1-4: Nonpayment Of Tax
3-1-5: Fire Department Fund
3-1-1: TAX IMPOSED:
All corporations, companies and associations not incorporated under the laws of
this State, and which are engaged in the City in affecting or soliciting fire
insurance shall pay to the Treasurer of the City, annually upon July 15, a sum
equal to two percent (2%) of the gross receipts of premiums received by such
corporation, company or association or their agency or agents for business
affected or transacted for fire insurance within the City, for the year ending
with July 1. The percent above named shall be a tax or license fee upon all
such corporations, companies or associations transacting said business within
the City. (Ord. 37, 3-9-1896)
3-1-2: REPORT PREMIUMS:
Every person acting as agent or otherwise for or on behalf of any such
corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15 in each and
every year, render to the City Clerk a full, true and just account verified by
oath of all premiums which, during the year ending on July 1, shall have been
received by him or any other person for him in behalf of any such corporation,
company or association, and shall fully and specifically set out in said report
the amount or amounts received as premium for fire insurance. (Ord. 37, 3-9-
1896)
3-1-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
The agent or agents aforesaid shall also at the time of the making of the above
mentioned report, pay to the Treasurer of the City the said sum of two percent
(2%) upon the gross receipts of such corporation, company or association
obtained as premiums for affecting fire insurance in the City, as is specified
in section
3-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 37, 3-9-1896)
3-1-4: NONPAYMENT OF TAX:
If such account be not rendered on or before the day herein designated for the
purpose, or if the above mentioned rates for the said tax or license fee shall
remain unpaid after that day, it shall be unlawful for any such corporation,
company or association to transact any business of fire insurance in the City
until the requirements hereof have been fully complied with. Nevertheless, this
provision shall in no way affect the validity of any risk that may be taken in
violation hereof between such corporation, company or association, and the
person so insured.
If any such corporation, company or association fails to render the account or
report herein designated by the day required by this chapter, or if the above
mentioned rates as a tax or license fee shall remain unpaid after the day
designated, being July 15, every such corporation, company or association shall
forfeit and pay to the City the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) upon
conviction for each and every offense, and in addition to said penalty the City
shall recover in an action in its name for its use against such corporation,
company or association so failing to make such report, or pay such license fee
or tax, the full amount of the said license fee, which would be due under the
provisions hereof. (Ord. 37, 3-9-1896)
3-1-5: FIRE DEPARTMENT FUND:
Any and all sums so received under the provisions hereof shall form and
constitute a fund to be kept separate by the Treasurer of the City for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department of the City. (Ord. 37, 3-9-
1896)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Acceptance Of Regulations
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Additional Licenses Required
3-2-5: Application; Procedure; Contents
3-2-6: Persons Eligible For License
3-2-7: Classification Of Licenses And Fees
3-2-8: Selling Without License
3-2-9: Restriction On Number, Classification
3-2-10: License Periods
3-2-11: Disposition Of Fees
3-2-12: Records Of Licenses
3-2-13: Transferability Of Licenses
3-2-14: Sanitary Requirements
3-2-15: Hours, Days Of Sale
3-2-16: Visibility Of Interior
3-2-17: Enforcement Of Visibility, Lighting Requirements
3-2-18: Sales To Minors, Certain Persons
3-2-19: Sale, Delivery In City Buildings
3-2-20: Employing Minors
3-2-21: Identification, Proof Of Age
3-2-22: Political Campaign Contributions
3-2-23: Owner Responsible
3-2-24: Liability Of Licensee
3-2-25: Public View, Public Place
3-2-26: Sign Warning Required
3-2-27: Revocation; Power Of Liquor Commissioner
3-2-28: Penalties
3-2-29: Compensation Of Liquor Commissioner
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter which are defined in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, as amended, shall have the meanings according to such words
and phrases in said statute. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-2: ACCEPTANCE OF REGULATIONS:
Any person who accepts any alcoholic liquor license issued under this chapter
hereby accepts and agrees to comply with all of the terms and conditions of
this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this Code. (Ord. 74-12, 12-
16-1974)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail within the City any
alcoholic liquor without first having obtained a retail dealer's license for
each location, place or premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for
sale. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-4: ADDITIONAL LICENSES REQUIRED:
The issuance of any license under this chapter shall not relieve the holder
thereof from acquiring other licenses and paying any fees that may be required
by this City for the sale or distribution of products or the performance of any
other service; provided, however, holders of liquor licenses may without
further licenses or fees serve soft drinks incident to their principal purpose.
(Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-5: APPLICATION; PROCEDURE; CONTENTS:
An application for a City retailer's license for the sale of alcoholic liquor
shall be made in writing to the City Clerk who shall forward the application to
the Mayor, as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, for such action as the
Mayor may see fit to take pursuant to the law of this State and the provisions
of this Code. The application must be signed by the applicant, if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation,
verified by oath or affidavit, and should contain the following information and
statements:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in case of an individual;
in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof; and in case of a corporation for profit or a club, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of
such corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and address of
such person, and his nominee, if any.
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the object for which it was formed.
   (D)   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application was made.
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
   (G)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application, for
a similar other license on premises anywhere including the premises described
in this application and the disposition of such application.
   (H)   The statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this State or the provisions of this Code.
   (I)   Where a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, by the
Federal government, has been revoked, and the reason therefor.
   (J)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State of Illinois or the United States, or any provision of this chapter or
other provisions of this Code in the conduct of his place of business. (Ord.
74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-6: PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license required by this chapter shall be issued to:
   (A)   Any person or persons who have not reached the age of twenty one (21).
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or keeping a house
of ill-fame.
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (G)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon first application.
   (H)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   (I)   A copartnership unless all members of such copartnership shall be
qualified to obtain a license.
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the stock
of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship or residence within the City.
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof and preceding provisions regulating the
retail sale of alcoholic liquors in the City or shall have forfeited his bond
to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   (M)   Any law-enforcing public official, any Mayor of the City, any Alderman
of the City; and no such official shall be interested either directly or
indirectly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor in the
City.
   (N)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a State retail
liquor dealer's license.
   (O)   No such license shall be issued to a person who is not a resident of
the City.
   (P)   No such license shall be issued to any person who has ever been
committed to any City, County, State, Federal or probate institution for the
mentally incompetent.
   (Q)   A person, firm or corporation which does not own the premises for
which a license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period
for which the license is to be issued. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES AND FEES:
There are hereby created the following classifications of licenses for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor:
   (A)   Class A License:
      1.   Class A licenses which authorize retail sale on the premises of
alcoholic liquor for the consumption on the premises as well as other retail
sales of liquor. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
      2.   An additional fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
required of all holders of Class A licenses to engage in the sale of alcoholic
liquors on Sunday during the hours of one o'clock (1:00) P.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight.
   (B)   Class B Licenses:
      1.   Class B licenses which authorize retail sale of alcoholic liquor but
not for the consumption on the premises where sold. The annual fee for such
license shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
      2.   An additional fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be
required of all holders of Class B licenses to engage in the sale of alcoholic
liquors on Sunday during the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. (Ord. 2015-15, 4-26-2016)
   (C)   Class C Licenses:
      1.   Class C licenses authorize the retail sale by clubs to members
thereof on the premises specified of all alcoholic liquors. The annual fee for
such licenses shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      2.   An additional fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be
required of all holders of Class C licenses to engage in the sale of alcoholic
liquors on Sunday during the hours of one o'clock (1:00) P.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
   (D)   Class D Licenses:
      1.   Class D licenses authorize the retail sale on the premises and for
the consumption on the premises of beer and wine only. The annual fee for such
license shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00).
      2.   An additional fee of four hundred dollars ($400.00) shall be
required of all holders of Class D licenses to engage in the sale of beer and
wine on Sunday during the hours of one o'clock (1:00) P.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. (Ord. 80-16, 11-12-1980)
   (E)   Class SD Licenses: Class SD licenses (single day licenses) shall
authorize the retail sale for a single day of alcoholic beverages in accordance
with the terms and conditions provided for in such license. Class SD licenses
shall be granted only upon the approval of the City Council and the Liquor
Commissioner. The fee for such license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord.
88-12, 2-28-1989)
3-2-8: SELLING WITHOUT LICENSE:
The retail delivery or sale of alcoholic liquor whether for cash or its
equivalent or as the result of the payment of any admission fee to the premises
or any other indirect method of payment therefor other than pursuant to Class
A, Class B, Class C, Class D and Class SD license as hereinbefore specified, is
hereby prohibited. (Ord. 88-12, 2-28-1989)
3-2-9: RESTRICTION ON NUMBER, CLASSIFICATION:
The total number and classification of liquor licenses to be issued in the City
shall be, unless otherwise changed by action of the City Council, and are
hereby set at:
   (A)   Eight (8) Class A licenses.
   (B)   Five (5) Class B licenses.
   (C)   Three (3) Class C licenses.
   (D)   Three (3) Class D licenses.
If any licensee holding a liquor license under the provisions of this chapter
fails to renew his license, as by law provided, or the same is surrendered,
cancelled, revoked or otherwise terminated, such license of any class shall not
be restored if there are at least four (4) Class A licenses, five (5) Class B
licenses, three (3) Class C licenses or three (3) Class D licenses in full
force and effect. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. Ord. 80-16, 11-12-1980; Ord.
85-9, 1-14-1986; Ord. 91-2, 8-13-1991; Ord. 93-2, 5-11-1993; Ord. 2019-5, 10-8-
2019)
3-2-10: LICENSE PERIODS:
Class A licenses, Class B licenses, Class C licenses and Class D licenses shall
terminate on April 30 next following their issuance. (Ord. 80-16, 11-12-1980)
3-2-11: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All fees required by this chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time
an application is made and shall forthwith be turned over to the Treasurer. In
the event the license applied for is denied the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the
General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by
the City Council, by proper action. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in
proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to
the issuance of the license. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-12: RECORDS OF LICENSES:
The Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all licenses
issued under this chapter and shall furnish the Mayor, Treasurer and Chief of
Police each with a copy thereof; upon the issuance of any license or the
revocation of any old license, the Mayor shall give written notice of such
action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action.
(Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-13: TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for only the period
specified therefor in section
3-2-10 of this chapter unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily or subject to be encumbered or hypothecated. Such
license shall not descend by the laws of the State or intestate devolution, but
it shall cease upon the death of the licensee provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of the deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensees when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privilege of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt until the expiration of such license, but
not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of
such licensee. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
3-2-14: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Every person who is licensed hereunder who shall sell any alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises of such licensee shall keep and maintain the
adequate sanitary washing facilities for the cleaning of glasses and service
utensils, shall provide adequate toilet facilities for both male and female,
and shall otherwise comply with all health and sanitary requirements of the
provisions of this Code applicable to licensed business, if any. All employees
shall be clean in person and in clothing, and no person afflicted with any
contagious disease in communicable form shall be employed in or about the
serving of liquor or in the washing of glasses or other utensils. (Ord. 74-12,
12-16-1974)
3-2-15: HOURS, DAYS OF SALE:
   (A)   It shall be lawful to sell or offer for sale at retail alcoholic
liquors under Class A, B, C and D licenses during the following hours:
      1.   On Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
      2.   On Friday between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day.
      3.   On Saturday between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. the next day. (Ord. 80-16, 11-12-1980)
      4.   For Classes A, C and D, on Sunday between the hours of one o'clock
(1:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 80-16, 11-12-1980; amd.
Ord. 2015-15, 4-26-2016)
For Class B, on Sunday between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 2015-15, 4-26-2016)
   (B)   On New Year's Eve alcoholic liquors may be sold at retail until two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following morning. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974)
   (C)   There shall be no consumption of alcoholic liquors on any portion of
the licensed premises after thirty (30) minutes from the time of closing as
hereinabove stated. (Ord. 77-18, 3-14-1978)
3-2-16: VISIBILITY OF INTERIOR:
In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the
premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant, hotel or club), no screen,
blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the windows
or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such premises which
shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booths, screen, partition or
other obstruction nor any arrangement of light or lighting shall be permitted
in or about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a full view of
the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk, and
said premises must be so located that there shall be full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where
liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted
during business hours by natural light or official white light so that all
parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the
view into any such licensed premises required by the foregoing provision shall
be wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation or suspension in the manner herein
provided. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979 Code)
3-2-17: ENFORCEMENT OF VISIBILITY, LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
In order to enforce the provisions of the foregoing section of this chapter the
Mayor as Liquor Commissioner shall have the right to require the filing with
him of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearness of view and
lighting as specified in the above section. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979
Code)
3-2-18: SALES TO MINORS, CERTAIN PERSONS:
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member or representative,
agent or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor
to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated
person or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift,
insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No
person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell,
give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   (B)   Any person of legal age who shall purchase alcoholic liquor for the
purpose of giving or delivering any of said alcoholic liquor to any minor or
any person not entitled to the same because of age or otherwise as hereinabove
provided, within the City, except the parent or legal guardian of such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic
liquor. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979 Code)
3-2-19: SALE, DELIVERY IN CITY BUILDINGS:
No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building belonging to the
City. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979 Code)
3-2-20: EMPLOYING MINORS:
   (A)   It is unlawful to permit any person under the age of nineteen (19)
years to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor as an employee of any retail
licensee; in the sale, distribution, packaging, delivery of alcoholic liquors,
no liquor licensee licensed by the City may employ, with or without
compensation, or in any way directly or indirectly use the services of a person
under the age of nineteen (19) years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of nineteen (19)
years unless accompanied by a parent or other authorized legal guardian to be
in or on any premises where the principal business includes the sale of
alcoholic liquors other than wine and beer. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979
Code)
3-2-21: IDENTIFICATION, PROOF OF AGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer, alter or deface an
identification card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a
false or forged identification card or to obtain an identification card by
means of false information.
If a licensee or his agents or employees believe or have reason to believe that
the sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the non-age
of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or delivery
demand a representation of some form of positive identification, containing
proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his official
duties. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979 Code)
3-2-22: POLITICAL CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS:
It is unlawful for any licensee, where more than five percent (5%) of the
licensee's gross income is derived from the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any
officer, associate, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to
become liable for, pay or make any contributions directly or indirectly towards
the campaign funds or expenses of any political party, or candidate for public
office or for nomination of any candidate for public office within the City.
(Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979 Code)
3-2-23: OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right of possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use his licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other person shall
be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as said
licensee and shall be subject to same punishment. (Ord. 74-12, 12-16-1974; amd.
1979 Code)
3-2-24: LIABILITY OF LICENSEE:
Every act or admission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or admission had been done by him personally. (Ord.
74-12, 12-16-1974; amd. 1979 Code)
3-2-25: PUBLIC VIEW, PUBLIC PLACE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age, and who has consumed
alcoholic liquor to be in public view or in a public place in the City.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, transport, carry,
possess or have alcoholic liquor except in the original package and with the
seal unbroken on any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
the City. (Ord. 79-2, 6-12-1979)
3-2-26: SIGN WARNING REQUIRED:
Every holder of a Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D and Class SD license in
the City where alcoholic liquor is sold shall display at all times in a
prominent place a printed card which shall be issued by the City Clerk and
shall read substantially as follows:
WARNING
You are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the provisions of the City Code
of Carthage, Hancock County, Illinois, if you purchase or accept alcoholic
liquor, beer or wine, otherwise prohibited because of your age, or misrepresent
your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor, beer or
wine.
(Ord. 88-12, 2-28-1989)
3-2-27: REVOCATION; POWER OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER:
The Mayor, as Liquor Commissioner of the City, shall have the power to suspend
or revoke any liquor license hereunder for violation of any section of this
chapter, as specified in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, and all other powers
granted to him in the aforesaid chapter of the Illinois Compiled Statutes,
subject to the restriction and procedures contained therein. (Ord. 74-12, 12-
16-1974)
3-2-28: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for a first offense and for each offense thereafter not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 74-12,
12-16-1974; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
3-2-29: COMPENSATION OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER:
The Mayor as Liquor Commissioner shall receive as compensation for his services
as Commissioner the sum of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per
year, payable monthly, such compensation to become effective May 1, 2001. (Ord.
2000-09, 10-17-2000)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Registration Required
3-3-2: Application
3-3-3: Fee
3-3-4: Certificate
3-3-5: House To House Canvassing, Soliciting
3-3-6: Exceptions
3-3-7: Acts Prohibited
3-3-8: Revocation
3-3-9: Penalty
3-3-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a canvasser or
solicitor calling at residences for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales,
subscriptions or business of any kind, or seeking for information or donations,
without first having registered in the Office of the City Clerk. The registrant
shall give his complete identification, his signature, the name of his
employer, the nature of the products or services in which he is interested, the
names of the manufacturers of such products, or of the organization which he is
representing and the proposed method of operation in the City. (Ord. 749, 1964)
3-3-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to secure such a solicitor's permit shall apply therefor in
writing over his signature to the City Clerk on forms provided by the City, and
such applicant shall complete all information required on the application
including:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant.
   (B)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation by whom
employed.
   (C)   The length of service of such applicant with such employer.
   (D)   The place of residence and nature of the employment of the applicant
during at least the preceding year.
   (E)   The nature or character of the goods, wares, merchandise or services
to be offered by the applicant.
   (F)   The personal description of the applicant.
Such an application shall be accompanied by a two inch by two inch (2" x 2")
full face photograph and such other credentials and other evidence of good
moral character and identity of the applicant may be reasonably required by the
City Clerk. (Ord. 749, 1964)
Any person that is registered as a sex offender in any jurisdiction or has had
a felony conviction in any jurisdiction shall be ineligible for a solicitors/
canvassers permit from the City of Carthage. (Ord. 2008-3, 6-24-2008)
3-3-3: FEE:
The fee for registration as a solicitor/canvasser shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a term of five (5) days and the hours of solicitation within the
City of Carthage shall be from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. Charitable organizations shall be exempt from the fee but shall comply
with the hours of solicitation. (Ord. 2013-3, 6-25-2013)
3-3-4: CERTIFICATE:
Each person shall at all times while soliciting or canvassing in the City carry
upon his person the registration certificate and the same shall be exhibited by
such registrant whenever he is required to do so by any police officer or other
person solicited. (Ord. 749, 1964)
3-3-5: HOUSE TO HOUSE CANVASSING, SOLICITING:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of going upon the premises of
another for the purpose of soliciting orders, contributions or information, or
for the purpose of selling or peddling, without the consent or invitation of
the owner or occupant of such premises. The fact that such canvasser, solicitor
or peddler is a resident of the Municipality, or the employee or proprietor of
a business established in the Municipality, shall be prima facie proof that the
owner or occupant of such premises has given the consent required. (Ord. 749,
1964)
3-3-6: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to officers or employees of the
City, County, State or Federal government or any subdivision thereof when on
official business. (Ord. 749, 1964)
3-3-7: ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a registration certificate has been
issued hereunder, to force his way into a home or place of business for the
purpose of solicitation against the will of the person in charge thereof, or to
make a nuisance of himself to the occupant or occupants thereof; and further,
in case any such person so soliciting shall be requested to leave any premises
where he is soliciting business by the person in charge thereof, he shall leave
such premises promptly. It shall be unlawful for any person soliciting business
under a registration certificate, issued hereunder, to resort to any fraud,
cheating or misrepresentation in connection with such solicitation; or to
solicit a sale of anything not specified in his application for a certificate
or to violate any laws of the Federal, State or City governments. (1979 Code)
3-3-8: REVOCATION:
Any such registration may be revoked by the Mayor or Chief of Police because of
any violation by the registrant of this chapter, or of any of the provisions of
this Code, or of any State or Federal law, or whenever the registrant shall
cease to possess the qualifications and character required in this chapter for
the original registration. Such revocation shall be in addition to any fine
imposed hereunder. (1979 Code)
3-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise
provided, shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC CARRIERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Character Of Applicant
3-4-4: Public Carrier Fee
3-4-5: Vehicles
3-4-6: Drivers
3-4-7: Insurance
3-4-8: Bond
3-4-9: Traffic Rules
3-4-10: Unlawful Use
3-4-11: Passengers
3-4-12: Payment Of Fare
3-4-13: Fares
3-4-14: Chauffeur's License
3-4-15: Chauffeur's License Fee
3-4-16: Qualifications
3-4-17: Revocation
3-4-18: Abandonment
3-4-19: Number Of Licenses
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "public carrier" as used in this chapter shall mean and include any
vehicle used to carry passengers for hire but not operating a fixed route.
(1979 Code)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a public carrier in
the Municipality without first having secured a license therefor. Applications
for such license shall be made in writing to the Clerk, and shall state thereon
the name of the applicant, the intended place of business and the number of
public carriers to be operated. If the applicant is a corporation, the names
and addresses of the president and secretary thereof shall be given. (1979
Code)
3-4-3: CHARACTER OF APPLICANT:
No such license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a person of
good character or who has been convicted of a felony; nor shall such license be
issued to or held by any corporation if any other thereof would be ineligible
for a license under the foregoing conditions. (1979 Code)
3-4-4: PUBLIC CARRIER FEE:
The annual fee for such licenses shall be ten dollars fifty cents ($10.50) for
each public carrier operated. Whenever the number of public carriers so
operated shall be increased during the license year, the licensee shall notify
the Clerk of such change and shall pay the additional fee.
Such fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by this Code and
the Clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the number of public
carriers covered by each license. Such tag or sticker shall be displayed in a
prominent place on each public carrier while it is in use and may be
transferred to any public carrier put into service to replace one withdrawn
from service.
The licensee shall notify the Clerk of the motor number and State license
number of each public carrier operated and of the corresponding Municipal tag
or sticker number. (1979 Code)
3-4-5: VEHICLES:
No public carrier shall be operated unless it bears a State license duly
issued; and no such public carrier shall be operated unless it is equipped with
proper brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror, and windshield
wipers in good condition. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his
Deputy to inspect every public carrier, each ninety (90) days, to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
Each public carrier, while operated, shall have on each side, in letters
readable from a distance of twenty feet (20'), the name of the licensee
operating it. If more than one public carrier is operated by the licensee, each
public carrier shall be designated by a different number, and such number shall
so appear on each side of such public carrier. (1979 Code)
3-4-6: DRIVERS:
No person shall drive a public carrier or be hired or permitted to do so,
unless he is duly licensed as a chauffeur.
It shall be unlawful for any driver of a public carrier, while on duty, to
drink any intoxicating liquor, or to use any profane or obscene language, to
shout or call to prospective passengers, or to disturb the peace in any way.
(1979 Code)
3-4-7: INSURANCE:
No public carrier shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond or public
liability policy as required by the Statutes of the State of Illinois. (1979
Code)
3-4-8: BOND:
Every person taking out a public carrier license as provided in this chapter,
before operating any public carrier, shall execute a bond to the City in the
sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each vehicle, with two (2) or more
sureties to be approved by the Mayor, conditioned for the faithful performance
of his duties as owner or operator of said public carrier, and that he will
account for and pay all damages arising from any neglect on his part or on the
part of any employee while so engaged in the operation of the public carrier
business. (1979 Code)
3-4-9: TRAFFIC RULES:
It shall be the duty of every driver of a public carrier to obey all traffic
rules established by statute or provisions of this Code 1 . (1979 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this Code.
3-4-10: UNLAWFUL USE:
It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any public carrier to be used in the
perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor. (1979 Code)
3-4-11: PASSENGERS:
It shall be the duty of the driver of any public carrier to accept as a
passenger any person who seeks to so use the public carrier, provided such
person is not intoxicated and conducts himself in an orderly manner. (1979
Code)
3-4-12: PAYMENT OF FARE:
It shall be unlawful for a passenger to fail or refuse to pay the lawful fare
at the termination of a trip. (1979 Code)
3-4-13: FARES:
Any person operating a public carrier within the City shall establish and file
with the City Clerk a rate for the hauling of passengers, and said rates shall
be uniform as to all persons. The rates shall also be posted in each so as to
be plainly visible to the passengers. No extra charge shall be made for baggage
or parcels the size of which permits them to be carried in the public carrier
by the passenger. (1979 Code)
3-4-14: CHAUFFEUR'S LICENSE:
No person shall drive a public carrier unless he shall have secured a license
therefor as herein provided. (1979 Code)
3-4-15: CHAUFFEUR'S LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a chauffeur's license shall be one dollar ($1.00). (1979
Code)
3-4-16: QUALIFICATIONS:
No such license shall be issued to any person who is not competent to operate a
motor vehicle or who is not familiar with the traffic laws and Code provisions.
The Chief of Police shall examine each applicant for a chauffeur's license to
determine the competency of the applicant, and no such license shall be issued
excepting on certificate of the Chief of Police that the applicant has
demonstrated his ability to operate a motor vehicle as required herein. (1979
Code)
3-4-17: REVOCATION:
The Mayor may revoke any chauffeur's license for repeated violations of traffic
laws or Code provisions regulating the conduct of such drivers. (1979 Code)
3-4-18: ABANDONMENT:
If any licensee shall fail to operate all or any of the public carriers covered
by such license for a period of ten (10) consecutive days, the certificate may
be revoked or modified by the Mayor so as to cover and authorize only the
number of public carriers actually operated. Failure to operate any public
carriers by a licensee for a period of ten (10) consecutive days shall be
grounds for revocation of the public carrier license. (1979 Code)
3-4-19: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of public carrier licenses to be issued is limited to four (4). Each
licensee shall have the right to operate as many as ten (10) public carriers
under the one license. As long as the population of the City remains at ten
thousand (10,000) or under, the limitation shall apply. In the event that the
population in the City shall exceed ten thousand (10,000) the number of
licenses may increase not to exceed one license for each one thousand (1,000)
population in excess of ten thousand (10,000). (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-5-2: Service Occupation Tax
3-5-3: Use Tax
3-5-4: Nonhome Rule Occupation Taxes
3-5-1: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the City at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
Every such person engaged in such business in the City shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by section three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon Persons
Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for
Use or Consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month. (Ord. 69-14, 8-
4-1969)
3-5-2: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this Municipality in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-
11-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
Every supplier or serviceman required to account for Municipal Service
Occupation Tax for the benefit of this Municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by section nine of the "Service Occupation Tax Act", approved
July 10, 1961, as amended.
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 69-15, 8-4-1969)
3-5-3: USE TAX:
There is hereby imposed a tax in accordance with the provisions of section 8-
11-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code upon the privilege of using in the
Municipality any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of Illinois government, the tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%)
of the selling price of such tangible property with the selling price to have
the meaning as defined in the Use Tax Act approved July 14, 1955.
Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. (Ord. 74-9,
10-21-1974)
3-5-4: NONHOME RULE OCCUPATION TAXES:
   (A)   Imposition Of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of
tangible personal property titled and registered with an agency of this State's
government, at retail in the City of Carthage at the rate of one-half (1/2) of
one percent (1%) as gross receipts from such sale made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in this Municipality in the business of making sales of
service, at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) of the selling price
of all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen as an incident
to a sale of service. Such "Nonhome Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax"
and the "Nonhome Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax" shall not be applicable
to the sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food
that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics.
The imposition of these Nonhome Rule Taxes is in accordance with the provisions
of sections 5/8-11-1.3 and 5/8-11-1.4, respectively, of the "Illinois Municipal
Code" 1 .
   (B)   Collection And Enforcement: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Department
of Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce provisions of this
section.
   (C)   Certified Copy: The City Clerk of the City of Carthage is hereby
directed to file a certified copy of the ordinance codified herein and a
certification that the ordinance codified herein received referendum approval
with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before October 1, 2003.
   (D)   Effective Date: This section shall take effect on the next January 1,
(January 1, 2004) following the adoption and filing of the ordinance codified
herein with the Department of Revenue. (Ord. 2003-2, 5-13-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3 and 5/8-11-1.4.
CHAPTER 6
ALARMS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Fire Notifications System Nuisance Alarms
3-6-1-1: Fire Notification Fees
3-6-2: Police Notification System Nuisance Alarms
3-6-2-1: Police Notification Fees
3-6-1: FIRE NOTIFICATIONS SYSTEM NUISANCE ALARMS:
The Fire Department of the City of Carthage shall impose no charge for
responding to nuisance alarms to businesses within the City with automated fire
notifications systems for the first three (3) such nuisance alarms in any
twelve (12) consecutive month period.
It shall be the responsibility of any business in the City of Carthage
utilizing an automated fire notification system to provide the name and a
twenty four (24) hour call number of their contact person to the Hancock County
911 Center. It will be the responsibility of the business to have a contact
person on the scene within thirty (30) minutes. (Ord. 2010-7, 10-26-2010)
3-6-1-1: FIRE NOTIFICATION FEES:
Any business in the City of Carthage utilizing an automated fire notification
system generating more than three (3) nuisance alarms in any twelve (12)
consecutive month period shall be assessed a fee in the sum of four hundred
fifty dollars ($450.00) for each nuisance alarm in which the Fire Department
proceeds to the scene, exceeding three (3) nuisance alarms in any twelve (12)
consecutive month period.
If the contact person is not at the scene within thirty (30) minutes of the
Fire Department arriving at the scene, a fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) will be assessed.
The Fire Chief shall notify the City Clerk of occurrences of such nuisance
alarms, and the City Clerk shall maintain the records thereof and for any such
nuisance alarms exceeding three (3) days in any twelve (12) consecutive month
period, shall bill appropriate charges within seven (7) days from the time they
are incurred. (Ord. 2010-7, 10-26-2010)
3-6-2: POLICE NOTIFICATION SYSTEM NUISANCE ALARMS:
The Police Department of the City of Carthage shall impose no charge for
responding to nuisance alarms to businesses within the City with the automated
police notification system for the first three (3) such nuisance alarms in any
twelve (12) consecutive month period.
It shall be the responsibility of any business in the City of Carthage
utilizing an automated police notification system to provide the name and a
twenty four (24) hour call number of their contact person to the Hancock County
911 Center. It will be the responsibility of the business to have a contact
person on the scene within thirty (30) minutes. (Ord. 2010-7, 10-26-2010)
3-6-2-1: POLICE NOTIFICATION FEES:
Any business in the City of Carthage utilizing an automated police notification
system generating more than three (3) nuisance alarms in any twelve (12)
consecutive month period shall be assessed a fee in the sum of four hundred
fifty dollars ($450.00) for each nuisance alarm in which the Police Department
proceeds to the scene, exceeding three (3) nuisance alarms in any twelve (12)
consecutive month period.
If the contact person is not at the scene within thirty (30) minutes of the
Police Department arriving at the scene, a fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) will be assessed.
The Police Chief shall notify the City Clerk of all occurrences of such
nuisance alarms, and the City Clerk shall maintain the records thereof and for
any such nuisance alarms exceeding three (3) in any twelve (12) consecutive
month period, and shall bill appropriate charges within seven (7) days from the
time they are incurred. (Ord. 2010-7, 10-26-2010)
CHAPTER 7
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-7-1: Video Gaming Terminals
3-7-1: VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
Gaming terminals for which a license or permit has been issued by the Illinois
Gaming Board pursuant to the Illinois Gaming Act 1 , as amended from time to
time, are hereby authorized within the City of Carthage, so long as such video
gaming terminals are operated in compliance with all requirements of the
Illinois Video Gaming Act and all applicable rules and regulations of the
Illinois Gaming Board. An annual fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per video
gaming terminal shall be paid to the City by the terminal operator. (Ord. 2012-
4, 7-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-8-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-8-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-8-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City of Carthage at the
rate of three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the
course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-22. (Ord. 2019-10, 12-10-2019)
3-8-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   (A)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue. Any tax required to be collected pursuant
to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such retailer
and required to be remitted to the Department shall constitute a debt owed by
the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their
seller’s tax liability hereunder by separate stating that tax as an additional
charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any
state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2019-10, 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 9
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
3-9-3: Public Nuisance Declared
3-9-4: Violations
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
                                        A cultivation center, craft grower,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS             processing organization, infuser
ESTABLISHMENT:                          organization, dispensing organization
                                        or transporting organization.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, dry, cure and package
                                        cannabis and perform other necessary
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:        activities to make cannabis available
                                        for sale at a dispensing organization
                                        or use at a processing organization,
                                        per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
                                        Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may be
                                        amended from time to time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, process, transport and
                                        perform necessary activities to provide
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:  cannabis and cannabis-infused products
                                        to licensed cannabis business
                                        establishments, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027,
                                        as it may be amended from time to time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Financial and
                                        Professional Regulation to acquire
                                        cannabis from licensed cannabis
                                        business establishments for the purpose
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING           of selling or dispensing cannabis,
ORGANIZATION:                           cannabis-infused products, cannabis
                                        seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                        supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                        registered medical cannabis patients
                                        and caregivers, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027,
                                        as it maybe amended from time to time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        directly incorporate cannabis or
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION cannabis concentrate into a product
OR INFUSER:                             formulation to produce a cannabis-
                                        infused product, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027,
                                        as it may be amended from time to time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        either extract constituent chemicals or
                                        compounds to produce cannabis
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING           concentrate or incorporate cannabis or
ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR:              cannabis concentrate into a product
                                        formulation to produce a cannabis
                                        product, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may
                                        be amended from time to time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        An organization or business that is
                                        licensed by the Illinois Department of
                                        Agriculture to transport cannabis on
                                        behalf of a cannabis business
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING         establishment or a community college
ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER:            licensed under the Community College
                                        Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
                                        Program, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may
                                        be amended from time to time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        Any person, firm, corporation,
                                        association, club, society or other
PERSON:                                 organization, including any owner,
                                        manager, proprietor, employee,
                                        volunteer or agent. (Ord. 2019-11, 12-
                                        10-2019)
 
3-9-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in the
City of Carthage. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be
operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the City of Carthage
of any of the following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor;
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter. (Ord.
2019-11, 12-10-2019)
3-9-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the City of
Carthage in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord.
2019-11, 12-10-2019)
3-9-4: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and are subject to a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
day of violation. (Ord. 2019-11, 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 10
TRANSIENT FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Mobile Food Vendors
3-10-2: Prohibited Conduct
3-10-3: Criminal Penalty
3-10-4: Requirements
3-10-1: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS:
   A.   Mobile food vendor operational requirements. Mobile food vendors
conducting business within the city must comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   All transient food vendors must abide by all federal, state and
local laws, rules and regulations. Mobile food vendors must operate in
compliance with all state laws and regulations and must maintain continuous
licensure with the Hancock County Health Department.
      2.   Mobile food vendors may vend only on private property with the
consent of the property owner and may not encroach into any right-of-way
adjoining the property with the mobile food vending establishment or utilize
any accessory items such as tables, chairs, etc. Mobile food vendors may not
operate on city property or within the right-of way. If requested by the city,
a mobile food vendor shall promptly provide proof of a property owner's consent
to operate on the property.
      3.   Mobile food vending is allowed as a necessary use in the following
situations:
         a.   On a parcel with a commercial or industrial use;
         b.   On a construction site to fulfill on-site needs;
         c.   In a residential zoning District if in conjunction with a special
event held at a non-residential structure;
         d.   As otherwise authorized by the City of Carthage.
      4.   The vendor shall not conduct any vending in a way that causes
congestion or blocking of vehicle or pedestrian traffic or emergency lanes.
Each vendor has an affirmative and independent duty to determine the safety and
suitability of any particular location of operation and to operate in a manner
reasonably calculated to avoid and prevent harm to people and to other
vehicles.
      5.   All areas within and surrounding a mobile food service establishment
must be maintained in a clean, neat, and sanitary condition. A mobile food
vendor shall provide Uprivate trash bin for public use with a capacity of no
less 32 gallons each which shall be removed upon departing the location and the
contents disposed of properly by the vendor. Trash bins shall be anchored or
otherwise secured upright. A mobile food vendor shall remove all litter
generated by its operation at the vendor's expense. The mobile food vendor
shall not place trash or litter from the mobile food vending establishment in
any unauthorized private or city receptacle.
      6.   Umbrellas and canopies must be designed to be secure during windy
conditions. Umbrellas and canopies must be at least seven (7) feet above the
ground when open and may not protrude into the right-of-way.
      7.   All mobile food vendors must ensure that individuals with
disabilities have comparable access to mobile food vending establishment. If
existing designs cannot be modified to be accessible to people with
disabilities, the method of providing service must be modified to become
accessible.
      8.   A mobile food vending establishment cannot be permanently located on
any property and cannot function as a permanent structure.
      9.   Mobile food vendors may not vend alcohol. (Ord. 2022-3, 5-24-2022)
3-10-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
No mobile food vendor shall:
   A.   Vend in the public right-of-way, including on any public street, alley,
sidewalk, or in any on-street parking space, except in the following situation:
      1.   In conjunction with a special event that is approved by the city, if
applicable, so long as the special event includes the closure of the public
right-of-way and consents to the presence of the mobile food vendor; or
      2.   In limited situations with the approval of the City Council of the
City of Carthage;
   B.   Operate a mobile food establishment within 300 feet of any event held
in the Central Business District without obtaining written permission form the
event sponsor and the City;
   C.   Place any object that blocks any pedestrian pathway or ADA access;
   D.   Utilize any signage other than signage that is affixed to the exterior
of the mobile food vending establishment other than 1 sandwich board sign may
be allowed;
   E.   Project audible amplified music or sound or make any unreasonably loud
noise for the purpose of advertising or attracting attention to the mobile food
vending establishment. (Ord. 2022-3, 5-24-2022)
3-10-3: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each offense
plus costs to the city including attorneys fees. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2022-3, 5-24-2022)
3-10-4: REQUIREMENTS:
Each mobile food vendor shall apply for a permit issued by the City Clerk. The
City Clerk shall issue a permit upon receiving from the mobile food vendor
applicant copies of:
   A.   The vendors Hancock County Health Department permit;
   B.   The vendor's Illinois Sales Tax ID number;
   C.   Proof of Insurance;
   D.   Payment of a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a one-year permit. The
permit must be always prominently displayed while vending. (Ord. 2022-3, 5-24-
2022)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes   1
Dangerous Buildings   2
Moving Buildings   3
Flood Damage Prevention   4
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Codes Adopted
4-1-2: Enforcement
4-1-3: Modifications
4-1-4: Appeals
4-1-5: Permits
4-1-5-1: Demolition Permits
4-1-6: Fees
4-1-7: Conflicting Provisions
4-1-8: Penalties
4-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   (A)   Building Code: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, that certain Building Code known as the "Uniform Building Code",
copyrighted by the International Conference of Building Officials, the latest
edition, as amended thereof, of which not less than three (3) copies have been
and now are filed in the Office of the Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and other
structures.
   (B)   Uniform Housing Code: In order to provide minimum requirements for the
protection of life, limb, health, property, safety and welfare of the general
public and the owners and occupants of residential buildings, there is hereby
adopted by the City that certain code known as the "Uniform Housing Code", the
latest edition, published by the International Conference of Building Officials
which provisions and regulations thereof shall apply to all buildings or
portions thereof used, or designed or intended to be used, for human
habitation.
   (C)   Plumbing Code: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing
minimum standards of design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing
hereafter installed, altered or repaired and to establish methods of procedure
within the limits of the City that certain Plumbing Code known as the "National
Plumbing Code", the latest copyright edition thereof, and the whole thereof of
which not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the Office
of the Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation,
alteration or repairing of plumbing.
   (D)   Electrical Code: All electric wiring, installation of electrical
fixtures, apparatus, or electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or
power, or other electrical work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any
way connected to, any building or structure within the limits of this City
shall be in conformity with the provisions set forth in the latest edition of
the "National Electrical Code", as amended, recommended by the American
Insurance Association for electrical wiring and apparatus, which is hereby
adopted and incorporated as a part of this Code as fully as if set out at
length herein, three (3) copies of said Electrical Code shall at all times be
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Wherever the word "Municipality" is used in the codes hereby adopted, it shall
be held to mean the City of Carthage. (1979 Code)
4-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The codes hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Codes Enforcement Officer who
shall be appointed as provided by these codes, who is authorized by this
section to make inspections to determine the condition of dwellings located
within jurisdiction of this chapter and who is to generally administer the
enforcement of this chapter in all respects. (1979 Code)
4-1-3: MODIFICATIONS:
The Codes Enforcement Officer shall have power to modify any of the provisions
of the codes hereby adopted upon application in writing by the owner or lessee,
or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the codes, provided that the spirit of the
codes shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision
of the Codes Enforcement Officer thereon shall be entered upon the records to
be kept by the Codes Enforcement Officer and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant. (Ord. 69-3, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code)
4-1-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the Codes Enforcement Officer shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of any of the codes do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the
codes have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Codes Enforcement Officer to the City Council within
thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord. 69-3, 5-5-1969;
amd. 1979 Code)
4-1-5: PERMITS:
Prior to the commencement of the construction of a new building, structure or
parking lot, or the enlargement or alteration of a building or structure, the
owner or lessor, or his duly authorized agent shall file a written application
for a building permit in the Office of the City Clerk, which application shall
state the address at which such building, enlargement or alteration of a
building or structure or such parking lot shall be made, the type of building,
enlargement or alteration, whether electrical or plumbing work shall be
performed, the date when actual work shall be commenced and the estimated cost
of the materials and labor to be expended in connection with such building,
enlargement or alteration. There shall be attached to said written application
a detailed statement of specifications and plans that shall comply with the
codes referred to in section
4-1-1 of this chapter. Upon approval, the Codes Enforcement Officer of the City
shall issue to each applicant, under the terms of this chapter, a permit for
the construction of a new building or structure or the enlargement or
alteration of an existing building or structure, such permit to be in the form
as designated by the Utilities Committee of the City Council. (Ord. 69-3, 5-5-
1969; amd. 1979 Code)
In connection with the construction of a new building, structure or parking
lot, or the enlargement, alteration or removal of a building or structure, the
person obtaining a permit as required by this section shall, more than twenty
four (24) hours prior to the tapping or disconnecting of any water or sewer
main within the City, give oral notice to the Superintendent of the Waterworks
and Sewerage Department of the City of the time and date that such water or
sewer main shall be tapped into or disconnected from. Any person tapping into
or disconnecting from such water or sewer main shall comply with the provisions
set forth in section
 8-1-2 of this Code. (Ord. 806, 9-5-1967; amd. 1979 Code)
4-1-5-1: DEMOLITION PERMITS:
Prior to the commencement of the demolition of any building or structure, the
owner or lessor, or his duly authorized agent shall file a written application
for a demolition permit in the Office of the City Clerk, which application
shall state the address of the building or structure to be demolished, the type
of building or structure, whether the building or structure is served by water
and/or sewer, and the date when actual demolition work shall commence. Upon
payment of the prescribed fee, the application shall be approved by the Codes
Enforcement Officer who shall issue a permit for the demolition, such permit to
be in the form as designated by the Utilities Committee of the City Council.
All electrical and gas utilities shall be terminated and disconnected by the
utility company at the applicant's request and expense, and water service to
the building or structure shall be shut off and approved by the Water
Superintendent before demolition may commence.
The application shall require the applicant to complete the demolition and
cleanup of the property within six (6) months of the date of the application,
shall require the applicant to disconnect any water service to the building or
structure and have it capped at the main by a licensed plumber at applicant's
expense, and shall require the applicant to disconnect any sewer service to the
building or structure and have it capped at the main by a licensed plumber at
applicant's expense, within six (6) months of issuance of the permit.
In the event the applicant intends to rebuild, the Codes Enforcement Officer
may extend the time to cap the water and sewer an additional twelve (12) months
from the date of the application.
The fee for a demolition permit shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) in the
event there is neither water nor sewer to the building or structure, and one
hundred dollars ($100.00) if there is either water or sewer to the building or
structure. (Ord. 2011-6, 9-27-2011)
4-1-6: FEES:
At the time of the issuance of a building permit under this chapter, there
shall be paid to the City Clerk fees as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   For the erection, alteration and repair of a structure or building:
 Value Fee
                        Value             Fee
                        Up to $100,000.00 $ 75.00
Single-family residence Up to $250,000.00 150.00
                        Up to $500,000.00 300.00
                        Over $500,000.00  0.06% of value
                        Up to $100,000.00 $100.00
Multi-family residence  Up to $250,000.00 200.00
                        Up to $500,000.00 400.00
                        Over $500,000.00  0.08% of value
 
   (B)   Residential accessory/auxiliary structures:
 
Garage or similar structure, deck, patio, open porch or carport added to
existing residence, inground or "semipermanent" pool, "3-season" rooms,  $25.00
perimeter fences, permanent child activity center, minor modification to
entrance or window box
Small storage shed or playhouse (on skids), portable carport, sidewalk,
driveway, pet containment or pad, small area fence, step replacement     10.00
with improvement
 
   (C)   Commercial/industrial:
 
Value               Fee
Up to $100,000.00   $ 150.00
Up to $250,000.00   300.00
Up to $500,000.00   500.00
Up to $1,000,000.00 1,000.00
Over $1,000,000.00  0.1% of value
 
   (D)   Commercial accessory/auxiliary structures:
 
Small storage/implement building; outdoor employee break area; and $50.00
similar uses (under $20,000.00 value)
 
   (E)   Plumbing fees:
 
Residences                      $5.00
Apartments                      5.00
 For each additional apartment 2.50
Commercial bathroom             5.00
 For each additional bathroom  2.50
 
   (F)   Electrical system:
 
Up to 200 amps          $ 5.00
Up to 400 amps          16.00
Up to 600 amps          25.00
Up to 800 amps          35.00
Up to 1,200 amps        50.00
In excess of 1,200 amps 75.00
 
(Ord. 2008-5, 7-22-2008)
4-1-7: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with
the provisions of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or
code existing on the effective date hereof, the provision which establishes the
higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of
the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with the provisions of any other ordinance or code on
the effective date hereof which establishes a lower standard for the promotion
and protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are
hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict
with this chapter. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this chapter should be declared invalid for any reason, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect; and to this end the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable. (Ord. 69-3, 5-5-1969)
4-1-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of the codes hereby adopted or fail
to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specification or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or
permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall
fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the City Council
or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). The imposition of
one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violation or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 69-3, 5-5-1969; amd. 2018 Code)
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions.
An occupancy permit shall not be granted to any person in violation hereof.
(Ord. 69-3, 5-5-1969)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Dangerous Buildings; Nuisance
4-2-2: Report Dangerous Buildings
4-2-3: Proceedings
4-2-4: Action To Prevent Accident
4-2-5: Building May Be Closed
4-2-6: Repairing
4-2-7: Penalty
4-2-1: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; NUISANCE:
Any building or part thereof, or any structure of like nature, in a condition
dangerous to the occupants, or those passing, or to any adjacent building, by
reason of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective heating
apparatus, violations from machinery, defective flues, confined or cramped
stairways, insufficient exits, narrow or dark passageways, or which is unsafe
or dangerous for the purpose for which it is used or intended to be used, or is
in danger of being set on fire from any defect in its construction or is
especially dangerous in case of fire by reason of its dilapidated condition or
defective construction, or from other causes, or which may be prejudicial to
the public health or the health of the inhabitants of the neighborhood, shall
be deemed and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. (1979 Code)
4-2-2: REPORT DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Codes Enforcement Officer, Fire
Chief, Health Officer, or complaint shall be made to them or any of them in
writing by any two (2) reputable citizens, that any building, walls or
structure within the Village is in such dangerous condition as described in the
preceding section, said Codes Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief or Health
Officer, as the case may be, shall forthwith report the same to the City
Council. (1979 Code)
4-2-3: PROCEEDINGS:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Codes Enforcement Officer,
Police Chief, Health Officer or complainant that a building be in a dangerous
and unsafe condition, the Mayor or any official or employee designated by the
City Council shall notify in writing the owner or owners thereof, directing
said owner or owners to put such building in a safe condition or demolish it.
Where, upon diligent search the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners
of any such building shall not be ascertainable, such notice shall be mailed to
the person or persons in whose name such real estate was last assessed.
If, after fifteen (15) days subsequent to the giving of such notice, said owner
or owners fail to put such building in a safe condition or to demolish it, the
Mayor or any official or employee designated by the City Council shall so
notify the City Attorney requesting the City Attorney to apply on behalf of the
City to the Circuit Court of Hancock County, Illinois, for an order authorizing
the City to demolish or repair or to cause the demolition or repair of said
building.
The costs of such demolition or repair shall be recoverable from the owner or
owners of such real estate and shall be a lien thereon as provided in chapter
65, section 5/11-31-1 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes in such cases as made
and provided. (1979 Code)
4-2-4: ACTION TO PREVENT ACCIDENT:
In case the Codes Enforcement Officer or Health Officer finds any building or
part of a building in such condition as to endanger life or liable to cause
serious accident, and that such danger may be averted by the immediate
application of precautionary measures, said officers or either of them shall
have and exercise the power (without the preliminary direction of the City
Council), to take such precautionary measures as in his opinion may be
necessary to render any building or part thereof safe; provided, the owner,
lessee, occupant or agent of said building refuses or neglects to take such
precautionary measures after being notified so to do by said officers or any of
them. The decision and order of the said officers or any of them, as the case
may be, shall be absolute and final. (1979 Code)
4-2-5: BUILDING MAY BE CLOSED:
The Codes Enforcement Officer, Health Officer or Fire Chief may order that no
person shall be permitted to enter, occupy or use a dangerous building or any
portion thereof until the same shall have been made safe; and may post such
order in a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such building. No person
shall enter, occupy or use (except for the purpose of repairing and making
safe) any building or portion thereof after the posting of such notice until
such building or portion thereof shall have been made safe.
If the building or portion thereof found dangerous shall be devoted to any
purpose requiring a license, the Mayor may suspend the license pending the
period of making repairs; and he may revoke the license in case of failure on
the part of the owner or party having an interest in such unsafe building or
portion thereof to make such repairs without delay and at their expense. (1979
Code)
4-2-6: REPAIRING:
It shall not be lawful to occupy for human habitation any building which is
declared by the Health Officer to be unfit for such habitation by reason of
defective sanitary conditions until such conditions have been remedied and the
premises approved by said Health Officer as fit for occupancy.
If work has been done and expense incurred by the City in connection with
dangerous buildings a bill of cost shall be rendered by the City to the owner,
lessee, occupant or agent of the property. The City may refuse to issue a
permit for the reconstruction, alteration or repair of any building or portion
thereof on the property involved until the expenditure incurred by the City on
account of the work and material supplied has been repaid. (1979 Code)
4-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or permitting any dangerous
building or any other man-made structure to remain in a dangerous condition
shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) or more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Permit Required
4-3-2: Approval; Fee
4-3-3: Bond
4-3-4: Lights And Warnings
4-3-5: Wires, Cutting
4-3-6: Fire Alarm Wires
4-3-7: Damage To City Property
4-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall move any building on, through or over any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place in the City without having obtained a permit
therefor from the Code Enforcement Officer. Applications for such permit shall
be made in writing and shall state thereon the purposed route and the number of
days it is intended that the building shall occupy any portion of any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. (Ord. 89-2, 6-27-1989)
4-3-2: APPROVAL; FEE:
Upon approval of the intended route by the Code Enforcement Officer, a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) for each day or fraction thereof that it is intended that
the building shall occupy any such portion of any such public place, shall be
paid to the Clerk and the permit issued. Additional payment of twenty dollars
($20.00) for each day or fraction thereof over and above the time stated on the
permit during which any building shall occupy any such public place shall be
paid. (Ord. 89-2, 6-27-1989)
4-3-3: BOND:
Every person applying for a permit under this chapter shall submit with his
application a cash bond with a lawful corporate surety to be approved by the
Code Enforcement Officer, conditioned on his compliance with all the provisions
of this chapter, and agreeing to pay and holding the City harmless from any
claim which may be made against it by reason of the occupation of any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place by the building or structure moved. (Ord.
89-2, 6-27-1989)
4-3-4: LIGHTS AND WARNINGS:
Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is being
moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed, as may be directed by the
Police Department, so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that
portion of the street so blocked.
The persons moving any building through the streets shall keep warning signs
and lights on the building so as to guard against any person or vehicle from
colliding with it. (1979 Code)
4-3-5: WIRES, CUTTING:
Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires or cables of a public
utility in moving a building, the terms of any special or franchise ordinance
governing shall apply and the bond therein specified shall be given. If no such
terms apply then the Mayor shall estimate the expense of fixing the wires and
the bond to be given to cover such expense. (1979 Code)
4-3-6: FIRE ALARM WIRES:
When any moving building shall approach any fire alarm wire or pole, which
shall be endangered by the removal of such building or structure, it shall be
the duty of the mover to notify the Fire Chief at least six (6) hours before
reaching such wire or pole so that they may be removed or cared for by the City
authorities. (1979 Code)
4-3-7: DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY:
Any persons moving any buildings through the streets of the City shall be
liable to the City for any damage caused to the streets, sidewalks, City
utilities or other City property caused thereby. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Base Flood Elevation
4-4-4: Duties Of The City Code Enforcement Officer
4-4-5: Development Permit
4-4-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
4-4-7: Protecting Buildings
4-4-8: Subdivision Requirements
4-4-9: Public Health And Other Standards
4-4-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
4-4-11: Variances
4-4-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
4-4-13: Penalty
4-4-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this City of
Carthage by the Illinois Municipal Code 1  in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make Federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2.
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
flood. The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
 4-4-3 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to real estate including, but not
necessarily limited to:
   (A)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   (B)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   (C)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   (D)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   (E)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   (F)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   (G)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Carthage, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Carthage, or that may be annexed
into the City of Carthage, that are subject to inundation by the base flood.
The floodplains of the City of Carthage are generally identified as such on
panel number(s) 0295 E and 0315 E of the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of
Hancock County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
October 16, 2009. Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding as
identified by the community. The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated
Hancock County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of
Carthage or that may be annexed into the City of Carthage are generally
identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared for Hancock County
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated October 16, 2009.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodways for each of the floodplains of the City of Carthage
shall be according to the best data available from Federal, State, or other
sources.
   FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   (C)   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR: Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of section
4-4-7 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
   NFIP: National Flood Insurance Program.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
   (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SFHA: See definition of floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: See definition of "building".
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of repetitive loss).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   (A)   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   (B)   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that aleration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done. The term does
not include:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   (B)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required Federal, State, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the City of Carthage
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Countywide Flood
Insurance Study of Hancock County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains delineated as an
"A Zone" on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Hancock County shall be
according to the best data available from Federal, State or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the
applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Hancock County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the City of Carthage, or that may be annexed into the City of Carthage,
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance
Study of Hancock County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated September 5, 2008. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-4: DUTIES OF THE CITY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The City Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the City of Carthage meet the
requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the City Code Enforcement Officer
shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with section
4-4-5 of this chapter;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
4-4-6 of this chapter;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
4-4-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
4-4-8 of this chapter;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
4-4-9 of this chapter;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
4-4-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
4-4-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, State, and Federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with State and Federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of State and Federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the City Code Enforcement Officer. The City Code
Enforcement Officer shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
4-4-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the City Code
Enforcement Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The City Code Enforcement Officer shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification.
The City Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other Federal, State, and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
City Code Enforcement Officer shall not issue a permit unless all other
Federal, State, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources Statewide permit number 2:
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 foot, and
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the State of Illinois and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit.
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide permit number 3:
         (a)   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide permit number 4:
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to pre-construction grades
and re-vegetated.
         (f)   All Illinois Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety
Code, and Federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 5:
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-quarter (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
Corps of Engineers.
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet
(10').
         (c)   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow.
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers.
      5.   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 6:
         (a)   The following activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit:
            (1)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or
septic tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
            (2)   The construction of light poles, sign posts, and similar
structures.
            (3)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
            (4)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
            (5)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this Statewide permit.
            (6)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are
made to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 7:
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures.
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 8:
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act 1 , shall be provided
with shut-off valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 9:
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban
areas are defined as: areas of the State where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in subsection (A)8(a) of
this section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural
areas provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protections Act 2 .
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank.
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full- width
and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s), and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, State, and
Federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 10:
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         (b)   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and
         (d)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of the bank of the stream channel.
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 11:
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel, and
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and down stream of the site.
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross-
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of streambank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 12:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure, and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA Flood Insurance Study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's Statewide permit number 9 (Minor Shoreline, Channel and
Streambank Protection Activities) or Statewide permit number 11 (Minor
Maintenance Dredging Activities).
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 13:
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required Federal, State and local
authorizations.
         (b)   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles in adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition
number 3 of this Statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure.
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from State floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in subsection (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 2. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
4-4-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
4-4-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in section
4-4-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation,
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation,
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure,
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters,
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation,
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage,
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed,
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy,
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade,
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade,
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
(4') at any point,
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event,
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection (B) of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code section 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection (D) of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck,
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times,
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches,
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling,
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet,
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated,
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain,
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation,
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate State and/or Federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The City Council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
4-4-6 and
4-4-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
4-4-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
4-4-6 and
4-4-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
4-4-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      4.   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-
22-2009)
4-4-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the City of Carthage shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council.
The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain,
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted,
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary,
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance,
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities,
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other State and Federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of
section
4-4-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
4-4-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
4-4-6 and
 4-4-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the City of Carthage or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009)
4-4-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Code Enforcement Officer
may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
The Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The City of Carthage shall make application to the Circuit Court for
an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order
as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter, (Ord.
2009-15, 9-22-2009)
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) or more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-2009; amd. 2018
Code)
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The City of Carthage shall record a notice of violation on the title
of the property.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City of Carthage from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-
22-2009)
4-4-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the City Council
to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program including:
the prior floodplain ordinance. However, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program.
Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance
easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2009-15, 9-22-
2009)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
Fire Prevention Code   1
General Fire Regulations   2
Fire Department   3
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
5-1-2: Enforcement
5-1-3: Storage Of Explosives, Limits
5-1-4: Amendments
5-1-5: Modifications
5-1-6: Appeals
5-1-7: Conflicting Provisions
5-1-8: Penalties
5-1-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the "Fire Prevention Code", adopted by
the National Fire Protection Agency, the latest edition thereof, as amended,
and the whole thereof, which code not less than three (3) copies have been and
now are filed in the Office of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out in length herein, and from the
effective date hereof, provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the City. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code)
Wherever the word "Municipality" is used in the code hereby adopted, it shall
be held to mean the City of Carthage. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969)
5-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department
of the City. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969)
5-1-3: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES, LIMITS:
The limits referred to in section 12.6 of the code hereby adopted, in which
storage of explosive and blasting agents is prohibited, the limits referred to
in section 16.22 of the code hereby adopted in which storage of Class I liquid
in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, the limits referred to in section
21.6 of the code hereby adopted, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum
gas is restricted are hereby established as follows:
All that part of the City of Carthage except an area within eight hundred feet
(800') from the perimeter boundary of the City. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969)
5-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
The code hereby adopted is amended and changed in the following respects:
Wherever reference is made to the Chief of the Fire Protection Bureau, it shall
be deemed to mean the Chief of the Fire Department of the City.
(Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969)
5-1-5: MODIFICATIONS:
The Chief of the Fire Department of the City shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the code hereby adopted upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided
that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or
allowed and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department of the City
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Fire Department and a signed
copy shall be furnished the applicant. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969)
5-1-6: APPEALS:
Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department of the City shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City
Council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord.
69-2, 5-5-1969)
5-1-7: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with
the provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code
existing on the effective date hereof, the provision which establishes the
higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of
the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with the provision of any other ordinance or code on
the effective date hereof which establishes a lower standard for the promotion
and protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are
hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict
with this chapter. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this chapter should be declared invalid for any reason, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect; and to this end the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969)
5-1-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of the code hereby adopted or fail
to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to
comply with such an order as modified by the City Council or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each
and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violation or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969; amd. 2018 Code)
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 69-2, 5-5-1969)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Fire Limits Established
5-2-2: Open Burning
5-2-1: FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
All that portion of the City embraced within the following limits is hereby
established as the "fire limits" of the City: The public or court house square;
lots one, two, three, four, five, six, seven and eight of block eleven; lots
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven and eight of block seventeen; lots one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven and eight of block twenty five; lots one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven and eight of block nineteen; lots one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven and eight of block twenty four; lots one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven and eight of block twenty six; lots one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven and eight of block ten; lots one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven and eight of block twelve, all in the original town, now
City of Carthage. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908)
5-2-2: OPEN BURNING:
   (A)   Definitions:
   GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings and crop residues.
   OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under section 9(b) of the
Act of the Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   RESTRICTED AREAS: The area within the boundaries of the City of Carthage.
   (B)   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in
subsection (C) of this section.
      2.   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any
chamber or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is designed for the
purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
   (C)   Exemptions: The following activities are not in violation of this
section unless they cause air pollution as defined in the Act of the
Environmental Protection Agency.
      1.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official.
      2.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational and
cooking purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas where such burning is
consistent with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be burned in such
cases.
      3.   The burning of waste gases, provided that in the case of refineries
all such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
      4.   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares and the like.
      5.   Outdoor leaf burning shall be allowed in areas located not less than
twenty feet (20') from any building or structure, and further no burning
allowed herein shall take place upon any blacktop surface of any road or street
within the City.
Outdoor leaf burning shall include only leaves fallen from trees, plants and
shrubs and shall not include burning of any trash, garbage or other disposables
or any other materials of any nature whatsoever.
Outdoor leaf burning which is permitted under this subsection may be prohibited
at any time when, in the opinion of the appropriate and proper official of the
City or of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, atmospheric conditions
are such that open leaf burning would prove harmful to the health of the
citizens of the City. (Ord. 76-14, 11-8-1976)
   (D)   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 76-14, 11-8-1976; amd. 2018
Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-3-1: Fire Chief Appointed; Duties
5-3-2: Unsafe Stoves, Fireplaces
5-3-3: Chief To Report To Council
5-3-4: Clipper Fire Department; Members, Duties
5-3-5: Procedure On Notice Of Fire
5-3-6: Obey Orders At Fire
5-3-7: Limits In Vicinity Of Fire
5-3-8: Service Outside Corporate Limits
5-3-9: Removal Of Structure
5-3-10: Election Of Chief, Confirmation
5-3-11: Assistant Chiefs; Duties, Confirmation
5-3-12: Election Of Treasurer; Bond
5-3-1: FIRE CHIEF APPOINTED; DUTIES:
The Office of Fire Chief is hereby created. Each year the Mayor of the City, by
and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint a Fire Chief. In
addition there shall be appointed two (2) Assistant Chiefs, and the members of
the City Council shall be ex officio Fire Chiefs.
The Fire Chief shall, immediately after his appointment, and as often
thereafter as he may deem necessary, inspect all stoves, fireplaces and other
places in which fire may be kept, in the City, and all stove pipes, chimneys,
funnels or other apparatus therewith connected for the purpose of ascertaining
whether the same are in such condition as to endanger the building to which the
same is or may be attached, or to endanger any building in the City, and shall
notify the occupants to make all necessary repairs and see that the same are
done in a reasonable time. Any such inspection shall be made at the request of
any citizen, and at any time for the purpose of ascertaining the safety of any
building. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
5-3-2: UNSAFE STOVES, FIREPLACES:
Whenever in the opinion of the Fire Chief, any stove, fireplace or other
apparatus for the conducting of smoke or heat from any such place may be in
such a state as to render the keeping of fire therein unsafe, said Chief is
hereby required to order the occupants of the building in which such stove or
fireplace may be, or with which the same may be connected, to discontinue the
making of fire therein, until all necessary and proper repairs are made,
rendering said building safe in the opinion of said Chief. If any person shall,
contrary to any order as aforesaid, make any fire in such stoves or fireplaces,
or neglect to repair the same, said person shall forfeit and pay to the City
for its use as a penalty therefor, seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each
twenty four (24) hours the same may remain without repairs being made and used
as aforesaid; provided however, that any person feeling himself aggrieved by
the decision or order of the Fire Chief may appeal therefrom to the City
Council at the first meeting thereof after notice as aforesaid. But in all
cases, the order of said Chief to discontinue the making of fire therein shall
be complied with until the final decision of the Council. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908;
amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
5-3-3: CHIEF TO REPORT TO COUNCIL:
It is hereby made the duty of the Fire Chief to report to the City Council at
the stated meetings thereof, any and all breaches of this chapter, and the
results of any and all examinations made by him in pursuance of this chapter;
and when any changes or repairs are ordered by him in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, to report the same and also, whether or not such
repairs or changes have been made. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
5-3-4: CLIPPER FIRE DEPARTMENT; MEMBERS, DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the members of the Clipper Fire Department to take
charge of all engines, ladders, fire hooks and other fire apparatus belonging
to the City, and see that the same are kept in order and condition, and in
their proper place of deposit when not in actual use or undergoing repair. If
any person shall take from said place of deposit, any apparatus, except under
the direction of the Chief of the Fire Department, or other officer in charge
thereof, or on an alarm of fire or otherwise, he shall be fined in any sum not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each twenty four (24) hours he
shall neglect to return the same to its place of deposit after being notified
by any officer of the City or any member of the Fire Department so to do. (Ord.
16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
It shall be the duty of the active members of the Clipper Fire Department to
meet at their place of meeting once a month from May 1 to November 1 of each
year and drill. Any member who shall neglect or refuse to attend any such
meeting of his department for the purpose of exercising the members thereof or
cleansing the engine, or other fire apparatus, unless on account of sickness or
unless he shall be excused by the department, shall not be entitled to
exemption from the street labor for the current year as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
5-3-5: PROCEDURE ON NOTICE OF FIRE:
The several members of the Fire Department shall, upon notice of the breaking
out of any fire in the City, repair immediately to the place thereof, taking
the engine, ladders, hooks and other fire apparatus belonging to the City and
use their best endeavors to extinguish said fire, and prevent the spread
thereof, and to preserve and protect the property endangered by the same; and
it shall also be the duty of the Chief of Police and every police officer to
repair immediately upon the alarm of fire to the place of fire, for the
discharge of police duty, and to aid in extinguishing the fire and to preserve
and protect property as aforesaid. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
5-3-6: OBEY ORDERS AT FIRE:
Every person who shall be present at a fire shall be subject and obedient to
the orders of the Chief of the Fire Department, and the Mayor of the City, in
extinguishing the fire, and the removal and protection of property, and in case
any person shall neglect or refuse to obey such orders he shall forfeit and pay
for each such offense not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
5-3-7: LIMITS IN VICINITY OF FIRE:
The Chief of Police or any police officer, under the direction of the Mayor and
such Alderman as may be present, or under the direction of such Alderman, if
the Mayor should not be present, may prescribe the limits in the vicinity of
any fire within which no person, except those who reside therein, members of
the Fire Department and those admitted by order of the Mayor or Chief of the
Fire Department shall be permitted to come. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979
Code)
5-3-8: SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
   (A)   Authorized: Members of the Fire Department together with firetrucks
and equipment are authorized to go outside the corporate limits of the City but
within Hancock County, Illinois, for the purpose of rendering aid to other Fire
Departments under a mutual aid agreement or a rescue call or extinguishing
fires or rendering aid in case of accident; provided, the Fire Department shall
not render such service outside the corporate limits except upon orders of the
Chief of the Fire Department, Assistant Chief of the Fire Department or the
Mayor and then in that event, at least one working pumper truck together with
necessary equipment and personnel shall remain in the City at all times to
ensure full time City fire protection. (Ord. 88-9, 10-11-1988; amd. Ord. 2008-
9, 12-9-2008)
   (B)   Fees: The fees charged by the Fire Department for answering fire or
other calls outside the City limits of the City of Carthage, including traffic
accidents, shall be the sum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for the first hour
or part thereof, and six hundred dollars ($600.00) for each hour or part
thereof thereafter.
The Fire Chief shall provide the City Clerk with billing information regarding
such calls, including the name, address and telephone number of persons for
whom the call was made, the nature of the service rendered, and in case of
vehicle accidents, the name and driver's license number of the driver or other
responsible person, the make, license number, model and year of the vehicle,
and auto insurance information regarding the vehicle, including the name and
address of the insurance company and the policy number. The City Clerk shall
bill all charges within seven (7) days from the time they are incurred, and as
to vehicles, the bill shall go directly to the insurance company with a copy to
the driver or other responsible person. (Ord. 2011-16, 3-27-2012)
5-3-9: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE:
The Chief of the Fire Department, the Mayor and two (2) Aldermen may cause or
direct the hook and ladder men to cut down and remove any building, erection or
fence for the purpose of checking the progress of the fire; and the Chief of
the Fire Department, with the advice and concurrence of the Mayor or two (2)
Aldermen of the City, shall have power to blow up or cause to be blown up, with
power or otherwise, any building or erection during the progress of the fire
for the purpose of checking the spread of the same. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd.
1979 Code)
5-3-10: ELECTION OF CHIEF, CONFIRMATION:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall be elected by the department as provided
in the constitution and bylaws of said department, and immediately upon his
election, and before he enters upon the duties of his office, the Secretary of
said department shall notify the City Council of said Chief's election, and if
his election be confirmed by the City Council, he shall enter upon his duties
as such Chief, but if it is not confirmed, the City Clerk shall so notify the
Fire Department and they shall proceed to elect another Chief. (Ord. 16, 12-5-
1908; amd. 1979 Code)
5-3-11: ASSISTANT CHIEFS; DUTIES, CONFIRMATION:
In addition to its Chief, the Fire Department shall elect two (2) assistants to
be known as the First and Second Assistant Chiefs who, in the absence of the
Chief shall take charge of the Fire Department, and shall perform all the
duties and have the same powers as the Chief now has or may hereafter have
under the provisions of this Code, and such further duties as may be required
under the rules of the Fire Department. The election of the Assistant Chiefs
shall be confirmed by the City Council in the same manner as is provided for
its Chief. (Ord. 16, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
5-3-12: ELECTION OF TREASURER; BOND:
The Fire Department shall also elect a Treasurer of the Clipper Fire Department
of the City, which Treasurer shall, before entering upon his duties, give a
bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to the City,
conditioned according to law for the faithful performance of his duties as such
Treasurer. (Ord. 383, 2-3-1930; amd. 1979 Code)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
City Police   1
General Offenses   2
Animals   3
Dangerous Dogs   3A
Animal Nuisances   3B
Abandoned Vehicles   4
Grass/Weeds   5
Curfew   6
Cats   7
Cannabis And Drug Paraphernalia   8
CHAPTER 1
CITY POLICE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Members
6-1-2: Police
6-1-3: Supervise, Control Police
6-1-4: Qualification; Bond
6-1-5: Malfeasance In Office
6-1-6: Duties
6-1-7: Confinement, Arrest
6-1-8: Use Of County Jail
6-1-9: Part-Time Police
6-1-1: MEMBERS:
The police of the City shall consist of the Mayor, the Chief of Police, and
such policemen as may be appointed at any time by the Mayor and confirmed by
the City Council, and such other persons as may be called upon by the Mayor or
Chief of Police for the purpose of quelling any riot or unlawful assemblage, or
to assist in making arrests in case of resistance, and to assist in the
execution of any lawful process or order. (Ord. 90-14, 4-30-1991; amd. 2018
Code)
6-1-2: POLICE:
The Mayor of the City shall have the right and power to appoint policemen
whenever in his judgment the same may be necessary for the preservation of the
peace of the City or the protection of persons or property. The policemen so
appointed shall be reported by the Mayor to the City Council at its next
meeting for confirmation by them. The Mayor or Council shall have the right to
revoke the appointment for any policemen as appointed as aforesaid with or
without cause, whenever in his or their judgment the same are not necessary.
The policemen shall be commissioned by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk
under the Seal of the City and such policemen when appointed shall possess the
powers of regular policemen in the City. (Ord. 90-14, 4-30-1991)
6-1-3: SUPERVISE, CONTROL POLICE:
The Mayor or such committee as he shall appoint from time to time, shall have
the general supervision and control of the police, and may make such rules and
regulations as to their duties as will promote the interest of the City,
preserve the laws and enforce the provisions of this Code. He shall see that
they discharge their duties and for any refusal or neglect of duty, drunkenness
or improper conduct may discharge any and all policemen and appoint others in
their place. (Ord. 9, 12-5-1908)
6-1-4: QUALIFICATION; BOND:
No person shall be appointed as a policeman who is under the age of twenty one
(21) years or who is interested or employed in the keeping of any coffee house,
restaurant, beer saloon or grocery for selling liquors. Every person so
appointed shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation that he will, during
his continuance in office, well and truly discharge the duties thereof
according to law and the provisions of this Code, without favor or partiality.
The Mayor or Council may, if deemed best, require bond with security in the sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each, conditioned for the proper and
faithful discharge of their duties. (Ord. 9, 12-5-1908; amd. 2018 Code)
6-1-5: MALFEASANCE IN OFFICE:
The policemen shall obey all rules and regulations made by the Mayor or any
committee so designated by him, and for any neglect or failure to obey the same
or any call or orders of the Mayor or Chief of Police as their next superior
officer, or for any other neglect of duty or misfeasance or malfeasance in
office, shall, on conviction thereof be fined in a sum not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 9, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
6-1-6: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of each member of the police to see to the enforcement of
all provisions of this Code and all statutes effective in the City, and to
preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators thereof.
(Ord. 9, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
6-1-7: CONFINEMENT, ARREST:
When any arrest is made in the night, or at any other time when the proper
court is not in session, or on Sunday, the officer shall convey the party
arrested to the County Jail or other place of confinement until the time for
the hearing of the case, unless bail is given as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 9,
12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
6-1-8: USE OF COUNTY JAIL:
Until such time as the City shall procure a prison of its own, the County Jail
of Hancock County, Illinois, shall be used for the safe keeping of all persons
under arrest. (Ord. 9, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
6-1-9: PART-TIME POLICE:
   (A)   Employment: The City of Carthage may employ part-time police officers
from time to time as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties: A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
Policy Manual of the Carthage Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois
Police Training Act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part-time officer must meet
the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health and
physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline: Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time officers serve at the direction
of the City of Carthage authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the City of Carthage authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and policies
issued by the Carthage Police Department. (Ord. 2011-15, 2-28-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Penalty
6-2-2: Aiding, Abetting An Offense
6-2-3: Airguns
6-2-4: Assault And Battery
6-2-5: Breaking Street Lamps
6-2-6: Discharging Firearms
6-2-7: Disorderly Conduct
6-2-8: Disturbing Congregations Or Assemblies
6-2-9: Disturbing Funeral Assembly Or Procession
6-2-10: Disturbing The Peace; Animals
6-2-11: Drunkenness
6-2-12: Exhibitions; Incite Violence
6-2-13: False Weights And Measures
6-2-14: Fighting
6-2-15: Fireworks
6-2-16: Gambling
6-2-17: Handbills, Distribution Of
6-2-18: Indecent Writing In Public Places
6-2-19: Injuring Property
6-2-20: Junk Yards Prohibited
6-2-21: Keeping A Place Of Prostitution
6-2-22: Trespass
6-2-23: Officer, Impersonating
6-2-24: Officer, Refusing To Assist
6-2-25: Prostitution
6-2-26: Public Indecency
6-2-27: Throwing Missiles
6-2-28: Unlawful Assemblies
6-2-1: PENALTY:
Each of the following sections from
 6-2-1 to
6-2-28 inclusive, of this chapter shall be deemed to state a misdemeanor or
misdemeanors, which if severally or jointly committed by any person or persons
or corporation within the territorial jurisdiction of the City shall subject
the offender or offenders severally to a penalty upon conviction, of not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense; provided, that, when more than one offense is stated in a
section the offender thereof shall be liable to only one penalty. (1979 Code;
amd. 2018 Code)
6-2-2: AIDING, ABETTING AN OFFENSE:
Any person who shall, directly or indirectly, knowingly aid, abet, assist,
advise, encourage or procure any person to commit any violation of any
provisions of this Code, shall be deemed a principal in the same manner as if
he had committed the offense, and shall be punished by the same fine as the
principal offender. (Ord. 13, 12-5-1908)
6-2-3: AIRGUNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or transport any BB gun, air
rifle, air gun, pellet gun or gas gun upon public property within the City,
unless said rifle or gun is carried unloaded in the case; and no persons will
discharge any BB gun, air rifle, air gun, pellet gun or gas gun upon public
property within the City limits of the City. (1979 Code)
6-2-4: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of any assault or of an
assault and battery. (Ord. 13, 12-5-1908)
6-2-5: BREAKING STREET LAMPS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any rifle or other firearm, or
any air gun, or to hurl any ball or missile by sling shot or otherwise at any
street lamp or street hood; or to carelessly or maliciously break, deface or in
any way injure or destroy any street lamp or street hood. (Ord. 159, 1-10-1910)
6-2-6: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any cannon, rifle,
musket, shotgun, pistol or other firearms, except in case of urgent necessity,
or except by the permission of the City police. (Ord. 13, 12-5-1908; amd. 2018
Code)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any rifle,
pistol or other firearms of like character upon, over or adjacent to the body
of water known as the Carthage Lake or the reservoir supplying the water to the
City.
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any musket, shotgun or
similar firearms upon, over or across Carthage Lake or the territory adjacent
thereto or any other City property, except by permission of the City
Superintendent of the Waterworks of the City. (Ord. 447, 10-3-1938)
6-2-7: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of any disorderly conduct. A
person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
   (B)   With intent to annoy another makes a telephone call whether or not
conversation thereby ensues; or
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town or
village a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such transmission that
there is no reasonable ground for believing that such fire exists; or
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing that at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such a bomb
or explosion is concealed in such a place; or
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public official or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it; or
   (G)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the "Collection
Agency Act" of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or as an employee of such
collection agency, and while attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a
telephone call to the alleged debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or
intimidate the alleged debtor. (1979 Code)
6-2-8: DISTURBING CONGREGATIONS OR ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to interrupt or disturb any
congregation or assembly meant for the purpose of religious worship or for any
lawful purpose, by making any loud or unusual noise or by rude or indecent
behavior or by profane, obscene or improper discourse or conduct. (1979 Code)
6-2-9: DISTURBING FUNERAL ASSEMBLY OR PROCESSION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly or funeral procession. (1979 Code)
6-2-10: DISTURBING THE PEACE; ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to keep any dog, whelp, bitch,
calf or other animal shut up or tied up in any yard, house or other place which
by barking, howling or by other noises, shall disturb the peace and quiet of
any family, individual or neighborhood. (1979 Code)
6-2-11: DRUNKENNESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found in the City in a state of
intoxication. (Ord. 14, 12-5-1908)
6-2-12: EXHIBITIONS; INCITE VIOLENCE:
It shall be unlawful and be deemed a nuisance for any person, within the City,
to engage in or cause or permit the showing, exhibition or exposure or
representation, either by picture or act or otherwise in any way, of any prize
fight or other fight, or combat between persons or between any person and an
animal, or of a sparring or boxing match of a bull, fowl or animal contest or
fight, or of a train or other robbery either of person, house or otherwise, or
of a murderous attack or assault, or of any scene or representation which may
or shall have a tendency to excite race hatred, or which may or has a tendency
to inculcate, expose or exhibit immorality or vice, or which in anywise may be
offensive to the public peace or decency or against good order or morals. (Ord.
161, 8-8-1910)
6-2-13: FALSE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the City to sell or dispose of false
weights or measures, any goods, groceries, grain, fruit or other article. Any
person having charge of any scales who shall wilfully or through negligence and
carelessness, give a false weight of anything weighed by him on such scales
shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance and subject to penalty. (Ord.
13. 12-5-1908)
6-2-14: FIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons, voluntarily or by agreement,
to engage in any fight or to use any blows or violence toward each other in any
angry or quarrelsome manner. (Ord. 13, 12-5-1908)
6-2-15: FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to set off or discharge any cracker,
torpedo, rocket, squib or other fireworks without the permission of the City
Mayor/police/Fire Chief. (Ord. 13, 12-5-1908; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2-16: GAMBLING:
   (A)   Gambling Houses: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a house,
shop or place resorted to for the purpose of gambling, or to permit any person
in any house, room, shop or other place under his control or care to play
cards, dice, faro, roulette or other game for money, drink or thing. (Ord. 14,
12-5-1908)
6-2-17: HANDBILLS, DISTRIBUTION OF:
No person shall attach to or shall cause to be attached to the outside of any
motor vehicle in the City any handbill or handbills. (Ord. 740, 5-4-1964)
6-2-18: INDECENT WRITING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to write, draw, cut or make any indecent or
lewd word, object, sentence, phrase, design or figure in any public place or in
any place open to the public view within the City. (1979 Code)
6-2-19: INJURING PROPERTY 1 :
   (A)   Personal Property: It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully,
maliciously or for mischief to break, destroy, injure, disfigure or deface any
window, door or any part of any dwelling, house or other building not his own
or to in like manner attempt to break, destroy, injure or deface any such
building or part thereof by force such as throwing stones or other substances;
or to, in any manner, pull down, remove, destroy, injure, or disfigure any
sign, signpost, gate, gatepost, fence or railing, or any pile of wood, lumber
or other property of another; or to remove, overturn or injure any automobile
or other vehicle belonging to another, or to run off any domestic animal of
another.
   (B)   Trees, Shrubs: It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully,
maliciously or for mischief enter any orchard, yard, garden or enclosure of
another and mutilate, injure or destroy any tree, shrub, vine, fruit or
vegetable therein or take or carry away any fruit, vegetable or flower
therefrom without the consent of the owner or person in charge of the same.
   (C)   Burial Grounds: It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or
destroy, disfigure or deface any fence, railing or gate around any cemetery or
burying ground within the City, or which may be used as burying ground by the
inhabitants of the City without the corporate limits, or to destroy, injure,
disfigure or deface in any such cemetery or burying ground; or to turn or let
any animal or animals into any such cemetery or burying ground; or to leave any
gate or passage into such grounds open so that animals can go therein.
   (D)   Tombstones, Monuments: It shall be unlawful for any person to
mischievously write or mark or paint any words, letters, characters, pictures
or figures of any kind upon any fence, railing, gate or enclosure or open any
tombstone or monuments, or to commit any other nuisance in or about any such
cemetery or burying ground. (Ord. 13, 12-5-1908)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  8-1-3(G) of this Code.
6-2-20: JUNK YARDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate what is commonly
known as a junk yard in the City. (Ord. 468, 8-5-1940)
6-2-21: KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a place of prostitution. Any person
who has or exercises control over the use of any place which could offer
seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution, who performs any of the
following acts, keeps a place of prostitution:
   (A)   Knowingly grants or permits the use: of such place for the purpose of
prostitution; or
   (B)   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from which
he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for purposes
of prostitution; or
   (C)   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts or
circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is being used
for the purposes of prostitution. (1979 Code)
6-2-22: TRESPASS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to trespass upon any place of
amusement, park, hotel or other business place, or private premises, or any
other place within the City, and to refuse to disperse or vacate such place
when requested to do so by any person in possession of any portion of the
premises who is annoyed or aggrieved thereby, or by any police officer. (1979
Code; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2-23: OFFICER, IMPERSONATING:
No person shall, in the City, falsely represent himself to be an officer of the
City, or shall, without being duly authorized by the City, exercise or attempt
to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of a City officer, or shall
hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any City officer in the
discharge of his official duties, or attempt to prevent any such officer from
arresting any person, or attempt to rescue from such officer any person in his
custody. (Ord. 10, 12-5-1908)
6-2-24: OFFICER, REFUSING TO ASSIST:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whoever upon command refuses or knowingly
fails reasonably to aid a person known by him to be a peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission, by another, of any offense. (1979 Code)
6-2-25: PROSTITUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act of prostitution. Any
person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any of the following acts for
money commits an act of prostitution:
   (A)   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
   (B)   Any act of deviate sexual conduct. (1979 Code)
6-2-26: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of public indecency. A person
who performs any of the following acts in a public place commits a public
indecency. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
   (A)   An act of sexual intercourse; or
   (B)   An act of deviate sexual conduct; or
   (C)   A lewd exposure of the body done with the intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desires of the person; or
   (D)   A lewd fondling or caress of the body of another of either sex.
A public place for the purposes of this section shall mean any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1979 Code)
6-2-27: THROWING MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or cast any stone or other missile
upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or upon or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley, lane, public place or enclosed or
unenclosed ground in the City, or to aid or abet the same. (Ord. 13, 12-5-1908)
6-2-28: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons within the City,
to assemble together for any unlawful purpose, or who, being assembled to act
and concert to do an unlawful act, with force and violence against the property
of the City or the person or property of another, or against the peace or to
the terror of citizens or other persons or to make any movement or preparation
therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to suffer or permit any
assembly for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of peace, or
any riotous, offensive or disorderly conduct, in or upon premises owned or
occupied by him, or under his control within the City. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definition
6-3-2: Tags
6-3-3: Running At Large
6-3-4: Inoculation
6-3-5: Dog Bites
6-3-6: Impounding
6-3-7: Noise
6-3-8: Parents' Responsibility
6-3-9: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITION:
   DOG: Includes any canine. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3-2: TAGS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be on any public street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place unless such dog has a collar firmly attached around
its neck with an inoculation tag for the current year attached to such collar.
(Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3-3: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or keeps dogs to permit
such dogs to run at large within the Municipality. Any dog found upon any
public street, sidewalk, alley, parkway or any unenclosed place (other than the
premises or yard owned or rented by the owner of the dog or owned or rented by
a member of the family of the owner of the dog) shall be deemed as running at
large unless such dog is firmly held on a leash or is in an enclosed vehicle.
(Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3-4: INOCULATION:
All dogs three (3) months or more of age must be inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian within the preceding year. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3-5: DOG BITES:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person having custody of any dog which
bites any human being to keep such dog locked up in an enclosure for a period
of ten (10) days following the time the dog has bitten the person and to have
the dog examined by a physician or licensed veterinarian at the commencement
and termination of this ten (10) day period. If such dog, during this period,
shall die or shall show definite signs of illness, it shall be the duty of such
owner or person having custody of the dog to turn the dog over to the County
animal control warden so that it can be determined whether or not the dog had
rabies. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-6: IMPOUNDING:
Any dog found upon a public street or highway running at large shall be
impounded by the County animal control warden. Any dog not having been redeemed
within seven (7) business days after being impounded shall be disposed of in
the manner prescribed by the City Council. Any dog impounded may be redeemed by
the owner upon payment of a fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day for each day
the dog is impounded. Such fees shall be paid to the City Collector. (Ord.
2015-3, 9-22-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-7: NOISE:
All persons owning, possessing or harboring a dog shall prevent such dog from
barking or making other sounds common to its species in an excessive,
continuous or untimely fashion. Thirty (30) minutes or more is deemed
excessive. Any barking between ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. is considered untimely and is a violation, whether or not it
persists thirty (30) minutes. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3-8: PARENTS' RESPONSIBILITY:
The parent or guardian of any minor claiming ownership of any dog shall be
deemed to be the owner of such animal and shall be charged for all penalties
and fees imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined a minimum of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the first offense; a minimum of one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00)
but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense; a
minimum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) but not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the third offense and a minimum of one hundred seventy
five dollars ($175.00) but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each additional offense per twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
CHAPTER 3A
DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Purpose And Intent
6-3A-2: Definitions
6-3A-3: Liability Insurance Or Other Evidence Of Financial Responsibility
Required
6-3A-4: Confinement Of Dangerous Dogs
6-3A-5: Registration Of Dangerous Dogs
6-3A-6: Enforcement
6-3A-7: Notice Of Keeping Of Dangerous Dog
6-3A-8: Severability
6-3A-9: Nuisance, Injunction
6-3A-10: Penalties
6-3A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the City of Carthage. It is intended to be
applicable to dangerous dogs as defined herein, and to regulate dangerous dogs,
by ensuring responsible handling by their owners through environment and
liability insurance. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that, because of its aggressive nature, training or
characteristic behavior, presents a risk of serious physical harm or death to
human beings, or would constitute a danger to human life, physical well being,
or property if not kept under direct control of the owner. This definition
shall not apply to dogs utilized by law enforcement officers in the performance
of their duties. The term "dangerous dog" includes any dog that according to
the records of either the City of Carthage or any other law enforcement agency:
   (A)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered, or inflicted severe
injury on a human being on public or private property, or when unprovoked, has
chased or approached a person upon the street, sidewalks, or any public grounds
in a menacing fashion or an apparent attitude of attack, provided that such
actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one or more persons and
dutifully investigated by any of the above referenced authorities;
   (B)   Has more than once severely injured or killed a domestic animal while
off the owner's property; or
   (C)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dogfighting, or
is a dog trained for dogfighting.
   IMPOUNDMENT: The taking or picking up and confining of an animal by any
police officer, animal control officer, or other public officer under the
provisions of this chapter.
   MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   OWNER: Any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity owning,
harboring or keeping any animal, or in the case of a person under the age of
eighteen (18), that person's parent or legal guardian. An animal shall be
deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three (3) or more
consecutive days. This definition shall not apply to any veterinary clinic or
boarding kennel.
   SANITARY CONDITION: A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize
the possibility of disease transmission.
   UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal is secured by a leash, led under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal or obedient to that
person's commands, or securely enclosed within the real property limits of the
owner's premises. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-3: LIABILITY INSURANCE OR OTHER EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
REQUIRED:
In order to protect the public and to afford relief from the severe harm and
injury which is likely to result from a dangerous animal or dog attack, every
owner of a dangerous animal or dog shall at all times provide evidence of
financial responsibility and the ability to respond in damages to and include
the amount of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury to
or death of any person or persons or for damage to property owned by persons
which may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal or
dog. Proof of the ability to respond in damages shall be given by filing with
the City Clerk of the City of Carthage a certificate of insurance from an
insurance company authorized to do business in the State stating that the owner
is and will be insured against liability to respond to such damages, or by
posting with the City Clerk of the City of Carthage a surety bond conditioned
upon payment of such damages during the period of such registration or other
equivalent evidence of financial responsibility, such as a personal bond
secured by a mortgage in real estate or security interest in personal property.
(Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-4: CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   Dangerous dogs must at all times be securely confined indoors, or
confined in a securely and totally enclosed and locked pen, with either a top
or sides at least six feet (6') in height and a wall to wall concrete slab
floor.
   (B)   At any time that a dangerous dog is not confined as required in
subsection (A) of this section, the dog shall be muzzled in such a manner as to
prevent it from biting or injuring any person or animal, and kept on a leash
with the owner or custodian in attendance.
   (C)   An exception to this section is provided for any dangerous dog in
attendance of, or participating in, any lawful dog show, contest or exhibition
sponsored by a dog club, association, society or similar organization.
   (D)   An exception to this section is provided for any dangerous dog when
the dog is actually engaged in the sport of hunting in authorized areas and
supervised by a competent person. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-5: REGISTRATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   In order to assure that owners of dangerous dogs are in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, and to assist in assuring compliance,
every owner of a dangerous dog in the City of Carthage shall register the dog
with the City Clerk of the City of Carthage. The registration shall include the
following:
Name, address and telephone number of the dog's owner; the address where the
dog is harbored, if different from the owner's address; a complete
identification of the dog including the dog's sex, color, and any other
distinguishing physical characteristics; proof of rabies vaccination; and proof
of the liability insurance or other evidence of financial responsibility
required pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Newly acquired dangerous dogs shall be registered with the City Clerk
of the City of Carthage and the City's designated animal control officer no
later than seventy two (72) hours of acquisition.
   (C)   Every owner, upon receipt of a dangerous dog notice, shall register
the animal with the City Clerk within seventy two (72) hours of receipt of the
dangerous dog notice. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-6: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty and responsibility of all the City of Carthage law
enforcement officers and the designated animal control officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-7: NOTICE OF KEEPING OF DANGEROUS DOG:
Upon written complaint of any person that a person owns or is keeping or
harboring a dangerous dog on premises in the City of Carthage, the animal
control officer may cause the matter to be investigated and if after
investigation, the facts indicate that such person, named in the complaint, is
in fact the owner or is keeping any dangerous dog in the City of Carthage and
has not registered under this chapter, he shall send written notice to such
person, requiring such person to either apply for a registration under this
chapter or remove the animal from the City limits of the City of Carthage
within three (3) days of the date of the notice. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-8: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any provision of this chapter
or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter
which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or application. (Ord.
2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-9: NUISANCE, INJUNCTION:
Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance. In addition to any
other relief provided by this chapter, the City Attorney may apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any
violation of this chapter. Such application for relief may include seeking a
temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and permanent injunction.
(Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3A-10: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). This chapter shall not be deemed
to be violated unless the alleged violator knew, or should have known after a
reasonable inquiry, that the dog which is the subject of the alleged violation
is a dangerous dog under the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Any owner who fails to register the dangerous dog with the City Clerk
within the required three (3) days will result in the dangerous dog being
impounded by animal control. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
CHAPTER 3B
ANIMAL NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Nuisance Declared
6-3B-2: Violation; Penalty
6-3B-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the City of Carthage and its residents for any
person to:
   (A)   Animals: To keep or suffer to be kept upon or about his premises or
upon vacant property or public streets or public property within the City any
goat, sheep, hog, cattle, fowl or other animal, reptile or serpent other than
domesticated house pets; or
   (B)   Animal Carcasses: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any animal carcass, or any offal, filth, excretion or
other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is likely to
become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (C)   Stables And Pigsties: To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or
remain, anywhere within the City any stable or pigsty. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
6-3B-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined a minimum of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Removal Of Abandoned Vehicle
6-4-3: Towing Service, Maintain Records
6-4-4: Authorize Removal
6-4-5: Police Department, Maintain Records
6-4-6: Owner Unknown
6-4-7: Notify State Police, Identify Owner
6-4-8: Proof Of Ownership
6-4-9: Notice Of Sale Of Vehicle
6-4-10: Registered Owner Undetermined
6-4-11: Disposal Of Vehicle, Maintain Report
6-4-12: Proceeds Of Sale
6-4-13: Liability For Damages
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
(7) consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years
old or a bona fide replica thereof and which is driven on the highway only
going to and returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for
servicing or demonstration, or a firefighting vehicle more than twenty (20)
years old which is not used as firefighting equipment but is used only for the
purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
   HIGHWAY: Any street, alley or public way within the City. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-
1970; amd. Ord. 95-3, 5-23-1995)
6-4-2: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLE:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on any
highway in the Municipality is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in the Municipality is unlawful except on property of the
owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or
any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal
by or upon the order of the Chief of Police of the Municipality, after a
waiting period of seven (7) days or more has expired. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-3: TOWING SERVICE, MAINTAIN RECORDS:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this State, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Municipal
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the City.
Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of the Police Department shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-4: AUTHORIZE REMOVAL:
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
City ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the Chief of Police of the City.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of Police of the City.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-5: POLICE DEPARTMENT, MAINTAIN RECORDS:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 70-5,
7-6-1970)
6-4-6: OWNER UNKNOWN:
When the Police Department does not know the identity of the registered owner
or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the Illinois State
Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the Illinois State
Police files are searched with negative results, the information contained in
the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the
Illinois State Police. The information determined from these record searches
will be used by the Police Department in sending a notification by certified
mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is
held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-7: NOTIFY STATE POLICE, IDENTIFY OWNER:
When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of
a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this State or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the Illinois State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois
State Police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having
custody of the vehicle for notification of owner. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-8: PROOF OF OWNERSHIP:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-9: NOTICE OF SALE OF VEHICLE:
Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of thirty
(30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to
the sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of
the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person
known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
In those instances where the certified notification specified herein has been
returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this State, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-10: REGISTERED OWNER UNDETERMINED:
When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of
age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this chapter,
the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the manner
authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is impounded as
specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition; and, an examination of the Illinois State Police stolen motor
vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten
(10) day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of
the vehicle as junk only.
A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is excluded
from this chapter. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-11: DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE, MAINTAIN REPORT:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police Department
is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Police
Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-12: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the City is authorized to
be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth in this
chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the Municipal
Treasury. (Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
6-4-13: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
Any police officer, towing service, owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner or his legal representative, or any other person
legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the
vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 70-5, 7-6-1970)
CHAPTER 5
GRASS/WEEDS 1
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definition
6-5-2: Height
6-5-3: Owner To Cut
6-5-4: Lien Against Property
6-5-5: Discarding Of Clippings
6-5-6: Fine
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 7-2-2-3 and
  7-3-4 of this Code.
6-5-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds" as used in this chapter shall include the burdock, ragweed (giant),
ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common milkweed,
wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lambsquarter, wild
lettuce, curled dock, smart weeds (all varieties), poison hemlock, wild hemp
and other similar vegetation. (Ord. 2019-02, 7-9-2019)
6-5-2: HEIGHT:
It is hereby declared to be illegal for the owners of real estate to refuse or
neglect to cut grass or weeds when such grass or weeds shall have reached a
height in excess of six inches (6"). (Ord. 2019-02, 7-9-2019)
6-5-3: OWNER TO CUT:
Every real estate owner within the City shall cut grass or weeds on his/her
property at all such times as may be necessary so that such shall not exceed
six inches (6") in height, and if the owner neglects or refuses to cut grass or
weeds so that such grass or weeds shall exceed six inches (6") in height, the
City may cut the grass or weeds or authorize someone to cut the grass or weeds
on behalf of the City. (Ord. 2019-02, 7-9-2019)
6-5-4: LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY:
If grass or weeds are cut by the City or by someone directed to cut them on
behalf of the City, a notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof incurred
by the City shall be recorded in the following manner: The City Clerk or the
person performing the service by authority of the City, in its or his own name,
may file notice of lien in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Hancock
County. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
   (A)   A description of the real estate for identification thereof;
   (B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; together with a weed lien fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00), payable to the City and notice that the lien shall draw interest at
the rate of five percent (5%); and
   (C)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the City,
and shall be filed within sixty (60) days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
Upon payment of the fee, cost, interest and expense after notice of lien has
been filed, the lien shall be released by the City or person in whose name the
lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner
as filing notice of the said lien, upon payment of the recording fee by the
owner of the real estate. (Ord. 2019-02, 7-9-2019)
6-5-5: DISCARDING OF CLIPPINGS:
No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of grass
clippings upon any public or private property in this City unless:
   (A)   The property has been designated by the State or any of its agencies,
political subdivisions, units of local government or school districts for the
disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the Pollution Control
Board;
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the person or direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, or a
fire hazard. (Ord. 2019-02, 7-9-2019)
6-5-6: FINE:
The minimum fine for violation of this chapter shall be seventy five dollars
($75.00) with a maximum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2019-02,
7-9-2019)
CHAPTER 6
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-6-1: Age Limit; Hours
6-6-2: Parents' Responsibility
6-6-3: Detention By Police
6-6-4: Penalty
6-6-1: AGE LIMIT; HOURS:
It is unlawful for any person less than eighteen (18) years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at
the following times unless accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other
responsible companion of at least eighteen (18) years of age, approved by
parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or occupation which
the laws of this State authorize a person less than eighteen (18) years of age
to perform: (Ord. 69-6, 6-2-1969; amd. 2018 Code)
Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Saturday;
Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Sunday; and
Between 11:00 P.M. on Sunday to Thursday inclusive and 6:00 A.M. on the
following day. (Ord. 69-6, 6-2-1969)
6-6-2: PARENTS' RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly
permit a person in his custody or control to violate section
6-6-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 69-6, 6-2-1969)
6-6-3: DETENTION BY POLICE:
Each member of the police force is hereby authorized to detain any person
violating provisions of section
6-6-1 of this chapter until he is turned over to the custody of the parent,
guardian or other person having the care and custody of such child. (Ord. 69-6,
6-2-1969)
6-6-4: PENALTY:
A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 69-6, 6-2-1969; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CATS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definition
6-7-2: Identification And Inoculation
6-7-3: Cats Running At Large Prohibited
6-7-4: Parents' Responsibility
6-7-5: Cat Bites
6-7-6: Impounding
6-7-7: Noise
6-7-8: Penalty
6-7-1: DEFINITION:
   CAT: Includes any cat. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993)
6-7-2: IDENTIFICATION AND INOCULATION:
Every person residing in the City and owning or having in his possession any
cat shall have such cat bear some identification, either by tag, tattoo or
other suitable means of identification.
All cats three (3) months or more of age must be inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian within the preceding year. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993)
6-7-3: CATS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No person shall permit his cat to run at large within the limits of the City at
any time. A cat shall be deemed at large when off the premises of its owner or
keeper without being under adequate control of its owner or keeper. (Ord. 93-7,
8-10-1993)
6-7-4: PARENTS' RESPONSIBILITY:
The parent or guardian of any minor claiming ownership of any cat shall be
deemed to be the owner of such animal and shall be charged for all penalties
and fees imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993)
6-7-5: CAT BITES:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person having custody of any cat which
bites any human being to keep such cat locked up in an enclosure for a period
of ten (10) days following the time the cat has bitten the person and to have
the cat examined by a physician or licensed veterinarian at the commencement
and termination of this ten (10) day period. If such cat, during this period,
shall die or shall show definite signs of illness, it shall be the duty of such
owner or person having custody of the cat to turn the cat over to the County
animal control warden so that it can be determined whether or not the cat had
rabies. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993; amd. 2018 Code)
6-7-6: IMPOUNDING:
Any cat found upon a public street or highway running at large shall be
impounded by the appropriate veterinary service. Any cat not having been
redeemed within seven (7) days after being impounded shall be disposed of in
the manner prescribed by the City Council. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993; amd. 2018
Code)
Any cat impounded may be redeemed by the owner upon payment of a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) per day for each day the cat is impounded. Such fees shall be
paid to the City Collector. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993)
6-7-7: NOISE:
All persons owning, possessing or harboring a cat shall prevent such cat from
whining or making other sounds common to its species in an excessive,
continuous or untimely fashion. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993)
6-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined a minimum of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the first offense; a minimum of one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00)
but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for second offense; a minimum
of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) but not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for third offense and a minimum of one hundred seventy five dollars
($175.00) but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional
offense per twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 93-7, 8-10-1993; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Possession Under Twenty One (21) Unlawful
6-8-3: Citations
6-8-4: Evidence Collection
6-8-5: Reports
6-8-6: Expungement And Sealing
6-8-7: Violation - Penalty
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
   CANNABIS: Cannabis includes marijuana, hashish, and other substances which
are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such
plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixtures or preparation
of such plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and
all other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or
synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks
of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of such plant, and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Drug paraphernalia includes any paraphernalia to use in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body, or
in preparing cannabis for that use. (Ord. 2016-4, 11-8-2016)
6-8-2: POSSESSION UNDER TWENTY ONE (21) UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to possess
any quantity of a substance containing cannabis. All violations under this
section are to be prosecuted as civil law violations and are not criminal. The
effect of this chapter shall be limited for purposes of municipal prosecution
and shall have no effect or application to any offense or violation under the
Illinois Criminal Code. Possession of any amount of cannabis pursuant to a duly
authorized medical possession is not a violation of this section. (Ord. 2019-
12, 2-25-2020)
6-8-3: CITATIONS:
   (A)   Citations: Officers will modify their Municipal Citation and Complaint
form, consistent with Supreme Court Rule 589, including providing the notices
required by Supreme Court Rule. Civil law citations in the Municipality may be
issued by the City police, the Illinois State Police, the County Sheriff or any
other Illinois law enforcement officer. The civil violation is a "must appear"
offense, unless:
      1.   The defendant admits to the violation and pays a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to the City Clerk or the Clerk's designee, at the Office of
the City Clerk, within fourteen (14) days from the date of the citation, or
unless
      2.   The defendant admits to the violation and pays one hundred twenty
dollars ($120.00) to the Circuit Clerk (which includes all fines, penalties and
costs) on or before the appearance date on the citation.
      3.   In the event the defendant fails to admit and pay the City Clerk as
provided in subsection (A)1 of this section, or in the alternative, fails to
admit and pay the Circuit Clerk as provided in subsection (A)2 of this section,
the defendant must appear in Circuit Court on the day provided in the citation.
   (B)   Separate Citations: A separate citation shall be issued for each
offense. Officers will:
      1.   Check "Notice to Appear" as the (only) form of bond (no cash bond);
      2.   Provide a court date that is between 14 - 60 days from the date of
the offense; and
      3.   Inform the violator that he/or she can satisfy the civil citation by
payment to the City Clerk as provided in subsection (A)1 of this section or by
payment to the Circuit Clerk as provided in subsection (A)2 of this section
prior to the appearance date, or by appearing on the court date provided; and
      4.   Complete the required stop cards for all enforcement stops of
citizens; and
      5.   Officers will not arrest and/or transport subjects to jail
exclusively for a civil citation and therefore will not make parental
notifications for juveniles. Citations written to juveniles are confidential
and should be handled in the same manner as other juvenile documents. (Ord.
2016-4, 11-8-2016)
6-8-4: EVIDENCE COLLECTION:
   (A)   The burden of proof to convict for a civil cannabis citation depends
upon the completion of a positive field test by a trained and experienced
police officer or based upon the training, experience, and observations of the
trained officer.
   (B)   Officers seizing cannabis should first weigh the cannabis to determine
if it is within the threshold qualifying for a "civil citation" (10 grams or
less).
   (C)   All other standard evidence processing procedures remain in effect.
(Ord. 2016-4, 11-8-2016)
6-8-5: REPORTS:
   (A)   Civil Citation: The "civil citation" will serve as the report.
Officers will insert the following verbiage on the lines provided for Nature of
Offense: "10.0 grams or less of a substance containing Cannabis - Field Test
Positive" or "Possession of Drug Paraphernalia with 10.0 grams or less
Cannabis".
   (B)   Notations: After giving the violator their respective copies of the
citation, officers will make very brief notations directly on the top copy of
the citation documenting their observations leading to the seizure of cannabis
or drug paraphernalia.
   (C)   Field Reports: Field reports will not be completed for civil
violations and will only be completed if an officer takes a subject into
custody for a criminal offense and a civil violation is the proximate cause for
the arrest.
   (D)   Evidence Inventory Form: An Evidence Inventory form, will be completed
in all instances where any amount of cannabis is seized and a copy will be
provided to the violator. On the face of the inventory form, the officer will
use the citation number for the report number and write "10.0 grams or less
Cannabis - Field Test Positive" or "Possession of Drug Paraphernalia with 10.0
grams or less Cannabis".
   (E)   Fingerprinting: Fingerprints will not be taken for "civil citations".
When a subject is taken into custody for a criminal offense, "civil citations"
written during the same encounter will not be documented on the fingerprint
report.
   (F)   Warning To Motorist: Officers will give subjects arrested for DUI
cannabis the standard warning to motorist. (Ord. 2016-4, 11-8-2016)
6-8-6: EXPUNGEMENT AND SEALING 1 :
Arrest and disposition records related to the newly created civil law
violations for the possession of cannabis and drug paraphernalia are required
to be automatically expunged on or before January 1 or July 1 of each year.
(Ord. 2016-4, 11-8-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 2630/5.2.
6-8-7: VIOLATION - PENALTY:
All violations of this chapter are civil law violations and are not criminal.
Any person found by the court, after trial, to be in violation of any section
of this chapter shall be subject to punishment by a fine only. For violations
of subsection
6-8-2(A) of this chapter the fine shall be a minimum fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and a maximum fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00). For
violations of subsection
6-8-2(B) of this chapter the fine shall be a minimum fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and a maximum fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord.
2016-4, 11-8-2016)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Sanitation; Health   1
Nuisances   2
Garbage And Refuse   3
Reserved   4
Dwelling Unit Standards   5
CHAPTER 1
SANITATION; HEALTH
SECTION:
7-1-1: Sanitary Inspection
7-1-2: Offensive Establishments
7-1-3: Secondhand Goods
7-1-4: Slops And Garbage
7-1-5: Diseased Animals
7-1-6: Smoke
7-1-1: SANITARY INSPECTION:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Board of Health that the
condition of any building or premises is injurious to the health or dangerous
to the lives of the occupants or of the public, the Health Officer shall make a
thorough examination of the building or premises, and upon his report, the
Board of Health shall direct and instruct as to the remedy of such condition;
and if this is not remedied within a reasonable time, the Board of Health shall
cause such building or premises to be put in good sanitary order at the cost of
the individual responsible for, or causing such unhealthy or dangerous
condition. (Ord. 18, 9-2-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
7-1-2: OFFENSIVE ESTABLISHMENTS:
No slaughterhouse, stockyard, cattle yard or shed, feed yard, fertilizing
works, soap factory, dye works, starch factory, rendering plant or any other
business causing noxious odors or whose operation may be detrimental to public
health shall be established or maintained within the jurisdiction of the Board
of Health, except under license granted by special ordinance of the City
Council. (Ord. 18, 9-2-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
7-1-3: SECONDHAND GOODS:
It shall be unlawful to sell, expose or offer for sale any article of
secondhand clothing, wearing apparel or other article by means of which disease
may be conveyed, unless the same has first been thoroughly disinfected under
the directions of the Health Officer. (Ord. 18, 9-2-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
7-1-4: SLOPS AND GARBAGE:
It shall be unlawful to throw, discharge or deposit in any place within the
jurisdiction of the Board of Health, any garbage, meats, slops, animal matter,
suds, vegetables, filth, night soil, stable drippings or dead animals or offal
of any kind, except in such places as may be designated as dumping grounds by
the Board of Health. (Ord. 18, 9-2-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
7-1-5: DISEASED ANIMALS:
No domestic animal afflicted with disease shall run at large or be exposed in
any public place, whereby the health of man or beast may be affected, within
the limits of the City, nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed
from the premises of its owner, except under the supervision of the Health
Officer of the City, or of the State veterinarian. It is hereby made the duty
of the Board of Health to secure such disposition of any diseased animal, and
such treatment of infected premises, as to prevent the communication and spread
of the contagion or infection, except in cases where the State veterinarian is
empowered to act; and in all such cases, the Board of Health shall cooperate
with the State veterinarian so far as such cooperation may be necessary to the
protection of the health of the citizens of the City. (Ord. 18, 9-2-1908; amd.
1979 Code)
7-1-6: SMOKE:
It shall be unlawful for the owners, lessees, tenants or managers of every
blacksmith or other shop, forge, foundry, manufactory or other business to
allow smoke, dust, gas or offensive odor to escape from any such building,
place or premises, to the detriment or annoyance of others. (Ord. 18, 9-2-1908;
amd. 1979 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
7-2-1: In General
7-2-1-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful
7-2-1-2: Nuisance Defined, Generally
7-2-1-3: Nuisances Not Enumerated Herein
7-2-1-4: Enumeration Not Exclusive
7-2-1-5: Duty Of Officers To Investigate; Power Of Entry
7-2-1-6: Notice To Proper Officials
7-2-2: Certain Nuisances Declared
7-2-2-1: Foul Odors, Filth
7-2-2-2: Rubbish, Dry Grass
7-2-2-3: Weeds
7-2-2-4: Petroleum Products, Explosives
7-2-2-5: Unsafe Buildings
7-2-2-6: Abandoned Refrigerators
7-2-2-7: Inoperable Motor Vehicles, Equipment
7-2-2-8: Dust, Cinders
7-2-2-9: Scaffolding, Ladders
7-2-2-10: Storage Of Personalty As Nuisance
7-2-2-11: Disorderly Crowd Or Assembly
7-2-3: Abatement
7-2-3-1: Notice To Abate Nuisance
7-2-3-2: Abatement Of Nuisance; City To Abate; Time Limits
7-2-3-3: Failure To Abate, Separate And Recurring Offense
7-2-3-4: Failure To Abate; Abatement By City
7-2-3-5: Summary Abatement By City When Emergency Or On Public Property
7-2-3-6: Cost Of Abatement; Debt Of Owner
7-2-1: IN GENERAL:
7-2-1-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to wilfully
or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere
within the City. (1979 Code)
7-2-1-2: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY:
Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall exist or continue
for such length of time as to:
   (A)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
   (B)   In any way render the public insecure in life or property; or
   (C)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   (D)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place,
is hereby declared a nuisance. (1979 Code)
7-2-1-3: NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED HEREIN:
Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or other provisions of this Code
or ordinances of the City shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
chapter as if enumerated specifically herein. (1979 Code)
7-2-1-4: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but are in
addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this Code or ordinances of the
City. (1979 Code)
7-2-1-5: DUTY OF OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY:
For the purpose of discovering nuisances it shall be the duty of the Police,
Fire, Health and Codes Enforcement Officer to investigate, confirm, report any
nuisances coming to their attention. (1979 Code)
7-2-1-6: NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS:
Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the Police, Fire, Health or Codes Enforcement Officer, notice shall be given to
the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved, and to the
appropriate City officials whose functions include the abatement of such
nuisances. (1979 Code)
7-2-2: CERTAIN NUISANCES DECLARED:
7-2-2-1: FOUL ODORS, FILTH:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the City and its residents for any person:
   (A)   Businesses: To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity; or (1979 Code)
   (B)   Vegetable Matter: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is,
or is likely to become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (C)   Cellars, Vaults, Privies: To cause or permit any cellar, vault,
cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from any
cause, foul or offensive or injurious to the public health; or
   (D)   Stagnant Water: To permit to be collected or to stand upon any
premises any foul or stagnant water of any kind; or
   (E)   Foul Or Noxious Substances: To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety
of any person. (1979 Code; amd. Ord. 2015-3, 9-22-2015)
For citations under this section, see section
1-4-1-1 of this Code. (2018 Code)
7-2-2-2: RUBBISH, DRY GRASS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health, and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Rubbish, Rags: The deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oil rags,
rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute a
fire hazard; or
   (B)   Dry Grass, Vegetation: The deposit, accumulation, existence or growth
upon any property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like
substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard. (1979 Code)
7-2-2-3: WEEDS 1 :
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Jimson, Burdock: Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cockleburs, or other weeds of a like kind, to grow in any lot or tract of land
in the City. (1979 Code)
   (B)   Height: Any weeds, grass or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers,
vegetables or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding six inches
(6") anywhere in the City. (1979 Code; amd. Ord. 2006-6, 6-9-2006)
   (C)   Barberry Bushes: Growth of the bush of the tall, common or European
barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties,
within the City. (1979 Code)
For citations under this section, see section
1-4-1-1 of this Code. (2018 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 5 of this Code.
7-2-2-4: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, EXPLOSIVES:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Petroleum Products: The accumulation or storage, within one hundred
(100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business, other than a
licensed gasoline service station, of any petroleum, naphtha, benzine, coal
oil, gasoline, kerosene, turpentine or other petroleum products or inflammable
substances of any kind, in quantities greater than fifty (50) gallons except
no. 2 fuel oil or heavier, used for heating purposes; or
   (B)   Explosives: The deposit, accumulation, storage or presence, within one
hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business of any
powder magazine, nitroglycerine, dynamite or other explosive substance of any
kind. (1979 Code)
7-2-2-5: UNSAFE BUILDINGS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety, and a nuisance for any
person, to construct or maintain any buildings or structures in violation of
any of the building provisions of this Code, or any building which is in an
unsanitary condition, or in an unsafe or dangerous condition, or which in any
manner endangers the health or safety of any person or persons. Every building
or part thereof which is in an unsanitary condition by reason of the basement
or cellar being damp or wet, or by reason of the floor of such basement or
cellar being covered with stagnant water, or by reason of the presence of sewer
gas, or by reason of any portion of the building being infected with disease or
being unfit for human habitation, or which by reason of any other unsanitary
condition is a source of sickness or which endangers the public health, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. (1979 Code)
7-2-2-6: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence or storage in any place accessible to
children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep
freeze or other airtight appliance or container of any kind, of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, from which the lids, doors or other
covers have not been removed or which cannot easily be opened by a child, by
means of pushing only, from the inside thereof. (1979 Code)
7-2-2-7: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence or storage upon any premises within the
City for more than fifteen (15) days of:
   (A)   Any unused, stripped, junked, wrecked or otherwise inoperable motor
vehicle of any kind, or of any other vehicle, implement, machinery, equipment
or other personal property of any kind, which is no longer safely operable or
usable for the purpose for which it was manufactured; or
   (B)   Any parts of such motor vehicle or equipment or old iron, metal,
glass, paper, cordage or other waste or discarded secondhand material which has
been a part, or intended to be a part, of any motor vehicle, the sum of which
parts of material shall be equal in bulk to one or more automobiles, except
within a duly licensed junk yard; provided, however, that this section shall
not be construed to apply to any such motor vehicle or equipment, etc., that is
kept within a building when not in use, or to historical motor vehicles
maintained as such, over twenty five (25) years of age. (1979 Code)
   (C)   For the purposes of this section: "Inoperable motor vehicle" means any
motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed,
or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated as to render the vehicle incapable of being safely driven
under its own motor power, or any motor vehicle not displaying valid registered
plates and/or stickers; provided, however, that this definition shall not be
construed to include any motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily
incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
7-2-2-8: DUST, CINDERS:
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance for
any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged or otherwise disturbed so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise to the detriment of any person or property.
   (B)   Every person engaged in hauling of any sand, dirt, cinders, ashes,
earth or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the moving,
rolling, compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil and the
like, shall make adequate provision as often as is required to arrest and
prevent such dust through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other materials
used and recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject to the
supervision and approval of the City police. (1979 Code)
7-2-2-9: SCAFFOLDING, LADDERS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person:
   (A)   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
   (B)   To place or leave, or to cause or permit to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same
may fall into any street, sidewalk or other public way, whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered. (1979 Code)
7-2-2-10: STORAGE OF PERSONALTY AS NUISANCE:
   (A)   Nuisance Declared: Unsheltered storage of old, unused, machinery and/
or equipment and personal property of any kind which is no longer safely usable
for the purpose for which it was manufactured, which hereinafter are
collectively described as "personalty" for a period of thirty (30) days or more
(except in licensed junk yards) within the corporate limits of the City is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety.
   (B)   Abatement Of Nuisance By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees
and/or occupants of any lot within the corporate limits of this City upon which
such storage is made, and also the owner, owners and/or lessees of such
personalty involved in such storage (all of which are hereinafter referred to
collectively as "owners"), shall jointly and severally abate such nuisance by
the prompt removal of such personalty into completely enclosed buildings
authorized to be used for such storage purposes, if within the corporate limits
of the City or otherwise to remove it to a location outside such corporate
limits.
   (C)   Penalty For Failure Of Owner To Abate Such Nuisance: If such owners
allow such nuisance to exist or fail to abate such nuisance, they, and each of
them, upon conviction thereof shall be penalized by the imposition of a fine
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each day during or on which such nuisance
is permitted to exist.
   (D)   Abatement By The City: Whenever such owners fail to abate such
nuisance, then the City shall remove the personalty to a location of its
selection, the expenses therefor to be billed to such owners, jointly and
severally, such bill to be recoverable in a suit at law.
When such personalty has been removed and placed in storage by the City, as
provided for herein, such personalty shall be sold by the City after the lapse
of such time as is provided by law. If the proceeds of such sale are
insufficient to pay the cost of abatement, such owners shall be liable to the
City for the balance of the costs, jointly and severally, to be recoverable in
a suit at law. If the proceeds are in excess of costs, the balance shall be
paid to such owners or deposited in the City Treasury for its use. (Ord. 89-9,
12-12-1989)
7-2-2-11: DISORDERLY CROWD OR ASSEMBLY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of a disorderly
crowd or assemblage that makes noises, disturbances or sounds in any house or
in any part of the City in such a manner as to disturb the peace of the
neighborhood or those passing on the street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or other person in
control of any property to permit a disorderly crowd or assemblage to gather or
remain on any property in his possession or control. The presence of a
disorderly crowd or assemblage on any real estate in the City shall be prima
facie evidence that the owner or occupant of the property knew of, and
permitted a disorderly crowd or assemblage to gather on such property. (Ord.
93-15, 2-8-1994)
7-2-3: ABATEMENT:
7-2-3-1: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   (A)   Whenever any health or building official or inspector, or any police
or fire officer, determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or
premises, except as otherwise provided herein, the proper City official shall
cause a written notice to be served personally upon the owner or, if the owner
cannot be found, upon the occupant or person in control of the property or
premises who is causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance, and shall
cause a copy of said notice to be conspicuously posted within or upon such
property or premises.
   (B)   Such notice shall fairly appraise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time provided
therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state that, if
said nuisance is abated by the City, liability for necessary expenses so
incurred shall accrue as provided for in section
7-2-3-6 of this section
7-2-3. (1979 Code)
7-2-3-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE; CITY TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS:
It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within the City to
discontinue and abate such nuisance within forty eight (48) hours or such other
time period as may be specified therein, from the time he receives written
notice thereof. (1979 Code)
7-2-3-3: FAILURE TO ABATE, SEPARATE AND RECURRING OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to neglect,
refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after expiration of
the forty eight (48) hour or other specified time period provided by notice
thereof; and each twenty four (24) hours, or fraction thereof, during which
such nuisance continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense. (1979
Code)
7-2-3-4: FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lessee or person in control
of premises or property affected within the time provided by notice, the proper
City officer shall cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance. (1979 Code)
7-2-3-5: SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY CITY WHEN EMERGENCY OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Whenever any nuisance:
   (A)   Constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or immediate danger to
public health or safety; or
   (B)   Exists on public property;
The proper City officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any forty eight (48) hour or
other time period specified by notice to the person responsible therefor;
provided, however that in the situation in subsection (A) of this section, such
officer shall have first applied for and obtained the written permission of the
Mayor for such summary abatement. (1979 Code)
7-2-3-6: COST OF ABATEMENT; DEBT OF OWNER:
   (A)   Any cost or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the City
pursuant to the provisions of sections
7-2-3-4 and
7-2-3-5 of this section
7-2-3 shall be deemed a debt to the City by the owner, lessee or person in
control of premises upon which such nuisance existed; provided, that where
specifically provided in this Code or by statute, such costs and expenses shall
become a lien upon the real estate or personal property affected, superior to
all other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to enforce by civil action
any and all such debts or liens as provided in subsection (A) of this section.
(1979 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Hauling Garbage
7-3-3: Scavenger Work
7-3-4: Accumulation Of Debris
7-3-5: Receptacle Required
7-3-6: Designation Of Residential Garbage Hauler
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
   ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
   GARBAGE: Waste resulting from the hauling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; waste from the hauling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE: Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, all mineral waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited to,
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles. (Ord. 72-12, 8-7-1972)
7-3-2: HAULING GARBAGE:
Any person hauling garbage, refuse and ashes over the public streets of the
City shall haul such garbage, refuse and ashes in such a manner that the same
shall be securely tied and covered during the hauling thereof, and prevent any
leakage, spillage or blowing of said garbage, refuse and ashes as the same are
being hauled. No person shall allow garbage, refuse and ashes of any kind
whatsoever to leak, spill, blow or drop from any vehicle onto any public street
within the City. (Ord. 72-12, 8-7-1972)
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 72-12, 8-7-1972; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
7-3-3: SCAVENGER WORK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the removal of offal, garbage,
slops and the like, or pursue the occupation of a scavenger within the limits
of the City without first obtaining permission from the City Council to do so,
which permission, if any, shall specify the conditions under which such
scavenger work may take place. All scavengers, with permission of the City
Council, in removing any offal or garbage, shall take it to such places as may
be designated by the City Council or the Board of Health and so deposit or
otherwise dispose of the same so that it will not become a nuisance or menace
to public health. (1979 Code)
7-3-4: ACCUMULATION OF DEBRIS:
   (A)   Nuisance Declared: The presence upon lands lying within the corporate
limits of the City or within one-half (1/2) mile beyond the limits of the City
of brush, weeds, dead and dying trees, stumps, roots, obnoxious growth, filth,
garbage, trash, inoperative or unused chattel property and debris is hereby
declared to be detrimental to public health, and is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   Notice To Remove: The owner or tenant of lands lying within the
corporate limits of the City or within one-half (1/2) mile beyond the limits of
the City are hereby required to remove or cause to be removed from such lands
any brush, weeds, dead or dying trees, stumps, roots, obnoxious growth, filth,
garbage, trash, inoperative or unused chattel property and debris within ten
(10) days after receipt by such owner or tenant of written notice from the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Service And Contents Of Notice: Notice to the owner or tenant to cause
the removal of the substances referred to in subsection (B) of this section
shall be given by the Code Enforcement Officer and may be served upon any such
owner or tenant either personally or by registered or certified mail; and, if
by the latter method, the ten (10) day period within which such removal shall
be accomplished shall be deemed to have commenced to run from the date of the
return receipt of such registered or certified mail obtained by the postal
authority for the delivery of such notice. Every such notice shall, in addition
to requiring the removal aforesaid, warn the owner or tenant of the lands to
which such notice refers that failure to accomplish such removal within the
time stated therein will result in removal by the City; and the cost of such
removal by the City shall be charged to the owner or tenant of such lands and
shall be payable to the City within thirty (30) days after the date of
submission of the charges.
   (D)   Failure To Obey Notice: Whenever the owner or tenant of such lands
within the City or within one-half (1/2) mile of the boundary thereof,
receiving the notice provided for by subsection (C) of this section to remove
from such lands any of the substances hereinbefore mentioned, shall fail and
neglect, within the time prescribed in the notice, to effect removal of such
substances, such removal shall be accomplished by or under the direction of the
Code Enforcement Officer. An accurate record of the cost of such removal to the
City shall be determined by the Code Enforcement Officer, who shall certify the
cost thereof to the City Council, which shall examine the certificate, and if
found correct, shall cause the cost as shown thereon to be charged against the
owner or tenant. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
For citations under this section, see section
1-4-1-1 of this Code. (2018 Code)
7-3-5: RECEPTACLE REQUIRED:
A receptacle shall be required for garbage and refuse which shall be
watertight, and made of metal or plastic with a close fitting cover; and it
shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any such house, building, flat or
tenement in the City where people reside, board or lodge, or where animal or
vegetable food is prepared and served, at all times to maintain in good order
and repair such a receptacle for items deposited outside of any house,
building, flat or tenement. (Ord. 802, 7-10-1967)
7-3-6: DESIGNATION OF RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE HAULER:
   (A)   The residential garbage hauler for the City of Carthage, Hancock
County, Illinois, shall be Area Disposal Services, Inc., Carthage, Illinois,
pursuant to the terms of a contract to be entered into by and between the City
of Carthage and Area Disposal Services, Inc., for the agreed contract.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Clerk are hereby authorized by the City Council to
enter into a garbage hauling contract with Area Disposal Services, Inc., that
the Council deems to be in the best interest of the residents of the City of
Carthage, Hancock County, Illinois. (Ord. 2003-13, 1-27-2004; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
(2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DWELLING UNIT STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Inspection
7-5-3: Enforcement; Hearings
7-5-4: Adoption Of Rules And Regulations
7-5-5: Basic Equipment And Facilities
7-5-6: Light, Ventilation And Heating
7-5-7: Safe And Sanitary Maintenance
7-5-8: Minimum Space, Use, Location Requirements
7-5-9: Responsibility Of Owners, Occupants
7-5-10: Bed And Breakfasts
7-5-11: Unfit Dwellings
7-5-12: Conflicting Provisions
7-5-13: Violations
7-5-14: Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
   BASEMENT: Shall mean a portion of a building located partly underground, but
having less than one-half (1/2) its clear floor- to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST: Shall mean a building or a portion thereof, containing
lodging rooms, which accommodate three (3) or more persons who are not members
of the keeper's family.
   CELLAR: Shall mean a portion of a building located partly or wholly
underground, and having one-half (1/2) or more than one- half (1/2) of its
clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING: Shall mean any building which is wholly or partly used or intended
to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
   DWELLING UNIT: Shall mean any room or group of rooms located within a
dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Shall mean the Codes Enforcement Officer or a person
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council, who is
authorized by section
7-5-2 of this chapter to make inspections to determine the condition of
dwellings located within the jurisdiction of this chapter and who is to
generally administer the enforcement of this chapter in all respects.
   EXTERMINATION: Shall mean the control and elimination of insects, rodents
and other pests.
   GARBAGE: Shall mean the vegetable and animal waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM: Shall mean a room or enclosed floor space used or intended
to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding
bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or
communicating corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION: Shall mean the presence, within or around a dwelling, of any
insects, rodents or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING: Shall mean any dwelling containing more than two (2)
dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT: Shall mean any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping,
cooking or eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or
rooming unit.
   OPERATOR: Shall mean any person who has charge, care or control of a
building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER: Shall mean any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
   (A)   Shall have the legal title to any dwelling or dwelling units, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
   (B)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee or
guardian of the estate of the owner.
   PLUMBING: Shall mean and include all of the following supplied facilities
and equipment: gas pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes-washing machines, catch basins,
drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   RUBBISH: Shall mean combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except
garbage; and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
coke and other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass, crockery, etc.
   SUPPLIED: Shall mean paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control
of, the owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING: Shall mean any tent, trailer or other structure used for
human shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached
to the ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same
premises for more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
Whenever the words "dwelling", "dwelling unit", "bed and breakfast", "rooming
unit", "premises" are used in this chapter they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words "or any part thereof". (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969;
amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
7-5-2: INSPECTION:
The Codes Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and directed to make
inspections to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
units and premises located within the City, in order that they may perform
their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of dwellings
and of the general public. For the purpose of making such inspections the Codes
Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all
reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises. In
the event the owner or occupant of any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
or the person in charge thereof, refuses to give the Codes Enforcement Officer
free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its premises,
at any reasonable time for the purpose of such inspection, examination and
survey, then, and in that event, the Codes Enforcement Officer may apply for a
search warrant for such inspection from a court of competent jurisdiction when
it is reasonably believed, and probable cause exists, that any provision of
this chapter is being violated. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code)
7-5-3: ENFORCEMENT; HEARINGS:
Whenever the Codes Enforcement Officer determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, he shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or
persons responsible therefor. Such notice shall:
   (A)   Be put in writing;
   (B)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
   (C)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
   (D)   Be served upon the owner or his agent, or the occupant, as the case
may require;
Provided, that such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon such
owner or agent, or upon such occupant, if a copy thereof is served upon him
personally; or if a copy thereof is sent by registered mail to his last known
address; or if a copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
dwelling affected by the notice; or if he is served with such notice by any
other method authorized or required under the laws of this State.
Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with the
enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Codes Enforcement Officer; provided, that such person shall
file in the Office of the Codes Enforcement Officer a written petition
requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds
therefor within ten (10) days after the date the notice was served. Upon
receipt of such petition the Codes Enforcement Officer shall set a time and
place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At
such hearing the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to
show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be
commenced not later than ten (10) days after the date on which the petition was
filed; provided, that upon application of the petitioner the Codes Enforcement
Officer may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such
ten (10) day period, if in his judgment the petitioner has submitted a good and
sufficient reason for such postponement.
After such hearing the Codes Enforcement Officer shall sustain, modify or
withdraw the notice, depending upon his finding as to whether the provisions of
this chapter and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have
been complied with. If the Codes Enforcement Officer sustains or modifies such
notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any notice served pursuant to this
section shall automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing
is not filed in the Office of the Codes Enforcement Officer within ten (10)
days after such notice is served. After a hearing in the case of any notice
suspending any permit required by this chapter or by any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, when such notice has been sustained by the Codes
Enforcement Officer, the permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. Any such
permit which has been suspended by a notice shall be deemed to be automatically
revoked if a petition for hearing is not filed in the Office of the Codes
Enforcement Officer within ten (10) days after such notice is served.
The proceedings at such hearing, including the findings and decision of the
Codes Enforcement Officer, shall be summarized, reduced to writing and entered
as a matter of public record in the Office of the Codes Enforcement Officer.
Such record shall also include a copy of every notice or order issued in
connection with the matter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Codes
Enforcement Officer may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of this State.
Whenever the Codes Enforcement Officer finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he may, without notice
or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he deems necessary to meet the
emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Codes Enforcement
Officer shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. After such hearing,
depending upon his finding as to whether the provisions of this chapter and of
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the
Codes Enforcement Officer shall continue such order in effect, or modify or
revoke it. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code)
7-5-4: ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Codes Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to make and, after a public
hearing has been held in accordance with the laws governing the conduct of
public hearings by the Codes Enforcement Officer of the City, to adopt such
written rules and regulations as may be necessary for the proper enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter; provided, that such rules and regulations shall
not be in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. The Codes Enforcement
Officer shall file a certified copy of all rules and regulations which he may
adopt with the Clerk of the City. Such rules and regulations shall have the
same force and effect as the provisions of this chapter, and the penalty for
violation thereof shall be the same as the penalty for violation of the
provisions of this chapter, as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd.
1979 Code)
7-5-5: BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES:
No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a toilet room which affords privacy
to a person within said room and which is equipped with a flush water closet
and a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to a
water and sewer system. The toilet cannot be within a habitable room.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit shall contain, within a room which affords privacy
to a person within said room, a bathtub or shower in good working condition and
properly connected to a water and sewer system.
   (D)   Every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be properly connected with hot and cold water lines.
   (E)   Every dwelling shall have supplied water-heating facilities which are
properly installed and connected with the hot water lines required under the
previous subsection, and are capable of heating water to such a temperature as
to permit adequate amounts of water to be drawn at every required kitchen sink,
lavatory basin, tub or shower at a temperature of not less than one hundred
twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F).
   (F)   The occupants of every dwelling unit shall supply adequate rubbish
storage facilities, adequate garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage
containers.
   (G)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level.
   (H)   The occupants of not more than two (2) dwelling units may share a
single flush water closet, a single lavatory basin, and a single bathtub or
shower if:
      1.   Neither of the two (2) dwelling units contains more than two (2)
rooms; provided, that for the purposes of this subsection, a kitchenette or an
efficiency kitchen with not more than sixty (60) square feet of floor area
shall not be counted as a room; and that
      2.   The habitable area of such dwelling units shall equal not more than
two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor area; and that
      3.   Such water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be in
good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system; and
that
      4.   Such facilities shall be in the same building in which sleeping
units are located and shall be conveniently accessible to the tenants, but
shall not be in any habitable room. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969)
7-5-6: LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING:
No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window on or sky light
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area for every
habitable room shall be at least ten percent (10%) of the floor area of such
room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures are located less than
three feet (3') from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling
of the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors
and shall not be included as contributing to the minimum total window area.
Whenever the only window is the sky light type window in the top of such room,
the total window area of such sky light shall equal at least twelve and one-
half percent (121/2%) of the total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or sky light which
can easily be opened or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal
to at least forty five percent (45%) of the minimum window area size or minimum
sky light type window size, as required in the above subsection, except where
there is supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation and approved
by the Housing Code enforcement authority.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for applicable rooms contained in the above
paragraph, except that no window or sky light shall be required in an
adequately ventilated system which is kept in continuous operation and approved
by the Housing Code enforcement authority.
   (D)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable
of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water
closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of
at least seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F), at a distance three feet (3') above
floor level, under ordinary minimum winter conditions.
   (E)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing
five (5) or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every
public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and
containing not more than four (4) dwelling units may be supplied with
conveniently located light switches, controlling an adequate lighting system
which may be turned on when needed, instead of full-time lighting. (Ord. 69-1,
5-5-1969)
7-5-7: SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE:
No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Every floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall be reasonably weather tight,
water tight and rodent proof; and shall be kept in reasonably sound working
condition and good repair.
   (B)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with electricity and have at
least one electric outlet in each habitable room. Electric wiring and fixtures
shall be properly installed and maintained in safe working condition.
   (D)   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks and obstructions.
   (E)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   (F)   No owner shall occupy or let to another occupant any vacant dwelling
unit unless it is clean, sanitary and fit for human occupancy conforming with
the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969)
7-5-8: MINIMUM SPACE, USE, LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling
unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the
following requirements:
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least one hundred fifty (150)
square feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least one
hundred (100) additional square feet of floor space for every additional
occupant thereof, the floor space to be calculated on the basis of total
habitable room area.
   (B)   In every dwelling unit of two (2) or more rooms, every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least seventy (70)
square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by
more than one occupant shall contain at least fifty (50) square feet of floor
space per each occupant thereof.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two (2) or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be had only by
going through another sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet compartment;
nor shall room arrangements be such that access to a sleeping room can be had
only by going through another sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet
compartment.
   (D)   At least one-half (1/2) of the floor area of every habitable room
shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet (7'); and the floor area of
that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet (5')
shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor
area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible
occupancy thereof.
   (E)   No basement and/or cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or
dwelling unit unless:
      1.   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface run-off water and are insulated against dampness.
      2.   The total of the window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes required under section
7-5-6 of this chapter, except where there is supplied some other device
affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Housing Code enforcement
authority.
      3.   The clear inner height is at least six feet eight inches (6'8") and
no pipes or beams are below six feet (6') from lower level. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-
1969)
7-5-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS, OCCUPANTS:
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units
shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the
shared or public area of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises
thereof which he occupies and controls.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents, in a
clean and sanitary manner.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises. Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a ratproof or reasonably insect proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (F)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
   (G)   Every owner or operator of a building, who permits to be occupied any
dwelling unit, or rooming unit herein under an agreement, expressed or implied,
to the occupants thereof, shall supply heat adequate to maintain therein from
September 15 through May 30 of the following year, a minimum inside temperature
of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) at three feet (3') above floor level based
on outside design temperature in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, shower rooms
and toilet rooms or compartments, between the hours of six thirty o'clock (6:
30) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and not less than sixty degrees
Fahrenheit (60°F) between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six
thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. in all such rooms. Provisions of this subsection
shall not apply where the failure to maintain minimum requirements is caused by
a general shortage of fuel, neglect or malicious act of the occupant, necessary
repairs or alteration, or any cause beyond the control of the owner or
occupant. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969)
7-5-10: BED AND BREAKFASTS:
   (A)   No persons shall operate a bed and breakfast or shall occupy or let to
another for occupancy any bed and breakfast, except in compliance with
provisions of every section of this chapter, except the provisions of
subsections
7-5-5(A) through (G) of this chapter and all of section
7-5-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 2018 Code)
   (B)   No person shall operate a bed and breakfast unless he holds a valid
permit issued by the Codes Enforcement Officer in the name of the operator and
for the specific dwelling or dwelling unit. The operator shall apply to the
Codes Enforcement Officer for such permit which shall be issued by the Codes
Enforcement Officer upon inspection and upon compliance by the operator with
the applicable provisions of this chapter and of any rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereof. The Codes Enforcement Officer shall charge a minimum
of ten dollars ($10.00) yearly for each permit. Each permit shall be displayed
in a conspicuous place within the bed and breakfast at all times. No such
permit shall be transferable. Every person holding such a permit shall give
notice in writing to the Codes Enforcement Officer or the City Clerk of the
City within twenty four (24) hours after having sold, transferred, given away
or otherwise disposed of ownership, or interest in or control of any bed and
breakfast. Every rooming permit shall be dated May 1 and shall expire on April
30 of the year following, unless sooner suspended or revoked as hereinafter
provided. Permits not renewed by May 31 shall be charged a penalty of two
dollars ($2.00) per month for each month overdue. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
   (C)   Any person whose application for a permit to operate a bed and
breakfast has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Codes Enforcement Officer, under the procedure provided by
section
7-5-3 of this chapter.
   (D)   Whenever the inspection of any bed and breakfast indicates that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provision of this
chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Codes
Enforcement Officer shall give notice in writing to the operator of such bed
and breakfast that unless such conditions or practices are corrected within a
reasonable period, to be determined by the Codes Enforcement Officer, the
operator's bed and breakfast permit will be suspended.
At the end of such period, the Codes Enforcement Officer shall reinspect such
bed and breakfast, and if he finds that such conditions and practices have not
been corrected, he shall give notice in writing to the operator that the
latter's permit has been suspended. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such
operator shall immediately cease operation of such bed and breakfast and no
person shall occupy for sleeping or living purposes any rooming unit therein.
   (E)   Any person whose permit to operate a bed and breakfast has been
suspended, or who has received notice from the Codes Enforcement Officer that
his permit is to be suspended unless existing conditions or practices at this
bed and breakfast are corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Codes Enforcement Officer, under the procedure provided
by section
7-5-3 of this chapter. Provided that if no petition for such hearing is filed
within ten (10) days following the day on which such permit was suspended, such
permit shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked.
   (F)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to a sewer and water system approved by the Codes
Enforcement Officer and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each
eight (8) persons or fraction thereof residing within a bed and breakfast,
including members of the operator's family wherever they share the use of said
facilities. Provided, it is a bed and breakfast where rooms are let only to
males, flush urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half (1/2) of the
required number of water closets. All such facilities shall be so located
within the dwelling as to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or
passageway to all persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and
bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot water at all times. No such
facilities shall be located in a basement except by written approval of the
Codes Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
   (G)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain
at least seventy (70) square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at least fifty (50)
square feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
   (H)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of the
State of Illinois and the City of Carthage. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979
Code)
   (I)   The owner or operator of every bed and breakfast shall be responsible
for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings and the
maintenance of a sanitary condition in every other part of the bed and
breakfast; and he shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of
the entire premises where the entire structure or building is leased or
occupied by the operator.
   (J)   Every provision of this chapter which applies to bed and breakfasts
shall also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provision may be
found in conflict with the laws of the State of Illinois or with the lawful
regulations of any State board or agency. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code;
2018 Code)
7-5-11: UNFIT DWELLINGS:
The designation of dwelling or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation and
the procedure for the proscription and placarding of such unfit dwellings or
dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be proscribed as unfit for human habitation or required
to be brought up to standards of this chapter and shall be so designated and
placarded by the Mayor or his designated agents.
      1.   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, insanitary, unsafe or
vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public.
      2.   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public.
      3.   One which because of its general condition or location is
insanitary, or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit proscribed as unfit for human
habitation, and so designated and placarded shall be vacated within a
reasonable time as ordered by the Mayor. Failure to comply with such vacation
order shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been proscribed and placarded
as unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by the Mayor. The
Mayor shall remove such placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the
proscription and placarding action were based have been eliminated.
   (D)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been proscribed as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in the preceding subsection. (Ord. 69-1,
5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code)
7-5-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code
existing on the effective date hereof, the provision which establishes the
higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of
the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code on the
effective date hereof which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and
protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are
hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict
with this chapter. (Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code)
7-5-13: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who maintains as occupant or owns any dwelling, dwelling unit or
premises which does not comply with the requirements of sections
7-5-5,
7-5-6,
7-5-7,
7-5-8,
7-5-9 and
7-5-10 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code)
7-5-14: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, shall upon
conviction be punished by a fine or not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 69-1, 5-5-1969; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Alleys And Public Ways   1
Sidewalks   2
Trees   3
Urban Forest   3A
Public Square   4
Carthage Lake   5
Installation Of Underground Wires   6
Waterworks System   7
Use Of Public And Private Sewers   8
Small Wireless Facilities   9
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Bench Mark Established
8-1-2: Excavations
8-1-3: Obstructing Streets
8-1-4: Use Of Streets By City
8-1-1: BENCH MARK ESTABLISHED:
The base for the City levels for the City is hereby affixed and established
according to the provisions herein contained. The base or datum plane for City
levels shall be one hundred feet (100') below the center of a copper pin,
three-tenths inches (3/10") in diameter, set into the west face of the east
pilaster beside the stone arch forming the entrance to the City Hall in the
City, said City Hall being located on the south side of the public square in
the City, from which plane the grades, which shall hereafter be fixed and
established, are to be computed. Said plane is to be denominated zero. (Ord.
22, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
8-1-2: EXCAVATIONS:
   (A)   Permit Required: No person shall make or cause to be made any cuts or
excavations in, through or under any street, sidewalk, alley or public place in
the City for any purpose whatsoever, without a permit therefor being first
obtained from the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee,
which permit shall not be issued until the applicant has complied with the
provisions of this chapter requiring a bond and deposit. A separate permit
shall be obtained for each cut or excavation made, however, one permit may be
issued to authorize multiple cuts when part of a single project. In such cases,
the fee shall be computed on the basis of the number of openings times the fee
provided in subsection (C) of this section. This section shall not be construed
to prohibit bona fide emergency cuts or excavations when essential to the
preservation of public health, safety or welfare. In such cases, application
for permit to cover emergency cuts or excavations shall be made the first
regular work day following the making of the cut or excavation.
   (B)   Application For Permit: All applications for permit under the
provisions of this chapter shall be signed by the person, or his duly
authorized agent, who desires to do the work designated in the application.
Such application shall not be assignable and no person shall allow his name to
be used to obtain a permit for any other person. Applications shall be made on
forms provided for this purpose and approved by the Superintendent of Streets
and/or Water Department employee.
   (C)   Permit Fee: The sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged for
each and every permit issued under this chapter. Such fee shall be paid to the
City Clerk. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
Public utilities having franchises which permit the deduction from franchise
taxes or permit fees and charges shall be issued permits without charge. (Ord.
20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
   (D)   Bond And Liability Insurance: Before any permit referred to in this
chapter shall be issued, the applicant for such permit shall have deposited
with the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee a
performance and maintenance bond, or in the alternative a license and permit
bond, in the penal sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), which bond shall
provide that the permittee shall well and satisfactorily restore the street
opening and guaranteeing said satisfactory restoration for a period of one year
after same is made. If the permittee anticipates requesting more than one
permit per year as required by this section, he may furnish one continuing bond
as aforesaid in the penal sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), unless a
larger bond is required by the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water
Department employee. (If said $2,000.00 bond is not deemed adequate by the
Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee, he may require an
increase in the amount thereof promised upon the estimated cost of restoring
the street opening or openings.) (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018
Code)
In addition to the above requirement, the permittee shall, before the permit is
issued, furnish the City Clerk with a certificate of insurance showing the
liability coverage of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
personal injury and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for property
damage. Such certificate of insurance shall indicate that the permittee has
purchased contractual liability insurance to comply with the following
indemnifying agreement, namely: to indemnify and hold the City, its agents,
employees and servants absolutely whole and harmless from, on account of and
against all claims, demands or suits which may be brought by any person or
persons arising out of any acts or work done pursuant to the award of such
permit to the permittee notwithstanding that such claim, demand or suit may be
the result of negligence of someone other than the permittee or his
subcontractor. (Ord. 78-19, 12-12-1978; amd. 2018 Code)
Self-insured corporations may deposit a hold-harmless agreement in a form
approved by the City Attorney. (1979 Code)
   (E)   Deposit: Before any permit under this chapter shall be issued, the
applicant for such permit shall have deposited with the City Clerk the sum of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) lawful money of the United States and this money
shall be maintained and held, and shall constitute a special deposit, the
object and general purpose of such deposit being to protect the City on account
of any expense it may incur in repairing, refilling, paving or resurfacing any
cut or excavation that may be made in the streets, sidewalks, alleys or public
places.
After the aforesaid deposit is made, no applicant or grantee shall be required
to make any additional deposit for additional excavation permits; provided,
that the deposit must be kept intact at all times, and provided further, that
when the City is required to use any part of the cash deposit for any purpose
under this chapter, no applicant shall be entitled to further permits until
such deposit is again restored to five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Any person desiring to withdraw the five hundred dollar ($500.00) deposit shall
notify the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee who shall
certify to the City Clerk as to the amount of any unexpended balance of such
deposit, together with a statement of any charge due the City growing out of
any liability herein provided for, and, after deducting all lawful charges due
or to become due to the City, the balance shall be returned to such person.
(1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
Public utilities having franchise obligations to restore and maintain street
cuts and excavations shall not be required to make a cash deposit.
   (F)   Time Limit: Each cut or excavation for which a permit is granted under
this chapter shall be begun within thirty (30) days from the date of issuance
of the permit therefor unless an extension of time is granted by the City Clerk
and, in the event of default thereof, a new permit shall be required before the
cut or excavation is made.
   (G)   Cutting Pavement And Excavation: The person making a cut or excavation
shall cause the same to be done with the least possible injury to the street,
sidewalk, alley or public place and shall place the removed paving material and
excavated earth therefrom in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the public and to permit uninterrupted passage of water along
the gutters. The width of the cut or excavation shall be not greater than that
necessary for doing the work. (1979 Code)
   (H)   Refilling Of Excavations: The person making a cut or excavation in,
through or under any street, sidewalk, alley or public place in the City shall
notify the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee of his
intention to commence the refill of such cut or excavation at least four (4)
hours prior to the actual commencing thereof. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
Refilling of all cuts or excavations made in any street, sidewalk, alley or
public place in the City shall be made by one of the following methods:
      1.   Refilling with clean unfrozen earth free from trash, rubbish or
rocks over three inches (3") in maximum dimension, in layers not exceeding six
inches (6") in height and compacting each layer thoroughly.
      2.   Refilling with inundated sand to the grade of the base of the
existing pavement. On unpaved streets, sand backfill may be used to within
eight inches (8") of the grade of the street, and clean unfrozen earth shall be
used for the top eight inches (8"), such earth refill to be thoroughly
compacted. (1979 Code)
      3.   With the permission of the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water
Department employee refilling with clean unfrozen earth free from trash,
rubbish or rocks over three inches (3") in maximum dimension properly jetted or
puddled with water to produce maximum compaction; provided, that such earth is
of a type suitable to be thoroughly compacted by such method.
If, upon inspection prior to paving, the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water
Department employee determines that the backfill is not satisfactory, he shall
have the right either to order the backfill removed and replaced, or to take
out all of the filled material from the excavation and to have the same
refilled at the expense of the person to whom the permit was issued, and to
charge the cost thereof against the deposit belonging to the aforesaid person.
The Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee, upon giving
prior notice to the person to whom the permit is issued, shall have the right
to make any and all refills and to require the reimbursement of the cost
thereof from the person making the excavation by charging the cost thereof
against the deposit belonging to the aforesaid person.
The person making the backfill shall be required to clean up and haul away all
surplus earth, rock and rubbish within one working day following the day on
which the backfill shall have been completed, and in the event of default
thereof, the Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee shall
have the right to remove such earth, rock and rubbish and charge the cost
thereof against the deposit of the person to whom the permit was issued.
In the event of settlement due to defective backfill or surfacing, occurring
within two (2) years after the completion of the repaving, the Superintendent
of Streets and/or Water Department employee shall have the right either to
order the permittee to correct the deficiency or to make whatever repairs are
required to restore the excavation to a proper condition and to charge the cost
thereof against the deposit of the person to whom the permit was issued.
   (I)   Repaving And Resurfacing: Insofar as is consistent with generally
accepted engineering practice, the surface of any excavation or cut made in any
street, sidewalk, alley or public place shall be restored with materials and in
a manner comparable to that of the pavement or other surface removed. The
Superintendent of Streets and/or Water Department employee may, in his
discretion and for cause, permit the repaving or resurfacing of a cut or
excavation with materials unlike those removed. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
   (J)   Protective Measures: Every person who shall for any purpose make or
cause to be made any excavation in, upon, under or adjoining any street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place, and shall leave any part or portion
thereof open, or shall leave any part or portion thereof obstructed with
rubbish, building or other material during the nighttime shall cause the same
to be enclosed with good, substantial and sufficient barriers not less than
three feet (3') high and shall cause one or more warning flashing lights, of
amber color and six inches (6") minimum diameter to be securely and
conspicuously posted on or near such excavation, building material or other
obstruction, provided that if such excavation or obstruction extends more than
ten feet (10') but less than fifty feet (50') in length, two (2) warning lights
shall be used with one place at each end, and provided further, that one
additional light shall be placed for each additional fifty feet (50') or part
thereof. Such light shall be kept burning from sunset to sunrise. (1979 Code)
No person shall excavate the full width of any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place, except when in the opinion of the Superintendent of Streets and/
or Water Department employee convenience and necessity will be better served
thereby; in such cases it shall be the duty of the permittee to maintain a
substantial walkway or driveway across such excavation until it is refilled.
(1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
   (K)   Sidewalk Excavations By Property Owners: Whenever any property owner
or any person representing him, shall have stated in his application for a
permit to excavate through or under any sidewalk, that he desires to repair
such sidewalk himself, or by his representative, and that he will guard such
excavation or defective sidewalk until such repairs are made, by barricades and
lights as provided in this chapter, and that such sidewalk shall be repaired
within forty eight (48) hours after the excavation through or under such
sidewalk has been completed, then such property owner or his representative
shall have the right to repair such sidewalk provided such repair is made in
accordance with all applicable requirements of the City. (1979 Code)
   (L)   Rules And Regulations: The Superintendent of Streets and/or Water
Department employee, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, may prescribe
such rules and regulations to be followed and performed by any person engaged
in excavating public streets, sidewalks, alleys and public places as may be
necessary for the safety and convenience of the public and the proper handling
and dispatch of the work; provided, however, that no rules or regulations shall
be contrary to the provisions of this or any other City Code provisions. (1979
Code; amd. 2018 Code)
   (M)   Form Of Applications And Permits: Applications and permits shall be
issued in such form as may be prescribed from time to time by the City Council.
(1979 Code)
   (N)   Penalties: Any person violating any provisions of this section shall
be fined no less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
that a violation has been committed or continues. (1979 Code; amd. 2018 Code)
8-1-3: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
   (A)   Obstruction Of Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person, in any
manner, to obstruct the streets, alleys, highways, sidewalks or public grounds,
or to do any act whereby the public travel is obstructed. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908;
amd. 1979 Code)
   (B)   Placing, Erecting Obstructions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or erect or cause to be
placed or erected in any street, lane, alley, avenue, or other public ground in
the City any building, fence, logs, lumber, wood or other obstructions. (Ord.
96-7, 10-8-1996)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or erect or cause to be
placed or erected in any street, lane, alley, avenue or other public ground in
the City any trash or refuse receptacle, including residential or construction
dumpsters or receptacles and any trash cans for a period longer than twenty
four (24) consecutive hours without the specific permission of the
Superintendent of Streets of the City. (Ord. 96-7, 10-8-1996; amd. 2018 Code)
   (C)   Failure To Abate Obstructions: Any person having made or caused to be
made, or assisted in the making of any obstruction within the meaning of the
preceding subsection or who shall continue the same, or shall fail or neglect
to abate or remove the same, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to penalty.
   (D)   Building Materials In Street: Any person building or improving any lot
may, by obtaining the written permission of the Superintendent of Streets,
deposit materials contiguous to such building or lot for such length of time as
the Superintendent of Streets may deem sufficient for the completion or
erection of such improvements; but in such case, enough of the street, highway
or sidewalk must be left unobstructed for the passage of vehicles in the street
and of persons on the sidewalk.
   (E)   Permit To Place Wood On Sides Of Streets: The Superintendent of
Streets may permit wood purchased to be placed upon the sides of the streets,
and there be cut up for use; provided, that no such permit shall extend in any
case longer than one week.
   (F)   Drays, Carts: All drays, carts, wagons or other vehicles laden or
unladen when making temporary or other stoppages in the streets or highways of
the City, shall be placed by the driver thereof, or those having charge of the
same, on either side of such street or highway so as to leave a free and open
passage for all other vehicles and conveyances in the center thereof.
   (G)   Injuring Bridges, Culverts: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully destroy or injure any bridge, culvert, sewer, crossing or sidewalks or
any portion thereof, or to aid, assist or abet the same 1 .
   (H)   Changing Grade: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove earth or
substance from the sidewalk or from any street, alley or highway and thereby
leave the same below the proper grade, or raise the same above the established
grade without having first obtained permission of the Superintendent of
Streets.
   (I)   Refusal To Remove Obstruction: It shall be unlawful for any person
having any street, alley or highway within the City or any portion thereof
enclosed or obstructed, to refuse to open the same within such reasonable time
as he may be notified so to do by the Superintendent of Streets.
   (J)   Obstructing Ground Given For Public Use: Whenever any addition or
subdivision of land to the City shall be made, and thereby any street, highway,
avenue, alley or public way or ground for public use as a park or other purpose
is platted, given or dedicated to or for the use of the public or as such is
entitled to be held or used, the owner, occupant or person having the same or
any part thereof enclosed or obstructed, shall, without previous notice thereof
given, upon the order, direction, resolution or ordinance of the City Council,
or upon notice given by the Superintendent of Streets, open for public use such
street, highway, avenue, alley or public way or ground or the part thereof
enclosed or obstructed, and also remove therefrom and free the same of all
enclosure or obstruction thereon. Upon failure so to do, the Superintendent of
Streets shall proceed and cause such street, highway, avenue, alley, way or
ground, or part or parts thereof enclosed or obstructed to be opened for the
public use, shall remove all enclosures or obstructions thereon, and place the
same in a proper, safe and suitable condition; and such owner or occupant or
person having any such street, highway, avenue, alley, way or ground, or part
thereof enclosed or obstructed shall, in addition to the penalty provided, be
liable to the City for all necessary costs and expense of such opening, and
removing the enclosure and obstruction, to be recovered in the same action
wherein the fine or penalty is recovered, if declared therefor, therein or in a
separate action brought to recover such costs and expense.
   (K)   Refusal To Open Enclosure: Any such owner, occupant or person who has
any such street, highway, avenue, alley, way or ground, or any part thereof
enclosed or obstructed who shall, when so required or directed, fail, neglect
or refuse to open the same, or the part or parts enclosed or obstructed, or
remove therefrom any enclosure; or any person who shall in any way or manner
prevent or attempt to prevent the Superintendent of Streets or anyone acting
under or by his directions from performing any or either of the duties required
of him by subsection (J) of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
   (L)   Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public
street or alley.
   (M)   Private Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale; or to write or mark any sign or advertisement on any such
pavement, without the permission of the City Council. (1979 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-2-19 of this Code.
8-1-4: USE OF STREETS BY CITY:
The Waterworks and Sewage Department is given full and complete authorization
to use the streets, alleys, rights-of-way or any other property of the City for
the purpose of installation and maintenance of varied water and/or sewer lines,
water supplies and water treatment facilities.
The installation, repair or replacement of any private driveways that cross
City property shall be the full responsibility of the property owner and the
City shall not have any responsibility in such installation, repair or
replacement.
The City will repair and replace private driveways that cross City property
that are gravel and/or asphalt if such repair or replacement is necessary as
the result of installation of utility services approved by the City. This
provision will not apply to any driveways that cross City property that are
composed of concrete. (Ord. 2000-20, 3-27-2001)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Construction Materials
8-2-2: Liability For Payment
8-2-3: Supervision Of Construction; Grade
8-2-4: Sidewalk Specifications
8-2-5: Reserved
8-2-6: Reserved
8-2-7: Obstructing Sidewalk
8-2-8: Temporary Obstructions
8-2-9: Reserved
8-2-10: Removal Of Filth, Ice And Snow
8-2-11: Animals On Sidewalks
8-2-12: Awnings, Sheds, Signs
8-2-13: Gate Or Door Obstructing Sidewalk
8-2-1: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS:
Any sidewalk that shall be laid and constructed within the City limits shall be
composed of good hard brick or concrete or other permanent material
satisfactory to the Public Works Committee of the City Council. (Ord. 20, 12-5-
1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
8-2-2: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
When a new or replacement sidewalk is needed and is laid and constructed in the
City in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the City shall pay the
costs of the construction materials of such sidewalk and the owner or owners of
the adjoining or abutting property shall pay the costs of labor for such
sidewalk in front of or along the property of such owner or owners. (Ord. 20,
12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
8-2-3: SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION; GRADE:
All sidewalks in the City shall be laid and constructed under the direction of
the Public Works Committee of the Council and where such sidewalks are
constructed of brick, concrete or other permanent material, they shall be
constructed in accordance with the grade which shall be established by the City
Council. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
8-2-4: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
Where any sidewalk is constructed of brick there shall be brick set on end on
both sides of such walk, and under and next to all sidewalks so constructed of
brick there shall be twelve inches (12") of sand which shall be well tamped
every four inches (4").
All sidewalks laid and constructed in the City, of brick, concrete or other
permanent material shall incline towards the curbing at a grade of one inch
(1") where the width of such sidewalk does not exceed four feet (4'), and in
the same proportions where such walk exceeds the width of four feet (4') and
the inner line of all such walks shall be six inches (6") from the lot line.
(Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
All sidewalks constructed in the City shall be four feet (4') in width, except
the walk around the public or court house square. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd.
1979 Code; 2018 Code)
8-2-5: RESERVED:
(2018 Code)
8-2-6: RESERVED:
(2018 Code)
8-2-7: OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed upon any
improved sidewalk of the City any obstructions, or to neglect to remove the
same within twenty four (24) hours after notice or request to remove the same
by any officer or citizen of the City. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
8-2-8: TEMPORARY OBSTRUCTIONS:
The City Council of the City may permit temporary obstruction of the sidewalks
by merchants and others receiving or selling boxes of merchandise, groceries or
other articles of trade provided that sufficient room is left for the passage
of persons and the same shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours. (Ord.
20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
8-2-9: RESERVED:
(2018 Code)
8-2-10: REMOVAL OF FILTH, ICE AND SNOW:
The occupants of all lots, parts of lots, tracts or parcels of land within the
City, whether laid or platted into lots or not, if occupied, and the owners
thereof, if not occupied, in front of which the sidewalk is or may be improved
shall keep the same free from all filth, ice, snow or any other impediment
which may accumulate thereon; and shall without notice, remove the same within
twelve (12) hours after accumulating. Any such occupant or owner neglecting or
otherwise failing to comply with the requirements of this section in any
respect shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty, and
shall be liable for the expenses of removing such accumulation by the
Superintendent of Streets or in case of his absence, sickness or disability,
then the same shall be removed by any person appointed by the Mayor, either
before or after conviction. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
8-2-11: ANIMALS ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to lead or drive any horse, mare or beast,
or drive any wagon or other vehicle upon any sidewalk of the City except in
crossing into premises occupied by such person or his employer, and then only
at the proper crossing or to hitch or fasten any horse or other animal on or
upon any improved sidewalk or so near to such walk that such horse or other
animal shall get upon such walk; or to leave any horse, mare, beast of burden,
team, wagon or other vehicle on or across any crossing of any streets or
highway. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
8-2-12: AWNINGS, SHEDS, SIGNS:
   (A)   All awnings or sheds over the sidewalk around the public square shall
be supported with posts or supports of sufficient size and strength to guard
against danger from the same falling. They shall be made as nearly uniform as
possible. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
   (B)   The Codes Enforcement Officer shall give directions as to all awnings
or sheds to be built, so as to have them as nearly uniform as may be; but
anyone feeling aggrieved by any order or requirement of the Codes Enforcement
Officer may be heard by the City Council when in session, and its order shall
be final in the premises. No awning or shed shall be built lower than eight
feet (8') above the sidewalk.
   (C)   No person shall be permitted to suspend any sign over or across any
sidewalk unless the same shall be at least eight feet (8') above the sidewalk,
and any person who shall violate this subsection shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor; and the Codes Enforcement Officer shall take down all awnings or
sheds or cross signs which may be built or placed less than eight feet (8')
above the sidewalk.
   (D)   Whenever any awning, shed or sign shall become dangerous from decay of
material or any other cause the Codes Enforcement Officer shall notify the
owner or occupant of the premises to repair or take the same down; and if any
owner or occupant shall neglect to comply with such notice within a reasonable
time thereafter, he shall be subject to penalty of not less than the cost and
expense of taking the same down; and it is made the duty of said Codes
Enforcement Officer to abate such nuisances after such reasonable notice has
been given, and to institute proceedings to collect the fine therefor and the
expense of the abatement. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
8-2-13: GATE OR DOOR OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or hang any gate, door or other
obstruction so as to open on or swing across any sidewalk in the City. It shall
be the duty of every person occupying any premises in the City where there are
gates or doors which open outward, existing prior to the effective date hereof,
and when open form an obstruction to the free passage of any sidewalk, to cause
such doors or gates to be kept closed except when being used in passing in or
out of such premises. (Ord. 20, 12-5-1908; amd. 1979 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TREES
SECTION:
8-3-1: In General
8-3-1-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Tree Regulations
8-3-2-1: Purpose And Intent
8-3-2-2: Tree Board; Establishment; Composition; Appointment Of Members; Duties
8-3-2-3: Enforcement
8-3-2-4: Permits
8-3-2-5: Abuse, Mutilation Or Injury
8-3-2-6: Public Nuisances
8-3-2-7: Interference With City Personnel
8-3-2-8: Violation And Penalty
8-3-3: Tree Trimming And Removal
8-3-3-1: Trimming And Removal
8-3-3-2: Required Fee
8-3-3-3: Term
8-3-3-4: Liability Insurance
8-3-3-5: Revocation
8-3-4: Shrubs
8-3-4-1: Enforcement
8-3-4-2: Permits
8-3-4-3: Public Nuisances
8-3-4-4: Interference With City Personnel
8-3-4-5: Violation And Penalty
8-3-1: IN GENERAL:
8-3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
in this section:
   ARBORICULTURE SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARD OF PRACTICE FOR CARTHAGE, ILLINOIS
(Hereinafter ARBORICULTURE SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL): Means a manual prepared by
the Tree Board pursuant to this chapter containing regulations and standards
for the planting, maintenance and removal of trees upon City-owned property.
City-owned property means property within the corporate limits of the City of
Carthage, Illinois, and: a) owned by the City in fee simple absolute; or b)
implicitly or expressly dedicated to the public for present or future use for
purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or for public easements; or c)
owned or controlled by the City and other governmental entities for parks,
green belt, open space or other public purposes.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Means City Administrator or his/her designee.
   INSECT PESTS: Means insects, crustaceans, arachnids, and vermin injurious to
plants, plant products, animals and man.
   PARKWAY: Means that part of a street or highway not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
   PERSON: Means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
association, society or any unit of government.
   PLANT DISEASES: Means fungi, bacteria, nematodes, protozoans and viruses
injurious to plants and plant products and the pathological condition in plants
and plant products caused by fungi, bacteria, nematodes, protozoans and
viruses.
   PROPERTY LINE: Means the outer edge of a street or highway.
   PROPERTY OWNER: Means the record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel
of land.
   PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Means any person, firm, corporation, partnership or
other entity which owns, controls, operates or manages, directly or indirectly,
any plant equipment or property used or to be used for or in connection with
the production, storage, transmission, sale, delivery or furnishing of heat,
cold, power, electricity, water, light, telephone, telegraph, television,
sewerage, natural gas or similar service.
   SHRUB: Means a low usually multiple-stemmed woody plant.
   TREES: Means a perennial plant having a woody, self-supporting main stem or
trunk, ordinarily growing to a considerable height and usually developing
branches at some distances from the ground. This definition is not intended to
preclude any species which is traditionally considered to be classified as a
tree.
   VISIBILITY TRIANGLE: Is the triangular area formed by the intersecting lot
lines nearest the street intersection, and a straight line joining said lot
lines at points which are twenty feet (20') distant from the point of
intersecting lot lines. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-2: TREE REGULATIONS:
8-3-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section
 8-3-2 to promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare by
providing for the regulation of the planting, maintenance and removal of trees
within the City.
   (B)   Intent: It is the intent of the City Council that the terms of this
section
8-3-2 shall be construed so as to promote:
      1.   The planting, maintenance and retention of desirable trees and the
removal of undesirable trees within the City; and
      2.   The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage, and the protection of the City from property damage caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance, or removal of trees located
within the community; and
      3.   The establishment of a tree authority for the purpose of fulfilling
the above. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-2-2: TREE BOARD; ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS;
DUTIES:
   (A)   Establishment: The Carthage Tree Board (hereinafter "Tree Board") is
hereby established. Its functions and duties are limited to those set forth in
this section
8-3-2.
   (B)   Composition: The Tree Board shall consist of a minimum of five (5)
members who shall all be residents and citizens of the City. All members of the
Tree Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Appointment Of Members: One of the five (5) members initially
appointed to the Tree Board shall serve for a term of one year; two (2) of the
five (5) members initially appointed shall serve for a term of three (3) years.
The Mayor shall designate the initial term of each member at the time of his or
her appointment. Thereafter the members of the Tree Board shall be appointed
for a three-year term. Terms shall start on a common date. The Mayor shall
designate the Chairperson of the Tree Board. Members shall be eligible to
succeed themselves.
   (D)   Expiration Or Vacation Of Term: Within thirty (30) days following the
expiration of the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. Should a vacancy occur
in any position on the Tree Board, a successor shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council. A member of the Tree Board may
be removed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (E)   Duties: The Tree Board shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Within a reasonable time after the appointment of the Tree Board,
upon call of its Chairperson, the Tree Board shall meet and adopt rules of
procedure for regular and special meetings to fulfill the duties imposed upon
it under this section
8-3-2.
      2.   The Tree Board shall advise the City Council on any matters
pertaining to this section
8-3-2 and its enforcement. The Tree Board shall be responsible for making
recommendations to the City Council for all City regulations concerning trees,
including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Development, alteration and revision of the Arboriculture
Specifications Manual; and
         (b)   Development, alteration and revision of an urban forestry plan
for the City; and
         (c)   Recommendation for amendments to this section
8-3-2 and for enactment of additional ordinances concerning trees; and
         (d)   Establishment of policy concerning selection, planting,
maintenance and removal of trees; and
         (e)   Establishment of educational and informational programs.
      3.   The Tree Board, upon request of any person who disagrees with the
decision of the Enforcement Officer, shall hear all issues of the disputes
which arise between the Enforcement Officer and any such person. Whenever these
issues involve matters of the interpretation or enforcement of the
Arboriculture Specifications Manual, the Urban Forestry Plan, or of the
interpretation or enforcement of this section
 8-3-2, including disputes regarding the issues of permits, or the concurrence
or nonconcurrence of the Enforcement Officer in permits required under other
ordinances or laws, or the abatement of nuisances, the decision of a majority
of the members of the Tree Board shall be binding on the Enforcement Officer.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the jurisdiction of any
court with respect to such disputes. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-2-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Designation Of Enforcement Officer: The administration and enforcement
of this section
8-3-2 shall be conducted by the Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Duties:
      1.   The Enforcement Officer shall make available to any interested
person copies of this section
 8-3-2, information about the activities of the Tree Board, copies of the
Arboriculture Specifications Manual, and copies of the Urban Forestry Plan.
      2.   The Enforcement Officer shall administer this section
8-3-2, the Arboriculture Specifications Manual, and the Urban Forestry Plan.
      3.   The Enforcement Officer shall issue such permits as are required by
this section
8-3-2 and shall obtain as a condition precedent to the issuance of such permits
the written agreement of each person who applies for such permits that he or
she will comply with the requirements of this section
8-3-2, the Urban Forestry Plan, and the regulations and standards of the
Arboriculture Specifications Manual.
The Enforcement Officer shall have the right to inspect all work performed
pursuant to such permits. If the Enforcement Officer finds that the work
performed is not in accordance with the requirements of this section
8-3-2, the Urban Forestry Plan, or the regulations of the Arboriculture
Specifications Manual, the Enforcement Officer shall provide written notice of
its findings to the permit applicant. After delivery of such notice, the
Enforcement Officer may:
         (a)   Declare the permit null and void; and
         (b)   Issue a written order that the permit applicant cease and desist
all work for which the permit was required; and
         (c)   Apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for a penalty as
prescribed by this section
8-3-2; and
         (d)   Take steps to correct the results of the noncomplying work and
the reasonable costs of such steps shall be charged to the permit applicant.
(Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-2-4: PERMITS:
   (A)   Scope Of Requirements: No person, except the Enforcement Officer, or
other authorized City employee, a contractor hired by the City, or a public
utility company and their authorized agents and contractors may perform any of
the following acts without first obtaining from the Enforcement Officer a
permit for which no fee shall be charged, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to exempt any person from the requirements of obtaining any
additional permits as are required by law.
      1.   Plant on City-owned property, or treat, prune, remove, or otherwise
disturb any tree located on City-owned property, except that this provision
shall not be construed to prohibit owners of property adjacent to City-owned
property from watering or fertilizing without a permit any tree located on such
City-owned property;
      2.   Trim, prune, or remove any tree or portion thereof if such tree or
portions thereof reasonably may be expected to fall on City-owned property
thereby to cause damage to persons or property;
      3.   Place on City-owned property, either above or below ground level, a
container for trees.
   (B)   Issuance: Within seven (7) days of receipt of a permit application,
the Enforcement Officer shall issue a permit to perform (within 30 days of the
day of issuance), any of the acts specified in subsection (A) of this section
and this subsection (B), for which a permit is required. A permit is required
whenever:
      1.   Such acts would result in the abatement of a public nuisance; or
      2.   Such acts are not inconsistent with the development and
implementation of the Urban Forestry Plan or with the regulations or standards
of the Arboriculture Specifications Manual; and whenever
      3.   An application has been signed by the applicant and submitted to the
Enforcement Officer detailing the location, size, number, and species of trees
that will be affected by such acts, setting forth the purpose of such acts and
the methods to be used and presenting any additional information that the
Enforcement Officer may find reasonably necessary;
      4.   The applicant agrees to perform the work for which the permit is
sought in accordance with the provisions of this section
8-3-2, the Urban Forestry Plan and the regulations and standards set forth in
the Arboriculture Specifications Manual; and
      5.   The applicant certifies that he or she has read and understands
those provisions of this section
 8-3-2, the Urban Forestry Plan and the Arboriculture Specifications Manual
which are pertinent to the work for which the permit is sought; and
      6.   If the work for which a permit is issued entails the felling of any
tree or part thereof, located on private property, which as a result of such
felling reasonably may be expected to fall upon City-owned property, and if
such felling is done by one other than the owner of the property on which such
felling is done, then the applicant shall agree to indemnify and to hold the
City harmless from all damages resulting from work conducted pursuant to the
permit and shall deposit with the City Clerk a liability insurance policy in
the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person, three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per accident for bodily injury and fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) aggregate for property damage liability or in the
total amount of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) if such policy
provides single limit coverage which policy shall name the City as an
additional insured.
   (C)   Public Utility Companies: Public utility companies shall notify the
Enforcement Officer prior to the initiation of pruning cycles which will
involve trees located on City-owned property for the purpose of maintaining
safe line clearance. The notice shall state the estimated time frame of the
pruning cycle as well as the planned locations in the City where the work will
be performed. All pruning work shall be carried out in accordance with accepted
arboriculture standards. Public utility companies shall also notify the
Enforcement Officer prior to the installation or maintenance of underground
utilities if such activity will occur within the dripline of trees located on
City- owned property. In the case of severe storms, natural disasters or other
emergency situations, a public utility company may perform any required pruning
or underground utility maintenance necessitated by such situation and
thereafter notify the Enforcement Officer of the work performed. (Ord. 2014-12,
1-13-2015)
8-3-2-5: ABUSE, MUTILATION OR INJURY:
No person, without lawful authority, shall willfully injure, deface, disfigure,
cut, care, transplant, remove, destroy, attach any rope, wire, nail,
advertising posters, election posters or other contrivance to any tree, allow
any gaseous, liquid, chemical or solid substance which is harmful to such tree
to come in contact with it; set fire to, or permit any fire to burn when such
fire or the heat therefrom will injure any portion of any tree located on City-
owned property; or cause reasonably avoidable damage to the root system by
excavation, trenching, or tunneling. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-2-6: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   (A)   Public Nuisances: The following are hereby declared public nuisances
under this section
8-3-2:
      1.   Any dead or near dead tree, whether located on City-owned property
or on private property.
      2.   Any otherwise healthy tree whether located on City-owned property or
on private property which harbors insect pests or plant diseases which
reasonably may be expected to injure or harm any tree.
      3.   Any tree or portion thereof whether located on City-owned property
or on private property which by reason of location or condition constitutes an
imminent danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public.
      4.   (a) Any tree or portion thereof whether located on City-owned
property or on private property which obstructs the free passage of pedestrians
or vehicular traffic or which obstructs a street light or traffic control
device;
         (b)   All large established trees shall be pruned to the following
height to allow free passage of pedestrians and vehicular traffic: At least
seven feet (7') over sidewalks and a minimum clearance of fourteen feet (14')
over all streets.
      5.   (a) Any tree or portion thereof whether located on City-owned
property or on private property which obstructs the view at an intersection in
the "visibility triangle".
   (B)   Right To Inspect: The officers, agents, servants, and employees of the
City have the authority to enter upon private property whereon there is located
a tree that is suspected to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement: The following are the prescribed means of abating public
nuisances under this section
8-3-2:
      1.   Any public nuisance under this section
8-3-2 which is located on City-owned property shall be pruned, removed, or
otherwise treated in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement of the
nuisance within a reasonable time after its discovery.
      2.   Any public nuisance under this section
8-3-2 which is located on private property shall be pruned, removed, or
otherwise treated by the property owner or his agent in whatever fashion is
required to cause abatement of the nuisance. No property owner may be found
guilty of violating this provision unless and until the following requirements
of notice have been satisfied:
         (a)   The Enforcement Officer shall cause written notice to be
personally served or sent by certified mail to the person to whom was sent the
tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year;
         (b)   Such notice shall designate the kind of tree, which has been
declared to be a public nuisance, its location on the property, the reason for
declaring it a nuisance;
         (c)   Such notice shall describe by legal description or by street
address of the premises;
         (d)   Such notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance;
         (e)   Such notice shall require the elimination of the nuisance no
less than thirty (30) days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person
to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding
year;
         (f)   Such notice shall reference (include) a copy of this section
8-3-2 and a copy of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-11 and 5/11-20-12 if
applicable and shall also state in bold type as follows:
In the event that the nuisance is not abated by the date specified in the
notice, the enforcement officer is authorized to cause abatement of said
nuisance. The reasonable cost of such abatement shall be filed as a lien
against the property on which the nuisance was located. In addition, the
property owner is subject to prosecution under title 8, chapter 3 of the City
Code.
      3.   The Enforcement Officer is empowered to seek from any court of
competent jurisdiction an order directing immediate abatement of any public
nuisance.
      4.   Without going to court, the Enforcement Officer is empowered to
cause immediate abatement of any public nuisance provided that the nuisance is
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be an immediate threat to any person
or property. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-2-7: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY PERSONNEL:
No person shall unreasonably hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with an
officer, agent, servant or employee of the City while engaged in the execution
or enforcement of this section
 8-3-2. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-2-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this section
8-3-2 or who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to this section
8-3-2, upon being found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each separate offense, each day during which any violation of the
provisions of this section
8-3-2 shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense. If, as a result of
the violation of any provision of this section
8-3-2, the injury, mutilation, or death of a tree located on City-owned
property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement of such tree shall be
borne by the party in violation. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-3: TREE TRIMMING AND REMOVAL:
8-3-3-1: TRIMMING AND REMOVAL:
No person shall fell, cut or trim any tree for hire in Carthage, or engage in
the business of so doing without registering. This shall apply only to the
felling, cutting or trimming of trees, limbs and branches which are four inches
(4") or more in diameter at the point of cutting or severance. (Ord. 2014-12,
1-13-2015)
8-3-3-2: REQUIRED FEE:
Any person desiring to engage in the business of tree trimming and removal (as
defined above) shall first register his/her name, his/her residence and his/her
place of business with the building inspector and pay a registration fee of
twenty dollars ($20.00). (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-3-3: TERM:
The registration required by this section
8-3-3 shall be valid for a period of one year unless sooner revoked as provided
in this section
8-3-3. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-3-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
No person shall be allowed to register under the terms of this section
8-3-3 unless he deposits with the building inspector evidence of liability
insurance issued to him for the full period of registration, such insurance to
be in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage,
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for personal injury to one person
and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for personal injury to more
than one person, or, in lieu thereof, for bodily injury and property damage
combined, three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) each occurrence, three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) aggregate. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-3-5: REVOCATION:
Any person violating the provision of this section
8-3-3 may have his certificate of registration revoked for not more than one
year. Such action may be taken by the Tree Board, upon recommendation by the
building inspector and after a hearing thereon. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-4: SHRUBS:
8-3-4-1: ENFORCEMENT:
The administration and enforcement of this section
8-3-4 shall be conducted by the Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-4-2: PERMITS:
   (A)   Scope Of Requirements: No person, except the Enforcement Officer, or
other authorized City employee, a contractor hired by the City, or a public
utility company and their authorized agents and contractors may perform any of
the following acts without first obtaining from the Enforcement Officer a
permit for which no fee shall be charged, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to exempt any person from the requirements of obtaining any
additional permits as are required by law.
      1.   Plant on City-owned property, or treat, prune, remove, or otherwise
disturb any shrub located on City-owned property, except that this provision
shall not be construed to prohibit owners of property adjacent to City-owned
property from watering or fertilizing without a permit any shrub located on
such City- owned property;
      2.   Trim, prune, or remove any shrub or portion thereof if such shrub or
portions thereof reasonably may be expected to fall on City-owned property
thereby to cause damage to persons or property;
      3.   Place on City-owned property, either above or below ground level, a
container for shrubs.
   (B)   Issuance: Within seven (7) days of receipt of a permit application,
the Enforcement Officer shall issue a permit to perform (within 30 days of the
day of issuance), any of the acts specified in subsection (A) of this section
and this subsection (B), for which a permit is required. A permit is required
whenever:
      1.   Such acts would result in the abatement of a public nuisance; or
      2.   An application has been signed by the applicant and submitted to the
Enforcement Officer detailing the location, size, number, and species of shrubs
that will be affected by such acts, setting forth the purpose of such acts and
the methods to be used and presenting any additional information that the
Enforcement Officer may find reasonably necessary. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-4-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   (A)   Public Nuisances: The following are hereby declared public nuisances
under this section
8-3-4:
      1.   Any dead or near dead shrub, whether located on City-owned property
or on private property.
      2.   Any otherwise healthy shrub whether located on City-owned property
or on private property which harbors insect pests or plant diseases which
reasonably may be expected to injure or harm any tree.
      3.   Any shrub or portion thereof whether located on City-owned property
or on private property which by reason of location or condition constitutes an
imminent danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public.
      4.   Any shrub or portion thereof whether located on City-owned property
or on private property which obstructs the free passage of pedestrians or
vehicular traffic or which obstructs a street light or traffic control device.
      5.   Any shrub or portion thereof whether located on City-owned property
or on private property which obstructs the view at an intersection in the
"visibility triangle".
   (B)   Right To Inspect: The officers, agents, servants, and employees of the
City have the authority to enter upon private property whereon there is located
a shrub that is suspected to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement: The following are the prescribed means of abating public
nuisances under this section
8-3-4:
      1.   Any public nuisance under this section
8-3-4 which is located on City-owned property shall be pruned, removed, or
otherwise treated in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement of the
nuisance within a reasonable time after its discovery.
      2.   Any public nuisance under this section
8-3-4 which is located on private property shall be pruned, removed, or
otherwise treated by the property owner or his agent in whatever fashion is
required to cause abatement of the nuisance. No property owner may be found
guilty of violating this provision unless and until the following requirements
of notice have been satisfied:
         (a)   The Enforcement Officer shall cause written notice to be
personally served or sent by certified mail to the person to whom was sent the
tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year;
         (b)   Such notice shall designate that a shrub, which has been
declared to be a public nuisance, its location on the property, the reason for
declaring it a nuisance;
         (c)   Such notice shall describe by legal description or by street the
premises;
         (d)   Such notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance;
         (e)   Such notice shall require the elimination of the nuisance no
less than ten (10) days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person to
whom the tax bill was sent for the general taxes for the last preceding year;
         (f)   Such notice shall state in bold type as follows:
In the event that the nuisance is not abated by the date specified in the
notice, the enforcement officer is authorized to cause abatement of said
nuisance. The reasonable cost of such abatement shall be filed as a lien
against the property on which the nuisance was located. In addition, the
property owner is subject to prosecution.
      3.   The Enforcement Officer is empowered to seek from any court of
competent jurisdiction an order directing immediate abatement of any public
nuisance.
      4.   Without going to court, the Enforcement Officer is empowered to
cause immediate abatement of any public nuisance provided that the nuisance is
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be an immediate threat to any person
or property. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-4-4: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY PERSONNEL:
No person shall unreasonably hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with an
officer, agent, servant or employee of the City while engaged in the execution
or enforcement of this section
8-3-4. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
8-3-4-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this section
 8-3-4 or who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to this section
8-3-4, upon being found guilty of violation shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each separate offense, each day during which any violation of the
provisions of this section
8-3-4 shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense. If, as a result of
the violation of any provision of this section
8-3-4, the injury, mutilation, or death of a shrub located on City-owned
property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement of such shrub shall be
borne by the party in violation. (Ord. 2014-12, 1-13-2015)
ARTICLE A. URBAN FOREST
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Purpose
8-3A-2: Definitions
8-3A-3: Preservation
8-3A-4: Planting
8-3A-5: Tree Care
8-3A-6: Tree Protection
8-3A-7: Legacy Tree Preservation
8-3A-8: Tree Removal
8-3A-9: Tree Replacement
8-3A-10: Special Rules For Conservancy Or Preservation Areas
8-3A-11: Tree Preservation And/Or Removal Plan For Significant Removals,
Construction And/Or Development
8-3A-12: Arboricultural Specifications And Standard Of Practice Manual
8-3A-13: Nuisance Trees
8-3A-14: Invasive Species Control
8-3A-15: Tree Board
8-3A-16: Tree Permit Procedure
8-3A-17: Permit Issuance
8-3A-18: Cash Bonds
8-3A-19: Final Inspection
8-3A-20: Compliance
8-3A-21: Penalty
8-3A-22: Enforcement
8-3A-23: Exceptions
8-3A-24: Appeals For Variance
8-3A-25: Civil Remedies
8-3A-26: Fees
8-3A-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
This article is structured to preserve, protect and enhance critical
infrastructure - the urban forest that is located on public land. The complete
urban forest is comprised of trees across all land uses and ownership. This
article will regulate public property trees but recognizes that trees on
private property are part of the collective community resource.
The purpose of this article is to recognize the services and function that
trees provide as a collective asset to the entire community and to state the
goals of the City of Carthage with respect to the protection, preservation,
care and planting of trees on public lands.
Specific goals of this article are to:
   (A)   Protect, preserve and enhance the quality of life and general welfare
of the City of Carthage, its residents, and property owners; and conserve and
enhance Carthage's natural, physical and aesthetic environment.
   (B)   Preserve, protect and enhance the urban forest to ensure that trees
are properly planted and maintained within Carthage so that trees can protect,
enhance and preserve the quality of life for people within Carthage.
   (C)   Recognize that trees are an integral part of the infrastructure of
Carthage and as such should be preserved, protected and cared for as other
critical City infrastructure.
      1.   Trees absorb pollution from the air;
      2.   Trees absorb and sequester carbon dioxide;
      3.   Trees absorb and filter pollution from stormwater run-off;
      4.   Trees produce oxygen;
      5.   Trees reduce flooding;
      6.   Trees stabilize soils and reduce erosion;
      7.   Trees cool the surrounding area helping to reduce impacts due to
heat islands;
      8.   Trees reduce energy consumption by shielding structures from harsh
winds and sun;
      9.   Trees provide a buffer and screen against noise, light and
pollution;
      10.   Trees improve property values;
      11.   Trees improve Commercial District buyer traffic;
      12.   Areas with trees have lower crime rates;
      13.   Areas with trees have higher levels of community interaction;
      14.   Trees provide important habitat for birds and other wildlife; and
      15.   Trees protect and enhance our quality of life.
   (D)   Trees provide Carthage collective benefits that extend beyond property
boundaries throughout the entire City.
   (E)   Recognize that larger trees provide larger benefits. When a large tree
is removed and replaced with a smaller tree the benefits and services are
reduced.
   (F)   Recognize that some trees may have a condition that constitutes a
threat, danger or nuisance to the public or property within Carthage or may be
dangerous to the health of other trees and vegetation in the City. (Ord. 2018-
11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   APPLICANT: An owner of a lot, parcel or tract of land for which an
application has been filed for a permit, subdivision, or any activity requiring
the issuance of a permit. A contractor is an agent, acting on behalf of the
applicant - the landowner.
   ARBORICULTURE SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL: A manual prepared by the Tree Board
pursuant to this article containing regulations and standards for the planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees upon City-owned property. Officially called
the Arboriculture Specifications and Standards of Practice for Carthage,
Illinois.
   ARBORIST: Any individual experienced in the profession of forestry or a
related field and is licensed or certified in forestry by an accredited
forestry industry body, e.g., International Society of Arboriculture.
   BUCKTHORN: An undesirable exotic invasive ornamental shrub introduced to
North America. This species inhabits woodlands and savannas where it dominates
the landscape prohibiting the development of native trees and plants. There are
six (6) species of buckthorn listed in the Illinois Exotic Weed Act, which
prohibits the sale, distribution or planting of this species, Rhamnus
cathartica, davurica, frangula, argula, utilis, and japonica.
   BUILDING ACTIVITY AREA: The portion of a property within which development
activity, including grading, excavation, storage of materials, construction
access and construction of both main buildings and unattached structures.
   CANOPY: The upper portion of a tree sometimes called the crown. This section
of the tree usually contains branches and leaves.
   CITY-OWNED PROPERTY: Property within the corporate limits of the City of
Carthage, Illinois, and: a) owned by the City in fee simple absolute; or b)
implicitly or expressly dedicated to the public for present or future use for
purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or for public easements; or c)
owned or controlled by the City and other governmental entities for parks,
green belt, open space, or other public purposes.
   CONSERVANCY OR PRESERVATION AREA (EASEMENT): An area under legal restriction
within which the following requirements are enforced:
   (A)   All existing vegetation shall be preserved for the purpose of
retaining the natural character or special environmental state or control;
   (B)   Any area with a special designation providing screening from adjacent
uses or a public or private street;
   (C)   No plant material shall be removed from or planted in a conservancy or
preservation area without a permit from the City of Carthage authorizing
removal or planting;
   (D)   Conservancy or preservation areas may be established as part of the
subdivision process or through the issuance of a special use permit;
   (E)   No undesignated structures, including fencing shall be located in a
conservancy or preservation area;
   (F)   Other restrictions as defined on the plat; and
   (G)   In all instances the approved language on the plat shall prevail.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: An area on the ground extending out from the trunk of
the tree in all directions a distance of at least one foot (1') for every inch
dbh.
   CUTTING: (A) Felling or removal of a tree, or any procedure that results in
the death or substantial destruction of a tree.
   (B)   Cutting does not include normal pruning or trimming of trees
consistent with good forestry practices.
   DAMAGE: Impact or loss of function to any tree including but not limited to:
removal, root compaction, root removal, girdling, soil contamination, topping,
pruning more than twenty percent (20%) of the trees, canopy removal, bark
removal, poisoning and/or actions resulting in the decline or death of a tree.
   DECIDUOUS TREE: A deciduous tree is one that loses most or all of its leaves
for part of the year.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any proposed change in the use or character of land, including,
but not limited to the replacement of any structure or site improvements, e.g.,
irrigation installation, driveway replacement, installation of a retaining wall
among others. When appropriate to the context, development may refer to the
receipt or necessity of any building, tree or site work permit. See the
Arboricultural Specifications Manual.
   DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT: The diameter of the trunk of the tree measured in
inches at a point 4.5 feet above ground line. This forestry standard
measurement is used for established and mature trees and is referred to as
"dbh". All reference to diameter size shall be to the dbh.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A City Administrator or his/her designee.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONAL: A degreed environmental scientist, biologist,
botanist, forester, other similarly degreed and/or licensed plant professional
with at least five (5) years' experience in planting and maintaining native
plants and their associated natural ecosystems.
   EVERGREEN TREE: A tree that retains most of its leaves for most of the year.
   FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN: A detailed plan developed and approved by the City
of Carthage under the direction of a certified arborist or forester which
protects this valuable infrastructure and outlines thoughtful strategies for
tree planting, selection, care and preservation for the City of Carthage and
complies with recognized national standards.
   FORESTER: An individual trained and experienced in the profession of
forestry who has a forestry degree from an institution of advanced education.
   INFRASTRUCTURE: The basic underlying framework or features that provide
collective services, including but not limited to roads, waterlines, storm
sewers, bioswales, and trees.
   INSECT PESTS: Insects, crustaceans, arachnids, and vermin injurious to
plants, plant products, animals, and man.
   INVASIVE SPECIES: An introduced or exotic species that significantly
modifies or disrupts the ecosystem in which it colonizes (e.g., buckthorn).
   LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR: A company or individual contracted to perform
landscape services.
   LANDSCAPE MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan approved by the City of Carthage outlining
the strategies for care and management of a specific type of landscape. Also
see the Arboricultural Specifications Manual.
   LANDSCAPE PLAN: A plan approved by the City of Carthage defining the
location and species of plants and associated hardscape including grading.
   LANDSCAPING PROFESSIONAL: A registered landscape architect, horticulturalist
or other similarly degreed, experienced and/or licensed plant professional.
   LEGACY TREE: A legacy tree is a tree identified on the legacy tree list and
which has been recorded as such by the City of Carthage. Legacy trees are
provided special protection as outlined in the Legacy Tree Program.
   NATURAL AMENITY EXCEPTION: A landscape and preservation plan intended as a
substitute for the replacement requirements of this article.
   NUISANCE TREES: Nuisance trees are trees that may provide potential impacts
to other trees, people or structures. This would include, but not be limited
to, diseased, infested, structurally unsound trees or known invasive species.
   PARCEL: A single parcel shall mean any lot of record, zoning lot or any
grouping of adjacent lots under single ownership, serving a principal structure
or use.
   PARKWAY: That part of a street or highway not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for vehicular traffic. Also called a boulevard.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
association, society, or any unit of government.
   PLANT DISEASES: Fungi, bacteria, nematodes, protozoans, and viruses
injurious to plants and plant products and the pathological condition in plants
and plant products caused by fungi, bacteria, nematodes, protozoans, and
viruses.
   PREFERRED TREE LIST: A listing of tree species, located in the Carthage
Urban Forest Management Plan.
   PROPERTY LINE: The outer edge of a street or highway.
   PROPERTY OWNER: An individual or organization who owns property located
within the corporate limits of Carthage.
   PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other
entity which owns, controls, operates, or manages, directly or indirectly, any
plant equipment or property used or to be used for or in connection with the
production, storage, transmission, sale, delivery, or furnishing of heat, cold,
power, electricity, water, light, telephone, television, sewerage, natural gas,
or similar service.
   REAR YARD: Rear yard as used in this article, shall have the same meaning as
ascribed to in the Zoning Code.
   REGULATED ARTICLES: Any insects at any living stage of development, any
quarantined materials such as wood products including, but not limited to
chips, limbs, lumber, firewood, contaminated soils, or any other product or
means of conveyance which may be determined by Federal or State Departments of
Agriculture to pose a risk of spread of any infestation or infection.
   SHRUB: A low, typically multi-stemmed woody plant.
   SIGNIFICANT TREE REMOVAL: Removal of a legacy tree or grouping/stand of
trees.
   SIMPLE TREE REMOVAL: Removal of a tree without other associated site impacts
or other site improvements.
   SITE: That parcel of land for which a permit for landscaping or tree removal
is sought.
   STREET TREE: Any tree located on or within the public right-of- way
easement.
   TRANSPLANTING: The removal of any tree for replanting elsewhere.
   TREE: Any self-supporting woody plant, together with its root system, trunk
and canopy; growing upon the earth usually with one trunk, or a multi-stemmed
trunk system, supporting a definitely formed crown.
   TREE ACCOUNT: A bank account established to receive and hold deposits for
trees which were damaged and/or removed. These funds, if not returned to the
applicant, may be used to purchase and care for trees throughout the City of
Carthage.
   TREE PERMIT: A written authorization from the City of Carthage authorizing
the applicant to conduct work which may or may not impact a tree.
   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN: A document required by a permit which identifies, by
common name and/or scientific name, certain species of trees of a specified dbh
within a particular area. The plan shall list all existing and proposed trees
and shall specifically state how each tree is proposed to be destroyed,
relocated, replaced, preserved at its present location, introduced into the
site from an off-site source, and whether the tree is to receive remediated
actions due to construction impacts, e.g., root pruning. The City of Carthage
may provide that the tree preservation plan excludes those portions of the site
which it determines will not be affected by the activity. Any tree preservation
plan required by this article must be dated within thirty six (36) months of
the start date of the proposed activity.
   TREE REMOVAL: The cutting down, destruction, removal or relocation of any
tree, including damaging by poison or other direct or indirect action.
   VIABLE: A tree, which in the judgment of a reasonable person, is capable of
sustaining its own life processes, unaided by man, for a reasonable period of
time.
   VISIBILITY TRIANGLE: The triangular area formed by the intersecting lot
lines nearest the street intersection, and a straight line joining said lot
lines at points which are twenty feet (20') distant from the point of
intersecting lot lines. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-3: PRESERVATION:
   (A)   The City of Carthage shall maintain at least one internal staff member
as a certified arborist.
   (B)   The City of Carthage shall complete a full inventory of trees on City
property by December 31, 2019.
   (C)   The City of Carthage shall develop and implement an urban forest
management plan based on an urban forest inventory. This plan shall include
clear direction for the protection, preservation and planting of the urban
forest and shall be based on the U.S. Forest Service Sustainable Urban Forest
Guide. The plan shall be implemented by 2020.
   (D)   The City of Carthage may require that any contractor, working for the
City who may interact or have impact on Carthage's public property urban forest
utilize a certified arborist for all work pertaining to trees, including but
not limited to removal, pruning and planting activities.
   (E)   Legacy trees are provided special protection by the City of Carthage.
These trees are on public property and are of cultural, historic, or aesthetic
significance as determined by the Carthage Tree Board.
   (F)   All tree planting, selection and management shall be in compliance
with the Carthage Urban Forest Management Plan and the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual.
   (G)   It is recognized that diverse species structure of urban trees
throughout Carthage is critical to the health of the forest structure and
protects the City from catastrophic loss. All tree planting shall comply with
diversity requirements of not more than five percent (5%) of any one species,
ten percent (10%) of any one genus or fifteen percent (15%) of any one family
and shall be conducted in accordance with the most recent edition of American
National Standards Institute.
   (H)   It is recognized that diverse age structure of trees throughout
Carthage is critical to the health of the forest structure and protects the
City from catastrophic loss. Proper care and management of the urban forest is
critical for increased longevity of urban trees and shall be in compliance with
the most recent edition of American National Standards Institute. (Ord. 2018-
11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-4: PLANTING:
   (A)   The City of Carthage shall plant and maintain a healthy diverse urban
forest to improve the natural resources and quality of life for the residents
living within Carthage.
   (B)   The City of Carthage shall plant diverse species with the ratio of not
more than fifteen percent (15%) of any one family, ten percent (10%) of any one
genus or five percent (5%) of any one species. Diverse species composition
protects Carthage from catastrophic loss.
   (C)   All trees planted by Carthage or their agent shall be planted
consistent with the most current edition of American National Standards
Institute.
   (D)   Trees purchased by Carthage shall be of a quality consistent with the
most current American Standards for Nursery Stock as approved by the most
current American National Standards Institute.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in the public right-
of-way, or on other publicly owned property or conservation or preservation
area, without prior written approval from the City of Carthage and, in the
instance of the conservation or preservation area, the language on the recorded
plat shall prevail.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree under utility wires that is
anticipated to grow to a height that will interfere with the wires.
   (G)   The City of Carthage shall consider implementation of a contract
growing program. This contract will allow for stable pricing and broader
species diversity to improve the overall diversity of the urban forest. This
contract may be for a period of five (5) to ten (10) years.
   (H)   The City of Carthage should provide education and outreach to private
landowners on the need for species and age diversity, proper selection and
planting practices, and how to select species for particular sites. (Ord. 2018-
11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-5: TREE CARE:
An urban forestry management plan is a critical document for the care and
preservation of one of the community's most valuable assets. This plan will
define the needs and provide recommendations for the care and planting of trees
throughout the community, including outreach to private property owners to help
them care for their trees. This plan will also outline the budgetary and
staffing needs for management and planting of trees on public property. It is
recommended that the Sustainable Urban Forest Guide, produced by the U.S.
Forest Service, serve as a guide for development of the Carthage Urban Forestry
Management Plan. (See U.S. Forest Service Sustainable Urban Forest Guide.)
   (A)   The City of Carthage shall develop an urban forest management plan
that supports this article. This urban forest management plan shall cover, at a
minimum, a ten (10) year period, including budget projections. This plan shall
be reviewed annually by the City of Carthage staff and members of the Tree
Board and shall be updated as needed to support the needs of Carthage.
   (B)   Until an urban forestry management plan is in place, Carthage shall
provide a standard of care, in compliance with International Society of
Arboriculture practices, where possible, for all publicly owned trees to enable
these trees to live to maturity and provide maximum benefits. This would
include but not be limited to:
      1.   At a minimum, have an established watering program for
implementation during periods when natural rain fall is not adequate to meet
the needs of newly planted trees. Newly planted trees are any trees planted
within five (5) years of the inadequate rainfall.
      2.   Have an established pruning program that places all publicly owned
trees on a 4 - 7 year pruning cycle. Pruning is to be accomplished under the
direction of a certified arborist and in compliance with American National
Standards Institute. Care should be taken to follow Best Management Practices
including but not limited to good sanitation practices to reduce spread of
infectious conditions and restriction of pruning based on species needs, e.g.,
oaks should only be pruned when dormant.
      3.   It is recommended that during the pruning cycle, trees to be pruned
be identified by species, size and location and be rated for health and hazard
potential. A record of this report should be used as a guide for Carthage staff
to address problems and provide care as needed.
      4.   All tree care shall abide by ANSI A300 Standards as outlined in the
Arboricultural Specifications Manual. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-6: TREE PROTECTION:
This section applies to any work being conducted which may impact public
property trees.
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person to remove, injure or undertake any procedure which will cause death,
substantial damage, or create a hazard, to any public property tree without
first obtaining a tree permit from the City of Carthage. In the case of tree
management practices, these practices shall comply with the most recent edition
of the American National Standards Institute.
   (B)   In the event of any site improvement which may impact public property
trees, a Tree Preservation Plan is required, must be approved, and implemented
prior to the start of any work or delivery of any materials to the building
activity area. The approved Tree Preservation Plan shall be available on the
site throughout the entire construction period until final approvals for all
site work shall be received in writing. (See Arboricultural Specifications
Manual.)
   (C)   In instances where construction or site work that requires heavy
equipment and that may impact trees on public or private property, all
appropriate tree protection measures must be taken and identified in the Tree
Preservation Plan.
      1.   Protective fencing is required for protection of any tree to be
preserved in place. Fencing shall be installed at a minimum distance of one
foot (1'), for every inch dbh of the tree, from the trunk of the tree. In the
instances of tree pits, fencing shall be located at the edge of pavement.
      2.   All protective fencing shall be in place before any construction or
material delivery is to take place. All protective fencing shall remain in
place until final approval of all site conditions is given in writing.
      3.   No equipment or materials shall be parked, driven or stored within
the protective fencing area or on the root zone of any tree.
      4.   For projects requiring the use of heavy equipment, such as anything
on which a person would ride with the exception of a riding mower, protective
tree fencing shall be required. This fencing shall be orange snow type fencing,
a minimum of four feet (4') in height and held in place by metal posts driven
into the ground no more than ten feet (10') apart. In the instance of a project
that will take place for more than one year, chain link fencing will be
required. Chain link fencing shall be six feet (6') in height and held in place
by metal posts driven into the ground no more than ten feet (10') apart.
Fencing shall not be removed or relocated unless authorized in writing by the
City of Carthage.
      5.   No tree shall be impacted within the protective fencing area,
including the tree canopy.
      6.   All measures shall be taken to maintain the health of trees which
are transported to the replacement site and shall meet or exceed the
requirements of the most current American National Standards Institute. (Ord.
2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-7: LEGACY TREE PRESERVATION:
   (A)   A legacy tree is a tree provided special designation by the City of
Carthage. The criteria for designation is at the discretion of the Carthage
Tree Board.
   (B)   Removal of a legacy tree requires a tree removal permit and may
require a special hearing with the Carthage Tree Board.
   (C)   Construction, development and/or any grading adjacent to a legacy tree
requires a Tree Preservation Plan. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-8: TREE REMOVAL:
Tree removals are considered an impact to the entire City of Carthage, whether
on public or private land. It is clearly documented that larger trees provide
larger benefits and as such, tree removal fees are based on species and
diameter. It is recognized that the planting of smaller trees to replace the
value of larger trees that are lost will take tens of years and for this reason
efforts should be made to preserve and protect trees where they are growing.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to remove or cause damage to
any tree located on public property without first receiving a tree permit from
the City of Carthage.
   (B)   No live, dead or dying tree, or grouping of trees, equal to six inches
(6") or greater on public property may be removed without first obtaining a
permit from the City of Carthage.
   (C)   A nuisance tree is a tree that has already died, is in a state of
irrevocable decline, has the capacity to damage a person or thing or is an
invasive species. In the event of an emergency, and access to a Carthage City
Administrator is not possible, a nuisance tree may be removed without a permit,
however, the individual removing the tree shall take photographs and
memorialize the nuisance situation prior to removal and shall follow up with a
request for a tree permit from the City of Carthage on the next business day.
   (D)   Any tree removed from a parcel or transplanted offsite must be
replaced according to the regulations outlined in this section.
   (E)   All stump removals shall require underground utility locations prior
to any action.
   (F)   If a tree is removed or damaged which is not on the tree permit it
must be replaced or bonded as set forth in this article.
   (G)   Removal of invasive woody plants such as buckthorn do not require a
permit and in fact, are encouraged. These invasive plants can quickly colonize
an area reducing the health and vitality of non-invasive plants. A list of
invasive woody plants is provided in subsection
8-3A-12(C)2, table 2 of this article. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-9: TREE REPLACEMENT:
   (A)   It is required that tree replacement species come from the preferred
species list. (See subsection
8-3A-12(C)1, table 1 of this article.)
   (B)   Any tree which is required to be removed or which has been damaged
shall require a bond to be posted until adequate replacements or remediation
can be made. The bond amount is established by the City. Determination of
extent of damage is at the sole discretion of the City of Carthage.
   (C)   Any tree species removed, six inches (6") dbh or six inch (6") group
of trees, which is not identified on the invasive species list, but is
identified on the preferred species list, is required for replacement by this
section. These trees shall be replaced based on the calculation provided on the
preferred species list with a species identified on that list. All replacements
shall be located appropriately as confirmed by a certified arborist and as
approved by the Carthage Tree Board.
   (D)   When a tree removal is required as a result of any project, tree
replacement shall occur within the landscape season. In the event of weather
conditions or species specific needs, which prohibit proper replacement of a
tree, the City of Carthage may issue written notice of an extension of up to
one hundred eighty (180) days upon written request by the applicant. If an
extension is awarded to the applicant, the applicant shall notify the City of
Carthage when replacement is complete. If, after the thirty (30) day or awarded
180-day extension, the tree is not replaced or the applicant has not notified
the City of Carthage that installation is complete, all bonds shall be
forfeited and the bond money shall be placed in the tree account.
   (E)   All tree replacement plantings shall require an underground utility
location prior to planting.
   (F)   If the property where a removal has taken place does not have adequate
space to plant a replacement tree, then the applicant shall be required to pay
the City of Carthage a dollar amount as identified in section
8-3A-26 of this article. Funds shall be placed in the tree account for tree
replacement or tree care in another area of the City of Carthage.
   (G)   It shall be encouraged that any species identified on the invasive
species list be removed. There is no replacement requirement for these
removals. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-10: SPECIAL RULES FOR CONSERVANCY OR PRESERVATION AREAS:
There are currently no conservancy or preservation areas in Carthage. In the
future, if a conservancy or preservation area is impacted in any way, the
following restitution shall be required:
   (A)   A cash bond (in addition to the tree permit bond) is required for
every one thousand (1,000) square feet of conservancy or preservation area.
   (B)   The purpose of this deposit is to pay for restoration of the
conservancy or preservation area damaged directly or indirectly as a result of
the impact.
   (C)   Any maintenance made necessary as a result of impact, including but
not limited to the removal of dead trees or preventative measures such as root
pruning or crown reduction of existing trees.
   (D)   Any expenses incurred by the City of Carthage, as a result of the
impact in administering or enforcing the provisions of this Code.
   (E)   The cash bond will be refunded one year after the repairs have been
made and all maintenance is completed and approved. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-11: TREE PRESERVATION AND/OR REMOVAL PLAN FOR SIGNIFICANT REMOVALS,
CONSTRUCTION AND/OR DEVELOPMENT:
An applicant seeking a permit for significant tree removals or tree removal
and/or planting related to construction and/or development shall comply with
all requirements of this article. (See the Arboricultural Specifications Manual
for more information.) (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-12: ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARD OF PRACTICE MANUAL:
   (A)   Authority: Pursuant to authority granted under section
8-3-2-2 of this chapter, adopted by the City Council and approved by the Mayor
on 13th day of January, 2015, the following is created as the Arboricultural
Specifications and Standard of Practice Manual for the City of Carthage,
Illinois.
   (B)   Policy:
      1.   All work on public trees shall comply with this chapter and this
section.
      2.   This section shall be adhered to at all times, but it may be amended
at any time that experience, new research, or laws indicate that improved
methods of circumstances make it advisable, and only then with the advice and
assistance of the Carthage Tree Board, all as provided for in this chapter.
      3.   The policy of the Carthage Tree Board shall be to cooperate at all
times with the public, property owners, other Municipal departments, and with
appropriate not-for-profit organizations.
   (C)   Species, Cultivars, Or Varieties:
      1.   Table 1 of this subsection contains a list of tree species or their
varieties acceptable and approved for planting on City property.
TABLE 1
CITY OF CARTHAGE RECOMMENDED TREES
Family Scientific Name Common Name Native To IL
Family           Scientific Name         Common Name            Native To IL
                 Acer freemanii          Freeman's maple        Y
Aceraceae        Acer rubrum             Red maple              Y
                 Acer saccharum          Sugar maple            Y
Adoxaceae        Viburnum prunifolium    Blackhaw               Y
                 Viburnum rufidulum      Rusty blackhaw         Y
Altingiaceae     Liquidambar styraciflua Sweetgum               Y
Anacardiaceae    Cotinus obovatus        Smoketree              N
Annonaceae       Asimina triloba         Pawpaw                 Y
                 Betula nigra            Riverbirch             Y
Betulaceae       Carpinus caroliniana    Musclewood             Y
                 Ostrya virginiana       Ironwood               Y
Cannabaceae      Celtis laevigata        Sugarberry             Y
                 Celtis occidentalis     Hackberry              Y
Cornaceae        Cornus florida          Flowering dogwood      Y
                 Nyssa sylvatica         Blackgum               Y
                 Metasequoia             Dawn redwood           N
Cupressaceae     glyptostroboides
                 Taxodium distichum      Bald cypress           Y
Ebenaceae        Diospyros virginiana    Persimmon              Y
                 Cercis canadensis       Redbud                 Y
                 Cladrastis kentukea     Kentucky yellowwood    N
Fabaceae         Gleditsia triacanthos   Thornless honey locust Y
                 inernis
                 Gymnocladus dioicus     Coffeetree             Y
                 Quercus alba            White oak              Y
                 Quercus bicolor         Swamp white oak        Y
                 Quercus coccinea        Scarlet oak            Y
                 Quercus macrocarpa      Bur oak                Y
Fagaceae         Quercus montana         Chestnut oak           Y
                 Quercus muehlenbergii   Chinkapin oak          Y
                 Quercus rubra           Northern red oak       Y
                 Quercus shumardii       Shumard oak            Y
                 Quercus velutina        Black oak              Y
Ginkgoaceae      Ginkgo biloba           Ginkgo                 N
Hippocastanaceae Aesculus glabra         Ohio buckeye           Y
                 Aesculus pavia          Red buckeye            Y
Juglandaceae     Carya illinoinensis     Pecan                  Y
Lauraceae        Sassafras albidum       Sassafras              Y
Magnoliaceae     Liriodendron tulipifera Tuliptree              Y
                 Magnolia acuminata      Cucumbertree           Y
Platanaceae      Platanus acerifolia     London planetree       N
                 Platanus occidentalis   Sycamore               Y
                 Amelanchier arborea     Downy serviceberry     Y
Rosaceae         Amelanchier laevis      Alleghany serviceberry Y
                 Physocarpus opulifoilus Ninebark               Y
 
      2.   Unacceptable tree species or their varieties contained in table 2 of
this subsection shall not be planted on City-owned property, except in special
locations where because of characteristic of adaptability or landscape effect
they can be used to public advantage.
TABLE 2
CITY OF CARTHAGE PROHIBITED TREES
Scientific Name Common Name Reason
Scientific Name         Common Name        Reason
Acer platanoides        Norway maple       Invasive
Ailanthus altissima     Tree-of-heaven     Invasive
Albizia julibrissin     Silk tree          Invasive
Chinonanthus virginicus Fringe tree        Emerald ash borer potential
Elaeagnus angustifolia  Russian olive      Invasive
Elaeagnus umbellata     Autumn olive       Invasive
Fraxinus spp.           Ash species        Emerald ash borer
Juglans cinera          Butternut          Butternut canker
Ligustrum spp.          Privet species     Invasive
Morus alba              White mulberry     Invasive
Paulownia tomentosa     Princesstree       Invasive
Pyrus calleryana        Callery pear       Susceptible to ice/wind damage;
                                           invasive
Rhamnus cathartica      European buckthorn Invasive
Robinia pseudo-acacia   Black locust       Invasive; thorns
Tamarix ramosissima     Saltcedar          Invasive
Ulmus pumila            Siberian elm       Invasive
 
      3.   Other tree species or their varieties not listed in subsection (C)1,
table 1 of this section may be planted on City-owned property, but only
desirable trees of good appearance, beauty, and adaptability that are generally
free from injurious insects, diseases, or other limitations may be planted.
      4.   Where certain planting sites have been assigned a particular species
or variety, only designated species or variety shall be planted on such sites,
unless the plan is revised by the Carthage Tree Board.
      5.   The Carthage Tree Board, shall review, at least once every two (2)
years, the species, cultivars, and varieties listed on subsection (C)1, table 1
of this section to determine whether any should be removed or whether certain
new species, cultivars, or varieties of proven adaptability and value should be
added; and the Carthage Tree Board shall similarly review the trees listed in
subsection (C)2, table 2 of this section to determine whether any should be
removed or whether certain new species, cultivars, or varieties should be added
thereto.
   (D)   Planting Stock Requirements:
      1.   Size: All medium to large trees shall be at least one and one- half
inches (11/2") in diameter ball and burlapped with balls of firm earth or in-
ground 12" - 18" mesh bags or above ground white root trapper bags. Size may
directly be dictated by availability of trees from local nurseries - but all
trees will be expected to be of high quality.
      2.   Grade: Unless otherwise specified by the Carthage Tree Board, all
trees shall conform to the American Association of Nurseryman Standards. All
trees shall have comparatively straight trunks, well developed leaders and
tops, and roots shall be characteristic of the species or cultivars, and
exhibit evidence of proper nursery pruning practices. They shall have
acceptable balance between top and root. At the time of planting, all trees
must be free of mechanical injuries, and other objectionable features that tend
to affect the future form and beauty of the plant.
      3.   Modifications: Planting stock requirements in regards to type and
size may be modified to address unusual planting situations if it is determined
to be in the best interest of the City. These situations will be examined on a
case by case basis and require prior approval of the Carthage Tree Board.
   (E)   Planting Site Requirements:
      1.   Location And Spacing: Based on height at maturity, no tree
classified as large in subsection (C)1, table 1 of this section shall be
planted in areas that are less than eight feet (8') in width, or where overhead
lines or building setback present a special problem. Small trees planted in
areas less than eight feet (8') in width should be centered. Areas with less
than five feet (5') in width, steps should be taken to plant inside the
sidewalk on private property, at least five feet (5') from the sidewalk
depending on the size of the tree at maturity.
      2.   Placement: Trees shall be planted at least ten feet (10') from
driveways and alleys. At intersections trees shall be spaced far enough back as
not to interfere with visibility of cross traffic (30 feet along a boundary
measured from the point of intersecting curb lines). No tree shall be planted
within fifteen feet (15') of a utility pole or fire hydrant in order to allow
access for line maintenance or use.
      3.   Spacing: The spacing of trees shall depend on the species or
cultivar used, height at maturity, spread, form, and site characteristics. All
large trees shall be spaced forty feet (40') to sixty feet (60'), center to
center; all medium trees thirty feet (30') to fifty feet (50'), center to
center; and all small trees shall be spaced twenty five feet (25'), center to
center. Trees planted in areas surrounded by concrete, brick, or asphalt shall
have a minimum open surface of at least sixteen (16) square feet.
      4.   Unpaved Streets: All planting of trees along unpaved streets without
sidewalks or curbs must have the approval of the Carthage Tree Board. The
Carthage Tree Board shall determine the location of the tree so that it will
not be injured or destroyed when the street is curbed and paved and the
sidewalk is constructed.
      5.   Parks Or Other Sites: Spacing requirements for trees planted along
City streets do not apply to trees planted in parks or other sites where
clustering of trees may be desirable for aesthetics, screening, windbreaks, or
wildlife habitat purposes.
      6.   JULIE: No street tree planting is to be made over JULIE locates.
   (F)   Methods Of Planting And Support:
      1.   Most small, deciduous trees and shrubs may be moved bare- rooted
unless otherwise indicated. Roots of bare-rooted trees and shrubs must be
protected against drying out.
      2.   All coniferous trees shall be moved balled and burlapped. Balled
roots should be prevented from drying out at the surface of the ball and they
should be protected against freezing.
      3.   Preferably all bare root trees shall be planted when the plant is
dormant, usually in the spring time.
      4.   Pits for the planting of bare-root plants shall be at least twelve
inches (12") wider in diameter than the diameter of the root system in order to
accommodate the roots without crowding. For balled trees, the pits should be a
minimum of twelve inches (12") wider than the diameter of the ball of soil to
allow for proper backfill (as well as mesh root bags and above ground white
root trapper bags).
      5.   Plants shall be planted no deeper than previously grown, or shall be
adjusted to proper planting depth if grown too deep in the nursery. If prior to
purchasing it was determined that the tree was grown too deeply, another tree
of the desired species or cultivar shall be chosen if possible. Trunk flare
should be visible just above the soil surface.
      6.   In poorly drained soil, trees suitable to such conditions should be
selected first. If this is not an option, then artificial drainage and slightly
higher planting depth shall be utilized at time of planting.
      7.   When planting is completed the entire root area shall be thoroughly
saturated with water and burlap or bag materials removed as necessary so as to
not restrict growth. Regular watering for the first three (3) years is
recommended.
      8.   Pruning at planting should be limited to removing injured, dead,
disease, or insect infested branches and roots and if at all possible prior to
purchase from the nursery. Trees with evidence of severe insect or disease
issues should not be purchased.
      9.   Tree trunks shall be staked or guyed as necessary according to
accepted arboricultural practices. These should be installed only for the first
year and removed at the beginning of the following growing season unless it is
believed that there is reason to keep the tree staked as determined by the
Carthage Tree Board. All guying and staking methods shall be installed so that
they will neither girdle nor cause serious injury to the tree nor endanger
public safety.
   (G)   Early Maintenance:
      1.   General: Newly planted trees, shrubs, and other plants require
special maintenance for one to three (3) growing seasons following planting.
All maintenance practices shall follow approved arboricultural standards.
      2.   Watering: Ample soil moisture shall be maintained following
planting. A thorough watering once in five (5) to ten (10) days, depending on
soil type and drainage provisions, is usually adequate during the growing
season, A soil auger can be used to check the adequacy of moisture in the soil
ball and/or backfill. The use of gator bags is also beneficial for newly
planted trees so as to help maximize water being directed to the soil ball/
backfill area.
      3.   Fertilization: Adequate quantities of the essential nutrient
elements should be available after new root growth starts. However, provision
of good drainage and adequate moisture of the backfill, or the soil ball on
balled plants, is more important than fertilization immediately following
planting. Fertilization should only be done if the tree is showing signs of
nutrient deficiencies and only after a soil test is conducted.
      4.   Insect And Disease Control: Frequent and thorough inspections shall
be made to determine when measures for the control of insects and diseases
shall be taken. Plants are in a weakened condition following transplanting and
they are more susceptible to insects, especially borers, and disease than are
vigorously growing trees. Where it is necessary to spray, pesticides shall be
used that are labeled for the purpose intended.
      5.   Pruning: Pruning newly planted trees shall consist of removing dead,
broken, or injured branches, and the suppression of rank, uneven growth that
affects form. Water sprouts shall be removed when they reach the diameter of a
pencil. Pruning shall be practiced as often thereafter as needed to assure
sturdy crotch development and good structure. Tree crowns should be elevated as
growth characteristics and locations dictate. Newly planted trees need not have
lower branches removed until they are well established.
   (H)   General Maintenance:
      1.   Pruning And Removal:
         (a)   No topping of trees shall be permitted, except by written
permission by the City Arborist. Proper cabling and bracing shall be
substituted for this practice wherever possible.
         (b)   It shall be the policy of the City Arborist to cooperate with
the Municipal or utility lighting engineer, and vice versa, in the placement
and selection of lighting standards.
         (c)   All cuts shall be made with a saw or pruner and only at the
nodes or crotches. No stubs shall be left. No spurs or climbing irons shall be
used in the trees, except when trees are to be removed.
         (d)   All dead branches shall be removed; branches that cross or rub
should be pruned to eliminate the problem.
         (e)   In the event of infectious diseases, all pruning tools must be
disinfected before being used on a new tree.
         (f)   Whenever streets are to be blocked off to public service, all
Police and Fire Departments shall be notified of the location and length of
time the street will be blocked. Notifications shall be given to these
departments upon the removal of such barriers or if such barriers are to remain
longer than originally expected.
         (g)   To protect the public from danger, suitable street and sidewalk
barriers, highway cones, or signs shall be used when pruning a tree. Signals or
flasher lights shall be placed on all barriers or obstructions remaining in the
street after dark.
         (h)   The stumps of all removed trees shall be cut to at least six
inches (6") below the ground level, the soil cavity shall be filled with soil
and the area leveled. This shall be the responsibility of the City of Carthage.
      2.   Spraying:
         (a)   Suitable precautions shall be taken to protect and warn the
public that spraying is being done.
         (b)   Spraying shall be done only for the control of specific
diseases, regrowth, or insects, with the proper materials in the necessary
strength, and applied at the proper time, to obtain the desired control. All
spraying practices shall conform to Federal and State regulations.
         (c)   Dormant oil sprays shall not be applied to sugar maple, Japanese
maple, beech, flowering dogwood, hickory, walnut, and most crabapple trees.
Dormant oil sprays shall be applied only when the air temperature is at least
forty degrees (40°) for a period of twenty four (24) hours after spraying.
      3.   Fertilization:
         (a)   Fertilization of public trees shall follow the recommendations
of the Illinois Arboricultural Association or other accepted arboricultural
standard.
         (b)   Methods of application of fertilizers shall be specified by the
Carthage Tree Board.
      4.   Cavities: Extensive cavity work should be performed on trees only if
they are of sufficiently high value to justify the cost. All cavity work shall
conform to the National Arborist Association or other acceptable arboricultural
standards.
      5.   Cabling And Bracing:
         (a)   As a general rule, cables should be located above the crotch at
a point approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the distance between the crotch and
tops of the branch ends. Rust-resistant cables, thimbles, and lags should be
used. The ends of a cable should be attached to hooks or eyes of lags or bolts
inserted near the ends of the branches. Thimbles must be used in the eye splice
in each end of the cable. In no instance shall cable be wrapped around a
branch.
         (b)   All cabling and bracing practices with screw rods shall follow
National Arborist Association or other accepted arboricultural standards.
   (I)   Proper Utility Tree Care Practices:
      1.   Pruning:
         (a)   All utility pruning is to be undertaken in accordance with the
most recent edition of "Pruning Standard for Shade Trees" as published by the
National Arborist Association. The utility and its contractor shall have sole
responsibility for pruning around electrical conductors as required ANSIZ-133
safety standard. It shall be the responsibility of the utility and the line
trimming contractor to properly train the line clearance workers in the
trimming methods required by this subsection before they begin to conduct
actual pruning operations.
         (b)   Tree spikes (hooks, irons, gaffs) shall not be used during
pruning operations. Pruning practices of heading back, rounding- over, tip
pruning, or pollarding are prohibited,
         (c)   Trees will be pruned by natural trimming methods in relation to
the individual species rate of growth, strength of wood, natural habit, and
line voltage. The pamphlet "Pruning Trees Near Electric Utility Lines" by Dr.
Alex L. Shigo, and published by Shigo and Trees, Associates, is hereby
incorporated by reference, and shall be considered the authority for this
section.
         (d)   Trees with trunks located under utility lines and capable of
growing to a height which will be well in excess of the conductors shall be
"thru" or "V" trimmed. Sound scaffolding (with wide branch angles and sound
wood) must be developed, particularly if the tree has been previously topped,
rounded- over, or pollared. Once proper scaffolding has been developed,
subsequent cuts will remove only new growth and not involve major reshaping.
         (e)   Trees with trunks adjacent to, but not positioned under wires
shall be side-trimmed to produce good scaffolding and sound wood and direct
future growth away from energized lines. The highest possible bud count shall
be maintained above and away from the wires so that a minimum amount of
regrowth will develop away from the wires. Branches growing on the side of the
tree away from wires shall not be pruned unless there is an obvious and
immediate hazard.
         (f)   Slow-growing tree species not capable of growing to a height
greater than the conductors shall be pruned by drop-crotch trimming. Those
branches likely to interfere with conductors within three (3) to five (5) years
will be cut back to a side branch one-third (1/3) or more the diameter of the
branch to be removed. The final cut will be made just above and parallel, but
not through, the branch bark ridge. The side branch must have a good chance of
survival and be left with the highest possible bud count to reduce suckering
and ensure survival. The natural shape of the tree is to be retained as much as
possible.
         (g)   The line clearance contractor shall be responsible for the
removal of all dead branches over two inches (2") in diameter on all street
trees that are normally trimmed in the immediate work area.
         (h)   Generally, no more than one-third (1/3) of a tree's canopy will
be removed at any one time. Excessive clearances will not be performed. There
shall be no flush cuts. All cuts will be made at the branch collar or just
above the bark ridge.
         (i)   The utility line trimming contractor shall be financially liable
to the City for damage caused to City-owned trees resulting from failure to
follow these standards. Damages shall be appraised at fair market value as
determined by the "Valuation of Landscape Trees, Shrubs and Other Plants" guide
published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
         (j)   All City residents shall receive the same level of quality of
tree pruning services.
   (J)   Tree Protection:
      1.   Construction Zone: It is the responsibility of the permit holder, as
a condition of permit, to protect all public trees located on the adjacent
public right-of-way that may reasonably be expected to be affected or damaged
by construction activities. Existing trees subject to construction damage shall
be boxed, fenced, or otherwise protected before any work is started. The trees
to be protected, the method of protection, and the dimensions involved shall be
determined by the Carthage Tree Board conjunctly with the permit holder or his/
her agent. Once assembled, no boxing, fencing, or other protection device shall
be removed without prior approval of the Carthage Tree Board, and there will be
no construction activity or material within the enclosure.
      2.   Dimensions: Small trees, as determined by the Carthage Tree Board,
shall be boxed or fenced in such a manner as to encompass the entire drip line
area of the tree. In no case shall the enclosure be less than two feet (2')
from the centerline of the tree. Medium to large trees shall be boxed or fenced
in a manner determined by the City Arborist based on sound arboricultural
practices. In no case shall the protective device be closer than ten feet (10')
from the centerline of the tree except in those portions bordered by the public
sidewalk or curb, in which case the protective device shall be offset one foot
(1') wherever possible.
      3.   Utility Installations (Underground): All installations of
underground utilities upon the public right-of-way are subject to approval by
the City. Any and all installations that impact public trees due to underground
conflicts (roots) is specifically subject to the review and approval of the
Carthage Tree Board before the project starts.
      4.   Trenching, Tunneling, And Boring Medium To Large Trees: When the
drip line of trees becomes extensive or overlapping, the only reasonable means
of utility installation on the public right-of- way is a combination of
trenching, tunneling, or boring. All trenches should not stay open longer than
necessary and must be properly barricaded.
   (K)   Amendments:
      1.   The Carthage Tree Board shall have the authority to make
recommendations to modify, amend, or extend this section at any time that
experience indicates improved methods or whenever circumstances make it
advisable. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-13: NUISANCE TREES:
A tree which is determined to be a nuisance tree is one which is dead or
declining and has the potential to damage other trees, people or structures.
These trees may be located on public or private property.
   (A)   Duty Of The Property Owner: It shall be the duty of the property owner
on any parcel to promptly remove any trees which pose a risk.
   (B)   Timing: Should the City of Carthage notify the property owner, in
writing, of a tree which is a potential risk, the property owner shall have
thirty (30) days to remove the tree. If after thirty (30) days the property
owner has not removed the tree then the City of Carthage shall take action to
have the tree removed and shall provide to the property owner a written invoice
outlining all costs associated with the removal, including but not limited to
staff time, materials and oversight of said removal. Should the property owner
not reimburse the City of Carthage within thirty (30) days of issuance of a
written invoice, the City of Carthage shall place a lien on the property until
all expenses related to the removal and subsequent lien are paid.
   (C)   Infected, Infested Trees Due To A Pest Or Pathogen Are Defined As A
Nuisance:
      1.   Heavy Infestation Or Disease: Any tree which is in a state of
irreparable or untreatable decline due to heavy infestation or disease is
included in the definition of a nuisance. Infested or infected trees, which are
identified by Federal or State Departments of Agriculture to be in quarantine
or can potentially infect or infest other trees are defined as a nuisance. This
would include but not be limited to Ash (Fraxinus) trees infested with emerald
ash borer which are not being treated or whose treatment is ineffectual, or Elm
trees (Ulmus) infected with Dutch elm disease.
         (a)   The City of Carthage shall enforce State and Federal regulations
governing quarantine zone boundaries, and regulated articles.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, "regulated articles" are
hereby defined as any insects at any living state of development, any
quarantines materials such as wood products including, but not limited to
chips, limbs, lumber, firewood or any other product or means of conveyance
which may be determined by Federal or State Departments of Agriculture to pose
a risk of spread of any infestation or infection.
         (c)   It shall be illegal to move out of established quarantine zone
(s) regulated articles unless those articles have met all requirements of the
local, Federal and State regulatory agencies.
         (d)   It shall be illegal for any person or entity to transfer from a
quarantine zone into a non-quarantine zone including the City of Carthage any
regulated articles.
         (e)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of any local,
State or Federal regulations related to tree infestations or infections shall
be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
         (f)   All contractors working within and near any quarantine zone(s)
are required to comply with the quarantine regulations and supply records that
may be required for inspection to City, County, State or Federal agencies upon
request.
      2.   Trees In Decline Or Dead Are Defined As A Nuisance:
         (a)   Any tree or part of a tree which is dead which could potentially
fall on a person or structure is defined as a nuisance.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot or land in
Carthage to permit or maintain on any such lot or land, any tree which is dead,
or declining to the state where it may create a potential risk for structures
or people. It shall be the duty of any such owner to promptly cause the removal
of any such tree. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-14: INVASIVE SPECIES CONTROL:
   (A)   Invasive Woody Plants: Invasive plants cause ecological disruption to
natural ecosystems. The type of impact varies based on the species and the
traits of that species. The prohibited trees list, subsection
8-3A-12(C)2 of this article identifies invasive species which shall not be
planted and which should be removed and controlled to reduce impacts to other
vegetation.
      1.   Impacts: Typical impacts include:
         (a)   Chemical disturbance to the soil limiting development of other
species;
         (b)   Dense plant growth limiting light to soil surface resulting in
exposed soil allowing erosion;
         (c)   Displacement of naturally occurring species resulting in a
monoculture of invasive species and aggressive tendencies.
      2.   Private Property Owner Outreach: The City of Carthage shall develop
and implement an outreach plan to educate property owners of the potential
impacts and remediation strategies, including a suggested planting list of
alternative species to assist property owners in dealing with the problem.
   (B)   Invasive Diseases And Insects:
      1.   Impacts To Trees: Invasive diseases and insects can create
significant stress to trees and in some instances kill trees. The City of
Carthage has developed a list of invasive diseases and insects that pose
significant threats to trees from information identified by State and Federal
Departments of Agriculture. For more information go to https://www.invasive.org
or the Illinois Exotic Weed Act.
      2.   Invasive Species Management Plan: The City of Carthage shall develop
an action strategy to deal with any of these diseases or insects and take
action to remove the pest, forestall impacts to the trees through treatments or
other means or develop a removal and replacement strategy for remediation of
the problem.
      3.   Private Property Owner Outreach: The City of Carthage shall develop
and implement an outreach plan to educate property owners of the potential
impacts and remediation strategies to help property tree owners in dealing with
pests or pathogens. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-15: TREE BOARD:
The Carthage Tree Board was established on January 13th, 2014. For details,
refer to section
8-3-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-16: TREE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Applicant Submission: An applicant for a simple tree removal or
planting on public property shall fill out a Tree Removal or Tree Planting
Request in person and the City of Carthage Arborist shall make an inspection
and render a determination.
If a removal or planting is significant or in conjunction with any type of
development, then a full tree preservation plan and inventory for the area to
be impacted may be required. (See Arboricultural Specifications Manual for more
information.) The City of Carthage shall review the application. This review
shall include an inspection of the site and referral of the application for
recommendation to other appropriate administrative departments or agencies. The
City of Carthage shall render a decision on the application within ten (10)
working days of its receipt of a properly completed application. (Ord. 2018-11,
9-25-2018)
8-3A-17: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   (A)   Issuance: The City of Carthage shall issue a permit upon approval of
an application and payment of a required fee and bond.
   (B)   Time Limitation:
      1.   A permit shall expire and become null and void if work authorized is
not commenced within one year from the date of the permit or if such work when
commenced is suspended or abandoned at any time for a period of one year.
      2.   If work has commenced and the permit becomes null and void or
expires because of a lack of progress or abandonment, a new permit for the
proposed tree removal, planting activity shall be obtained before proceeding
with further work. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-18: CASH BONDS:
   (A)   If tree replacement is required by this article, then as a condition
of the tree permit, the applicant shall submit a cash bond as established by
the City. The bond shall be held for the purpose of assuring that the
replacement tree(s) are purchased and planted.
   (B)   If it is determined that practices which violate any portion of this
Code have resulted in tree damage, then the City of Carthage may require that a
cash bond, as established by the City, shall be submitted at the time the
violation occurs. The bond shall be held for the purpose of assuring that all
remedial actions to minimize tree damage are taken, and/or for the purpose of
assuring tree replacement should any damaged tree die or show noticeable signs
of decline as determined by a certified arborist. If it is determined that
residual damage may not be apparent, then the bond may be held for a period of
sixty (60) months. At the end of which time, if the tree survives and is in
good health, as determined by a certified arborist the bond shall be returned.
If the tree does not survive, and was not further impacted by an act of God, or
is in poor health then replacement shall be required as identified above and
according to section
8-3A-26 of this article.
   (C)   If the bond is posted for a tree and the property owner wishes to
transfer the property, then the bond shall be required to be paid before
transfer of the property or shall be refunded to the original property owner
once the bond requirements have been met. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-19: FINAL INSPECTION:
Final approval shall be issued when all relocation, replacement or remediation
of trees is completed and a final inspection has been conducted by the City of
Carthage. Should the City of Carthage determine that the season is
inappropriate for planting then relocation or replacement shall be deferred
until the next planting season. All bonds and fees will remain in the custody
of the City of Carthage until final inspection and approval has been provided
in writing. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-20: COMPLIANCE:
The City of Carthage shall retain jurisdiction to ensure compliance with this
article and shall have the right to issue a stop work order for non-compliance.
No stop work order issued pursuant to this section shall be removed by the City
of Carthage unless the applicant has paid a reinspection fee. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-
25-2018)
8-3A-21: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this article shall be
assessed at a cost as prescribed in section
8-3A-26 of this article. Each tree cut down, destroyed, damaged, removed or
moved shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to these penalties, if a
tree is removed in violation of this article, all replacement requirements of
this article shall be applied. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-22: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Enforcement Right Of Entry Of City Of Carthage Officers: To carry out
the purposes of this article and to implement its enforcement, the City of
Carthage is authorized and empowered, upon twenty four (24) hours' notice, to
enter upon any lot or parcel of land in the City of Carthage at all reasonable
hours to inspect any tree or wood and to remove specimens from any such tree to
determine their condition. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
with a City of Carthage officer carrying out the duties authorized in this
section.
   (B)   Duty Of Property Owner To Abate Nuisance Or Potential Risk: If it is
determined that there exists a public nuisance or risk as declared in this
article, the City of Carthage shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner
of the lot or parcel of land on which such nuisance or risk is located, a
written notice identifying the nuisance or risk and requiring the owner to
comply with the provisions of this article. If the person upon whom such notice
is served fails, neglects or refuses to remove and dispose of the tree or dead
wood within thirty (30) days after service of such notice, the City of Carthage
may proceed to remove and dispose of such tree or dead wood and the costs shall
be paid by the owner to the City of Carthage.
   (C)   Service Of Notice To Property Owner: Service of notice provided for in
this section shall be affected by personal service or by certified mail
addressed to the occupant or to the person to whom, and at the address, to
which the tax bill was sent for the General Taxes for the last preceding year
on the lot or parcel on which the nuisance is located.
   (D)   City Of Carthage Abatement And Assessment Of Costs: Any costs incurred
by the City of Carthage in the abatement of a public nuisance or hazard as
declared in this article shall be assessed against the record owner of the land
involved and the City of Carthage shall place a lien upon such property for
those costs in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-23: EXCEPTIONS:
If because of emergency weather or other casualty conditions a tree is
endangering health, safety or property and requires immediate removal, verbal
authorization may be given by the City of Carthage for the tree removal without
obtaining a written permit. Such verbal authorization shall later be confirmed
in writing by the City of Carthage. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-24: APPEALS FOR VARIANCE:
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the City of Carthage in the
enforcement of any terms or provisions of this article may, within ten (10)
working days after the date of the decision, appeal to the Carthage Tree Board
by filing a written notice of appeal with the Carthage City Clerk. The notice
of appeal shall set forth concisely the decision and the reasons or grounds for
the appeal. The Tree Board may make a recommendation to the Carthage City
Council to affirm, modify, or reverse the decision. The decision of the City
Council shall be final and no petition for rehearing or reconsideration shall
be available. Reasonable notice of the hearing by the Tree Board shall be
provided by the Carthage City Clerk to all affected parties.
   (B)   No variances in the strict application of the provisions of this
article shall be recommended for approval by the board unless it finds:
      1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions, fully described
in the written notice of appeal which are peculiar to the property (properties)
and do not apply generally to properties within the City of Carthage, and that
said circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of this
Code would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the subject property
(properties).
      2.   That for reasons fully set forth in the written notice of appeal,
the granting of the variance is necessary for the reasonable use of the
property (properties) and that the variance, as recommended for approval by the
board, is the minimum variance that will accomplish this purpose.
      3.   That the result of granting of the variance will be in harmony with
the general purpose and intent of standards set forth within this Code and in
harmony with this article, and will not be injurious to adjacent property or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-25: CIVIL REMEDIES:
In addition to any other remedies provided by this article the City of Carthage
shall have the following judicial remedies available for violations of this
article or any permit condition promulgated under this article.
   (A)   The City of Carthage may institute a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to establish liability and to recover damages for any
injury caused by the removal or damage of trees in contravention of the terms
of this article.
   (B)   The City of Carthage may institute a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to seek injunctive relief to enforce compliance with
this article to enjoin any violation, and to seek injunctive relief to prevent
irreparable injury to the trees or properties encompassed by the terms of this
article. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-25-2018)
8-3A-26: FEES:
All fees for tree removal, replacement, or damage shall be reasonable and shall
not exceed the actual cost of replanting a tree of similar value. (Ord. 2018-
11, 9-25-2018)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC SQUARE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Reserved
8-4-2: Disturbing Grounds
8-4-3: Disorderly Conduct
8-4-4: Committing Nuisance
8-4-5: Penalty
8-4-1: RESERVED:
(2018 Code)
8-4-2: DISTURBING GROUNDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, upon the making and completion of the
walks within the square to use as a walk or thoroughfare in, over or across the
square, any other walk or thoroughfare, except the way provided therein by the
usual sidewalk of boards, gravel or other substance, or for any person to
disturb any sward, gravel, sand, turf or earth in the square or to turn any
cow, horse, mule, hog, sheep, goat or other domestic animal into the square, or
fasten or hitch any animal to any tree, fence or structure in or upon the
square, or drive any animal or vehicle, except when receiving or delivering
goods for use in the various county offices, or in the hauling of material for
use, within the square, or without the written permission of the Mayor of the
City, and the Sheriff of the County, deliver any oration, address, speech,
sermon or lecture within the open square, or walk or go upon or trample down
any grass or herbage growing, being or standing in the square.
Provided, it shall not constitute any offense to walk or go upon the grass on
such days known as a "public occasion" when permission to use the grounds has
been given by the authorities, and any and all persons so offending shall be
deemed guilty of a nuisance. (Ord. 33, 12-5-1908)
8-4-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
All games, all disorderly or indecent conduct and all acts or misdemeanors
calculated and tending to annoy, mar or disturb the feelings or enjoyment of
the visitors attending such public square are prohibited therein, and no person
of immoral or evil repute or character shall be permitted to enter, loiter in
or remain within the square, nor shall any peddler or petty dealer sell any
article in or adjoining the square, nor shall any person be permitted to lodge
in said square, and any and all persons so offending shall be deemed guilty of
a nuisance. (Ord. 33, 12-5-1908)
8-4-4: COMMITTING NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, or cast upon, or to leave or
place upon any of the benches, walks, sward grass or upon any of the grounds
of, or upon or within any other place within the Public or Court House Square,
any rind of any melon, or other fruit or any waste paper, whittlings, thing or
rubbish of any kind whatever, or within or about said square, commit what is
commonly called or known as a "nuisance" or otherwise, within or about said
square, be guilty of anything against good morals or decency. (Ord. 33, 12-5-
1908; amd. 1979 Code)
8-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense; a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues. (1979 Code; amd.
2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CARTHAGE LAKE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Rules And Regulations
8-5-2: Penalty
8-5-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted as applicable to and
enforceable at the property known as the Carthage Lake and the City's property
immediately adjacent thereto: (Ord. 389, 7-11-1930; amd. 1979 Code)
   (A)   There shall be no motors or motor boats or outboard motors, except
electric or gas motors of not more than ten (10) horsepower, used on the lake,
nor shall any permit be issued for trot line fishing. Trot line fishing is
hereby prohibited on the lake. (Ord. 80-30, 4-14-1981; amd. 2018 Code)
   (B)   No person shall swim, bathe or be in the water of the lake or
filtration plant maintained by the City on parts of Section 13 and 14, Township
5 North, Range 7 West, Hancock County, Illinois, as a part of its waterworks
system.
   (C)   No person shall loiter in, upon or around the lake, pool or filtration
plant or any grounds or building owned, possessed or maintained by the City
adjacent thereto.
   (D)   No person shall place, leave, have, use or maintain any boat, skiff,
raft or watercraft in or upon the lake or pool of the City except as
hereinabove provided. (Ord. 389, 7-11-1930; amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
8-5-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 389, 7-11-1930;
amd. 1979 Code; 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND WIRES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Permit Required
8-6-2: Application For Permit
8-6-3: Permit Fee
8-6-4: Bond And Liability Insurance
8-6-5: Deposit
8-6-6: Injuring City Property
8-6-7: Obstruction Of Streets
8-6-8: Private Driveways
8-6-9: Permit Form
8-6-10: Plans For Construction
8-6-11: As-Built Plans
8-6-12: Penalty
8-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall install any underground wires or cables of any kind in, through
or under any street, sidewalk, alley, right-of- way, City property or public
place in the City for any purpose whatsoever, without a permit therefor being
first obtained from the City Clerk upon the authorization of the Codes
Enforcement Officer, which permit shall not be issued until the applicant has
complied with the provisions of this chapter, in all respects, including a bond
and deposit as required herein. A separate permit shall be obtained for each
installation, cut or excavation made. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All applications for permit under the provisions of this chapter shall be in
the name of the ultimate carrier which is to be the final owner of the system
giving its name, address and phone number, and if an LLC, the names, addresses
and telephone numbers of the managing partner and the owners. The application
shall be signed by the ultimate owner as well as the contractor that is to do
the construction designated in the application. Such application shall not be
assignable and no person shall allow his name to be used to obtain a permit for
any other person. Applications shall be made on forms provided by the City for
this purpose. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-3: PERMIT FEE:
The sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged for each and every permit
issued under this chapter. Such fee shall be paid to the City Clerk. Public
utilities having franchises which permit the deduction from Franchise Taxes or
permit fees and charges shall be issued permits without charge. (Ord. 2018-7,
7-25-2018)
8-6-4: BOND AND LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Before any permit referred to in this chapter shall be issued, the applicant
for such permit shall have deposited with the City Clerk approved by the Codes
Enforcement Officer a performance and maintenance bond, or in the alternative a
license and permit bond in the penal sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00)
which bond shall provide that the permittee shall well and satisfactorily
restore the street or other opening and guaranteeing said satisfactory
restoration for a period of one year after same is made, including correction
or restoration of any damage to any private individuals property. If the
permittee anticipates requesting more than one permit per year as required by
this chapter, he may furnish one continuing bond as aforesaid in the penal sum
of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), unless a larger bond is required by the
Codes Enforcement Officer. (If said $2,000.00 bond is not deemed adequate by
the Codes Enforcement Officer, he may require an increase in the amount thereof
promised upon the estimated cost of restoring the street opening or openings.)
In addition to the above requirement, the permittee shall, before the permit is
issued, furnish the City Clerk with a certificate of insurance showing the
liability coverage of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
personal injury and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for property
damage. Such certificate of insurance shall indicate that the permittee has
purchased contractual liability insurance to comply with the following
indemnifying agreement, namely: to indemnify and hold the City, its agents,
employees and servants absolutely whole and harmless from, on account of and
against all claims, demands or suits which may be brought by any person or
persons arising out of any acts or work done pursuant to the award of such
permit to the permittee notwithstanding that such claim, demand or suit may be
the result of negligence of someone other than the permittee or his
subcontractor including attorney fees.
Self-insured corporations may deposit a hold-harmless agreement in a form
approved by the City Attorney. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-5: DEPOSIT:
Before any permit under this chapter shall be issued, the applicant for such
permit shall have deposited with the City Clerk the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00) lawful money of the United States and this money shall be maintained
and held, and shall constitute a special deposit, the object and general
purpose of such deposit being to protect the City on account of any expense it
may incur in repairing, refilling, paving or resurfacing any cut or excavation
that may be made in the streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places. All
construction and signage shall comply with the Standard Specification On Road
and Bridge Construction. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-6: INJURING CITY PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully destroy or injure any bridge,
culvert, sewer, crossing or sidewalks or any portion thereof, or to aid, assist
or abet the same, or to remove earth or substance from the sidewalk or from any
street, alley or highway and thereby leave the same below the proper grade, or
raise the same above the established grade without having first obtained
written permission of the Superintendent of Streets. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-7: OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS:
No street, highway, avenue, alley, way, culvert, sewer, drain or ground, or any
part thereof shall be closed or obstructed without written permission from the
Street Superintendent. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-8: PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS:
No private driveways that cross City property shall be cut or excavated without
written permission of the Street Superintendent and any damage shall be
repaired by the permittee to its original condition. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-9: PERMIT FORM:
A permit form shall be provided by the City Clerk. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-10: PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION:
Complete plans showing the location of all underground wires to be constructed
in relation to any streets, alleys or other public facilities, shall be
provided, to the satisfaction of the Codes Enforcement Officer prior to the
issuance of any permit. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-11: AS-BUILT PLANS:
Complete "as-built" plans shall be provided, approved by the Codes Enforcement
Officer and filed with the City Clerk within seven (7) days of completion of
any installation. (Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
8-6-12: PENALTY:
Any contractor, carrier or owner, failing to obtain any permit required by this
chapter shall be fined the sum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day
for each day of construction without such permit. Any contractor, carrier or
owner failing to comply with any of the other requirements of this chapter or
make appropriate filings as required herein shall be fined the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day any such violation continues.
(Ord. 2018-7, 7-25-2018)
CHAPTER 7
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-7-1: Application For Service
8-7-2: Initial And Minimum Charged Whether Water Used Or Not
8-7-3: Rate Schedule
8-7-4: Payment Of Bills
8-7-5: City Responsibility And Liability
8-7-6: User's Responsibility
8-7-7: Extension Of Mains
8-7-8: Change In Occupancy
8-7-9: Meter Failure
8-7-10: Collection
8-7-11: Charges Combined
8-7-12: Liability For Payment
8-7-13: Special Charges
8-7-14: Waterworks Fund
8-7-15: Water Conservation
8-7-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Water service shall be furnished only to City users upon filing of an
application and water user's agreement with the City Collector upon a form to
be supplied by the City. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-2: INITIAL AND MINIMUM CHARGED WHETHER WATER USED OR NOT:
   (A)   The rates shown in the rate schedule in section
8-7-3 of this chapter shall be paid by each customer, who has signed a user's
contract, beginning at the time the City makes the service available to the
customer.
   (B)   The minimum rate will be paid by those customers not using the service
even though they may not be connected to the system, provided the service is
available from the City. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
   (C)   There shall be a tap-on fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
service to each property in which an application and water user's agreement has
been filed prior to the start of the initial construction. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-
1993; amd. 2018 Code)
   (D)   The following deposits will be required to guarantee payment of water
bills:
 
3/4 inch meter or larger A deposit equal to the cost of the water meter
 
(Ord. 2007-14, 4-22-2008; amd. 2018 Code)
The deposit shall be returned to user without interest upon termination of
water service and all accounts of that user being paid. (Ord. 2007-14, 4-22-
2008)
8-7-3: RATE SCHEDULE:
Effective May 1, 2016, the following shall be the rates for water supplied by
the City of Carthage:
   (A)   Minimum Monthly Rate:
   WATER RATES - ONE MONTH
   (Based On 1,100 Gallons Minimum Per Month)
 
001 Residential/inside    $18.15 ($6.11 loan obligation + $12.04)
002 Large quantity users  $21.89 ($6.11 + $15.78)
003 Outside City limits   $27.23 ($6.11 + $21.12) (1.5 x residential rate of
                          $18.15)
006 Flat rate/residential $18.15 (same as 001)
 
$6.08/1,000 gallons residential
$7.78/1,000 gallons large quantity
$10.41/1,000 gallons outside City/residential rate
(Ord. 2015-14, 4-12-2016)
The minimum monthly rate will be payable irrespective of use. (Ord. 2009-19, 4-
27-2009)
One dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per month shall be added to each water bill to
supplement the payment of water meter replacement. (Ord. 2010-14, 4-29-2011;
amd. Ord. 2015-14, 4-12-2016)
   (B)   Increase: An automatic three percent (3%) increase in the water rates
will take effect every May 1, beginning May 1, 2017 unless the City Council of
the City of Carthage votes to amend the automatic three percent (3%) increase.
(Ord. 2015-14, 4-12-2016)
   (C)   Review: The rates and charges above set forth shall be reviewed
annually and periodic adjustments of such rates and charges may be made as may
be appropriate from time to time.
   (D)   Appeals: The method for computation of such rates and service charges
set forth herein and established for user charges under this section shall be
made available to a user within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request
requesting same. Any disagreement over the method used or the computations
contained therein shall be rendered by the City within fourteen (14) days after
notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies. (Ord.
2009-19, 4-27-2009; amd. Ord. 2015-14, 4-12-2016)
8-7-4: PAYMENT OF BILLS:
   (A)   Date Due: The meters will be read by the City on or about the 15th day
of each month. If weather conditions or other conditions or other circumstances
prevent the reading of meters, each water bill will be estimated by the City.
Bills will be mailed on or about the 1st day of each month and will be
delinquent twenty (20) days after mailing. Bills will be paid to the City
Collector or his designated representative. (Ord. 2012-6, 11-13-2012)
   (B)   Penalties For Late Payment: There will be a ten percent (10%) penalty
added to each bill that is unpaid twenty (20) days after mailing. If any bills
remain unpaid thirty (30) days after mailing, the water supply to the property
affected will be shut off by the City and the service will not be restored
until the delinquency and penalty are paid in full. In addition a service fee
of forty dollars ($40.00) will be added to cover the cost of restoring service
during normal business hours Monday - Friday 7:00 A.M. - 3:00 P.M. Bills
remaining unpaid following proper notice and termination of service shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate to which the service has been rendered.
The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of such lien
in the Office of the Recorder of Hancock County, Illinois, and the City
Attorney is authorized to pursue such legal action as is necessary to collect
the delinquent charges. All recording fees, expenses and reasonable attorney's
fees will also be a lien upon the real estate and shall be paid prior to the
service being restored. (Ord. 2012-6, 11-13-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
8-7-5: CITY RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY:
   (A)   Ownership, Installation And Maintenance: The City shall install, own
and maintain the complete water system and water mains. The City shall furnish,
install and maintain a meter. A curb stop valve shall be installed six feet
(6') from the user's property line or such other point determined by a duly
authorized representative of the City. The meter may be located near the curb
stop valve or within the user's premises as determined by the City
representative. The meter and curb stop valve must be located at a point where
it is readily accessible.
   (B)   Refusal Of Service: The City may at any time refuse additional service
(s) to any applicant if in the judgment of the City Council the capacity of the
system will not permit such use.
   (C)   Liability: All water service supplied by the City shall be upon the
express condition that the City shall not be liable nor shall any claim be made
against it for damages or injury caused by reason of shutting off water for
repair, relocation or expansion of any part of the system, or failure of any
part of the system for the concentration of water for such purposes as
firefighting or restricted use of water.
   (D)   Use Of Water On User's Premises: The City shall reserve the right to
use the water from the user's facilities at any time deemed necessary. No
charge shall be made by the user for the use of his facilities and no charge
will be made by the City for the water used by the City. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-6: USER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
   (A)   Installing And Maintaining Service Lines: The user shall be
responsible for installation and maintenance of service lines between the water
main and the residence or business. Such service lines must be at least three-
fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and must be installed at a minimum depth of
three and one-half feet (31/2'). Service lines must have a minimum working
pressure rating of one hundred sixty (160) psi at seventy three and four-tenths
degrees Fahrenheit (73.4°F) and must be constructed of one of the following
types of materials: copper (type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene or
polybutylene. Service lines must not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by a duly authorized City representative. The user will not connect
any service line to any other water source. The service line must meet any
requirements of the State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
That all plumbing installed within the City or into the City water supply
system shall be installed in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77
Illinois Administrative Code 890. That, if in accordance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water
customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall at his own expense install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and local regulations.
That no person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the City
may enter the supply or distribution system of such Municipality, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of Water and
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
That it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2)
years, or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records
of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five (5) years.
That the approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the City for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the City for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this chapter.
That the Superintendent of Water of the City is hereby authorized and directed
to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions
of this chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary
measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of
the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property
shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee
of thirty dollars ($30.00) is paid to the City. Immediate disconnection with
verbal notice can be effected when the Superintendent of Water is assured that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the
Superintendent of Water or the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, such
action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of
the public water supply. Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent of
Water or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury,
damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's
water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said
termination was with or without notice.
That the consumer responsible for backsiphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   (B)   Provisions For Location Of Meter: The user shall permit the meter and
remote reader to be located upon his property.
   (C)   Easements: The user shall give such easements and rights-of- way as
necessary to the City and allow access for the purposes of construction,
repair, maintenance, meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water
system. The necessity shall be determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Damage To City's Property: No user shall tamper, adjust, damage or in
any manner interfere with the components or operation of the water system owned
by the City. The shut-off valve shall be opened only by a duly authorized
representative of the City. Penalty for tampering, damaging, adjusting or in
any manner interfering with the components of operation of the system shall be
up to one hundred dollars ($100.00), payable to the City. If the penalty is not
paid within thirty (30) days after the amount is determined, the City shall
shut off the water service. The amount of penalty shall be determined by the
City Council. In addition to the penalty, the user responsible shall reimburse
the City for the actual cost of repairing any damage arising from the user's
act. Users shall report any known evidence of tampering, adjusting, damaging or
interference with operation of the system owned by the City to the City office.
Any malicious act or damage to the system that is not appropriately punishable
by the foregoing shall be prosecuted through a court of law.
   (E)   Specified Uses Of Water: Water purchased from the City may be used for
ordinary domestic, industrial or farm use upon the premises of the user
provided:
      1.   No user shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased from
the City.
      2.   Each dwelling, apartment, business and livestock tap is a separate
unit. The user must make application for service for each unit, and each unit
shall have a separate shut-off valve, meter and service line, and user shall
pay the minimum monthly rate and other rates and fees herein established for
each unit.
   (F)   Demolition Of Buildings: Upon the demolition of any building the owner
shall be responsible for all necessary costs to disconnect the water service at
the public water main. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-7: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   (A)   Determination Of Who Pays Expense Of Extension: The City Council shall
first determine if an extension of water main is economically feasible based on
the estimated cost of the extension and the number of existing potential users
that will use water along the extension. If the extension is economically
feasible, the City may install and pay the cost of the extension at the
discretion of the City Council. If the City elects not to pay the cost of
extending the water main, the person or persons desiring water service shall
install the extension at their own personal expense upon written consent of the
City Council. The City shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area
such as a subdivision being developed unless there are sufficient existing
residents or businesses to make the extension economically feasible.
   (B)   Requirements If Extension Is Installed By Someone Other Than The City:
      1.   The City must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
      2.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      3.   Ownership, rights-of-way and title must be conveyed to the City for
all extensions installed by anyone other than the City. The City will maintain
the mains thereafter.
      4.   No extension will be permitted if in the opinion of the City Council
the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-8: CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Notice To City: Any user requesting a termination of service shall
give notice to the City office at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the
time such termination of service is desired. The meter shall be read by the
City and the user will be billed.
   (B)   Responsibility For Payment Of Services Already Consumed:
Responsibility for payment for water consumed prior to the date of termination
shall be with the property owners as well as the user.
   (C)   Charges For Change: There shall be no charge for transferring the
water service to the subsequent user. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-9: METER FAILURE:
Whenever, for any cause, a water meter fails to operate, a reasonable estimate
shall be made by the City Collector of the amount of water supplied during the
period such meter fails to operate and the user shall pay a rate based in whole
or in part on the estimated amount of water supplied. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-10: COLLECTION:
Charges for water works service only shall be made and collected against each
lot, parcel of land and premises receiving water from the City which shall not
be connected with the sewerage system of the City. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-11: CHARGES COMBINED:
Charges for water service and sewerage service shall be united in the same bill
and payment for the one charge shall not be accepted without payment of the
other charge. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-12: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
The owner of any lot, parcel of land or premises receiving any of the services
of the water system of the City, the occupant of such premises and the user of
the services shall be jointly and severally liable for payment of services to
such lots, parcel of land or premises and all services are rendered to the
premises by the City only on the condition that such owner, occupant and user
shall be jointly and severally liable therefor to the City. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-
1993)
8-7-13: SPECIAL CHARGES:
The City Council reserves the right to make special charges for water service
supplied to properties not covered by the above rates or which, in the judgment
of the Council, should be charged special rates. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
8-7-14: WATERWORKS FUND:
The City Collector shall receive all such revenues from the waterworks system
and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the
same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in a separate fund designated
as the "Waterworks Operation and Maintenance Fund" of the City and the City
Treasurer shall administer such fund in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 93-8,
8-10-1993)
8-7-15: WATER CONSERVATION:
   (A)   The City shall determine the average monthly consumption per metered
water location, such determination can be by action of the City, considered the
unique circumstances of the consumption history of any particular user.
   (B)   The City shall then determine the amount of water consumption
necessary for the City as a whole.
   (C)   The City shall base the water consumption rate to be applied to such
user as provided in section
8-7-3 of this chapter on the amount of consumption determined in subsection (A)
of this section, reduced by the amount of conservation determined necessary in
subsection (B) of this section.
   (D)   All consumption occurring in excess of the consumption provided for
herein shall be at a rate to be established by the City. (Ord. 93-8, 8-10-1993)
CHAPTER 8
USE OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS 1
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: Use Of Public Sewers; Mandatory Connections
8-8-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-8-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-8-5: Discharge Of Wastes Into Sewers
8-8-6: Rejection Or Conditions Of Discharged Wastes
8-8-7: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
8-8-8: Industrial Wastes
8-8-9: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
8-8-10: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-8-11: Wastewater Service Charges
8-8-11-1: Basis For Wastewater Service Charges
8-8-12: Billing Procedure
8-8-12-1: Liable To City
8-8-12-2: Payment Of Bills
8-8-12-3: (Rep. by Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
8-8-12-4: (Rep. by Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
8-8-12-5: Foreclosure Of Lien
8-8-12-6: Revenues
8-8-12-7: Accounts
8-8-12-8: Notice Of Rates
8-8-12-9: Penalty
8-8-12-10: Access To Records
8-8-13: Penalties
8-8-14: Use Of Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply Prohibited
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 7 of this title.
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is
permissible.
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
      Administrator: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
      Federal Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1251 et
seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of
1972 (Pub. L. 92-500 and Pub. L. 93-243).
      Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
      Approving Authority: The City Council of the City of Carthage.
      City: The City of Carthage.
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Act.
   SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
      Building Drain: That portion of the lowest piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
      Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
City of Carthage.
It shall also include sewers within or outside the City boundaries that serve
one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the City sanitary (or
combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with City funds.
      Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   STATE GOVERNMENT:
      Director: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      State Act: The Illinois Antipollution Bond Act of 1970.
      State Grant: The State of Illinois participating in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Antipollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
   TREATMENT:
      Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
   TYPES OF CHARGES:
      Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding
and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the number of
users connected to the wastewater facilities.
      Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
      Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in section
8-8-3 of this chapter.
      Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated and shall be twenty (20) years from the
date of start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a State grant.
      User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
      Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in user charges system and shall consist of the total or the basic
user charge, the debt service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   USER TYPES:
      Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the City
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      Industrial User: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment
works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office
of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
      (A)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
      (B)   Division B - Mining;
      (C)   Division D - Manufacturing;
      (D)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services;
      (E)   Division I - Services;
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the
approving authority that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      Residential, Commercial Or Non-Industrial User: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user as
provided for in this section.
      User Class: The type of user either "residential or commercial" (non-
industrial) or "industrial" as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
      Effluent Criteria: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      Floatable Oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
      (A)   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
work day; or
      (B)   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by
the Municipal system receiving the waste; or
      (C)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (D)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 mL) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
      ppm: Parts per million by weight.
      pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen- ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard
Methods".
      Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids.
      Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
      Sewage: Sewage is used interchangeable with wastewater.
      Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
      Standard Methods: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      Suspended Solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
      Unpolluted Water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
      Water Quality Standards: Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
      Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
      Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976; amd.
2018 Code)
8-8-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS; MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the City, are
hereby required at their expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one
hundred feet (100') (30.5 m) of the property line. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff.
11-1-1976)
8-8-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   (A)   Compliance With Regulations:
      1.   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of section
8-8-2 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
      2.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet (1858.0
square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to
any natural outlet.
   (B)   Private Sewage Disposal Permit:
      1.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the approving
authority. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as are deemed necessary by the approving authority.
      2.   A permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be
paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
      3.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
approving authority. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
approving authority when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the approving authority.
   (C)   Operation In Sanitary Manner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no
expense to the City.
   (D)   Connect To Public Sewer When Available:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section
8-8-2 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt.
   (E)   Interference: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
any authorized governmental agency. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
8-8-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
approving authority.
   (B)   Building Sewer Permits:
      1.   There shall be the following classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service, and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. (Ord.
76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the approving authority. The industry as a condition of permit
authorization must provide information describing the wastewater constituents
characteristics, quantity and type of activity. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff.
11-1-1976; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (C)   Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the approving authority when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the approving authority or his representative. (Ord. 76-9, 10-
25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
   (D)   Costs And Expenses:
      1.   Owner Responsible: All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of a building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
All costs and expenses of the maintenance of and/or replacement of the sewer
service connection line from the City sewer main to the resident or business
building shall be the responsibility of the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation, maintenance and/or replacement of the building sewer.
(Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
      2.   Sewer Connection Fee: There shall be a charge of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for connection to the City sewage system. (Ord. 93-9, 8-10-
1993; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Demolition Of Buildings: Upon the demolition of any building the
owner shall be responsible for all necessary costs to disconnect the sewer
service at the public sewer main. (Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
   (E)   Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building; except that where one building stands at the rear of another on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
      2.   The size, slope, alignment, materials or construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice no. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
      3.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor, in all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection (G)1 of this section, and discharged
to the building sewer, the cost of such means shall be borne by the owner.
      4.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice no. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the approving authority
before installation.
      5.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with any new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the approving authority,
to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Excavations And Protection Of Public Ways: All excavations for
building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the City.
   (G)   Discharges Restricted:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system shall be unlawful
except discharges in compliance with Federal standards and any more stringent
State and local standards.
      2.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-1976)
8-8-5: DISCHARGE OF WASTES INTO SEWERS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   1. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the approving authority. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
approving authority, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
      5.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the approving authority that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
approving authority will give consideration as to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/L) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable to toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the approving authority for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the approving authority as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the approving authority in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligrams
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the approving authority in
compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time
except as permitted by the approving authority in compliance with applicable
State and Federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-1976)
8-8-6: REJECTION OR CONDITIONS OF DISCHARGED WASTES:
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection
8-8-5(F) of this chapter, and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA Rules and Regulations, subchapter D,
Water Programs part 128 - Pretreatment Standards, Federal Register volume 38,
no. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973, and any amendments thereto, and which in
the judgment of the approving authority may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the approving
authority may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions of
subsection
8-8-8(D) of this chapter.
If the approving authority permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the approving authority, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-
1976)
8-8-7: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
approving authority they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, and/or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the approving authority, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-
1976)
8-8-8: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
   (A)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense.
   (B)   Each new industry shall be required to install a control manhole and,
when required by the approving authority, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the approving
authority. The manhole shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (C)   1. The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurement, total and averages of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the approving authority or regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
      2.   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analysis to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the approving authority, but
not less than one per year. The industry must supply a complete analysis of
constituents of wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with Federal,
State and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analysis to the City at times and in such a manner
prescribed by the approving authority. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurement, analysis and reporting required by the City.
      3.   At such times as deemed necessary, the City reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (D)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer at the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from a
24 hour composite of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.)
   (E)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with this chapter, section
8-8-2 of this chapter, by the industrial concern. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-1976)
8-8-9: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 76-8, 10-
25-1976)
8-8-10: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   (A)   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
City, IEPA and USEPA, bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The approving authority or his representatives shall have no authority
to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for
waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection (A) of this section, the approving authority or duly authorized
employees of the City, IEPA, USEPA shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the City, IEPA and USEPA employees and the City shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by City employees
and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling the
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in subsection
 8-8-8(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement
or, in the absence of said easement, for existing sewer lines, for the purposes
of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measuring, sampling, repair,
and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement.
All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-1976)
8-8-11: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
8-8-11-1: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
The wastewater service charge for the use of, and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the City shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance, plus replacement charge.
   (A)   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge shall be based on water usage
as recorded by water meters and for wastewater having the following normal
concentrations:
      1.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of two hundred four milligrams per liter (204 mg/L);
      2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred forty milligrams per
liter (240 mg/L);
It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs, plus replacement, and
shall be computed as follows:
      1.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all work categories;
      2.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume of water usage as recorded by water meters;
      3.   Proportion the estimated costs to residential and commercial/
institutional users by volume of water usage;
      4.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength;
The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed annually by
certified public accountants for the City in their annual audit report. The
wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in
debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs including
replacement costs. (Ord. 2009-19, 4-27-2009)
   (B)   Basic User Rate: Effective May 1, 2016:
   SEWER RATES - ONE MONTH
   (Based On 1,100 Gallons Minimum Per Month)
 
001 Inside/residential  $ 8.85
002 Inside/commercial   11.64
003 Outside/residential 13.28 ($8.85 x 1.5)
006 Flat rate           8.85
 
$3.50/1,000 residential/inside
$6.50/1,000 residential/outside
$4.85/1,000 inside commercial
   (C)   Increase: An automatic three percent (3%) increase in the sewer rates
will take effect every May 1, beginning May 1, 2017 unless the City Council of
the City of Carthage votes to amend the automatic three percent (3%) increase.
(Ord. 2015-14, 4-12-2016)
   (D)   Review: The basic user rate shall be reviewed annually by the City and
periodic adjustments to such basic user rates shall be made as may be
appropriate from time to time. (Ord. 2009-19, 4-27-2009)
8-8-12: BILLING PROCEDURE:
8-8-12-1: LIABLE TO CITY:
   (A)   Owner, Occupant, User Liable: The owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to the
premises by the City, only upon the condition that the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the services are jointly liable therefor to the City.
(Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
   (B)   Charges Combined: Charges for water service and for sewerage service
shall be united in the same bill and payment of one charge shall not be
accepted without payment of the other charge. (Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
8-8-12-2: PAYMENT OF BILLS:
   (A)   Date Due: The meters will be read by the City on or about the 15th day
of each month. If weather conditions or other circumstances prevent the reading
of meters, each sewer bill will be estimated by the City. Bills will be mailed
on or about the 1st day of each month and will be delinquent twenty (20) days
after mailing. Bills will be paid to the City Collector of the City or his
designated representative. (Ord. 2012-6, 11-13-2012)
   (B)   Penalties For Late Payment: There will be a ten percent (10%) penalty
added to each bill that is unpaid twenty (20) days after mailing. Bills
remaining unpaid following proper notice and termination of service shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate to which the service has been rendered.
The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of such lien
in the Office of the Recorder of Hancock County, Illinois, and the City
Attorney is authorized to pursue such legal action as is necessary to collect
the delinquent charges. All recording fees, expenses and reasonable attorney's
fees will also be a lien upon the real estate and shall be paid prior to the
service being restored. (Ord. 2012-6, 11-13-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
8-8-12-3: (Rep. by Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
8-8-12-4: (Rep. by Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
8-8-12-5: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment of
the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the City. The City
Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the
name of the City in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid forty five (45) days after it
has been rendered. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
8-8-12-6: REVENUES:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage system shall
be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All such revenues
and monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from his
private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the City, and all
of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the City
Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such
more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Mayor and
Council. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage system and
all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the same
may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the fund
designated as the Sewerage Fund of the City. The Treasurer shall administer
such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute in such cases may
provide. (Ord. 93-9, 8-10-1993)
8-8-12-7: ACCOUNTS:
The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and keep proper
books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be made
of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and at regular annual
intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing concern
of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the sewerage system.
In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit report
shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit report shall
include the following:
   (A)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year;
   (B)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
   (C)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
   (D)   Number of users connected to the system;
   (E)   Number of nonmetered users. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
8-8-12-8: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this section
8-8-12 properly certified by the City Treasurer, shall be filed in the Office
of the Recorder of Deeds of Hancock County, and shall be deemed notice to all
owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of said City on
their properties. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
8-8-12-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of sections
 8-8-12-1 through
 8-8-12-10 of this section
8-8-12 shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each offense. (Ord. 76-9, 10-25-1976,
eff. 11-1-1976; amd. 2018 Code)
8-8-12-10: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the City which
are applicable to the City system of user charges for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the special and general conditions to any State grant. (Ord.
76-9, 10-25-1976, eff. 11-1-1976)
8-8-13: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
section
8-8-10 of this chapter, shall be served by the City with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The City may revoke
any permit for sewage discharge as a result of any violation of any provision
of this chapter. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-1976)
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection (A) of this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not
exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each violation unless otherwise
provided. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-1976; amd. 2018 Code)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the City by reason of such violation. (Ord. 76-8, 10-25-1976)
8-8-14: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Use Of Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply Prohibited: The use or
attempt to use a potable water supply groundwater from within the corporate
limits of the City of Carthage, as a potable water supply, by the installation
or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This
prohibition does not include the City of Carthage, Illinois.
   (B)   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) up to five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation, each day to be a separate
violation.
   (C)   Definitions:
      PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
   (D)   Memorandum Of Understanding: The Mayor of the City of Carthage is
hereby authorized and directed to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (“Illinois EPA”) in which the City
of Carthage assumes responsibility for tracking all sites that have received no
further remediation determinations from the Illinois EPA, notifying the
Illinois EPA of changes to this section, and taking certain precautions when
siting public potable water supply wells. (Ord. 2024-11, 9-24-2024)
CHAPTER 9
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose And Scope
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
8-9-4: Dispute Resolution
8-9-5: Indemnification
8-9-6: Insurance
8-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   (B)   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-8, 7-25-2018)
8-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE: A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or Historic District by an ordinance adopted by the
City pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE: A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018-8, 7-25-2018)
8-9-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   (A)   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection (C)9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but
not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-
of-way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
         (a)   Priority: The first completed application shall have priority
over applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   Existing Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the City
fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the
submission of a completed application.
            However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
seventy five (75) days after the submission of a completed application.
            The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day
after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this section.
         (c)   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to
approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
submission of a completed application.
            However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
            The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day
after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this section.
         (d)   Denial: The City shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
            If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific Code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
City denies an application.
            The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and
resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The City shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
            The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to
proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
            Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the City for the initial collocation on a Municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
         Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City;
or
         (b)   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
         If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
City may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and
treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable City code provisions or regulations
in effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the City by personal
delivery at the City's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
         A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment.
         Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on
such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code
of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Worker Safety Zone Or Electric Supply Zone: The wireless provider
shall not collocate small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are
part of an electric distribution or transmission system within the
communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the
pole.
         However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the City utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a Historic District.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions subsection, a wireless provider shall not be
required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole,
or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna
systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility
pole, the City may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
         New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility
pole, other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in
place on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located
within three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or
wireless support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in section
10-11-1 et seq., of this Code.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection (B)1(d) of this section; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a Park District, Forest
Preserve District, or Conservation District for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
         For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning
given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a)
to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   (G)   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
      If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
      The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells
or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018-8, 7-25-2018)
8-9-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Hancock County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2018-8, 7-25-2018)
8-9-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of- way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-8, 7-25-2018)
8-9-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   (A)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   (B)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   (C)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits
consistent with its requirements of other users of City improvements or rights-
of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 2018-8, 7-25-2018)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Through, One-Way Streets; Stop Intersections   2
Reserved   3
Pedestrians   4
Parking Rules   5
Condition Of Vehicles   6
Drivers   7
Snowmobiles   8
Golf Carts And Utility Terrain Vehicles   9
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-0: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Classification Of Vehicles
9-1-3: Obedience To Police
9-1-4: Scene Of Fire
9-1-5: Signs And Signals
9-1-6: Light Signals
9-1-7: Unauthorized Signs; Interference With Signs
9-1-8: Animals Or Bicycles
9-1-9: Exemptions
9-1-10: Lug Wheels Prohibited
9-1-11: Load Limitation
9-1-12: Toy Vehicles
9-1-13: Left Turns, Certain Intersections
9-1-0: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5 as passed, approved
and amended is hereby adopted by the City of Carthage as if fully set out
herein; the provisions therefore be controlling within the corporate limits of
the City of Carthage. (2018 Code)
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this title the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   ALLEY: A highway of less than twenty four feet (24') total width used
primarily for delivery service.
   CROSSWALK: That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of
the sidewalk lines at street intersections.
   DRIVER: Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the Police or Fire Department; ambulances;
any vehicle conveying a City official or employee in response to an emergency
official call.
   EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed
cup test device.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
   INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation of the property
lines of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such
streets cross.
   LANED HIGHWAY: A street, the roadway of which is divided into three (3) or
more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   METAL TIRE: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   PARK: To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the City or by any park district, school
district, the State of Illinois or the United States government.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The closely built up residence portion of the City.
   ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
traffic.
   SAFETY ZONE: That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
   SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   SEMI-TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
   SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STREET: Every way set aside for public travel except foot paths.
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT: That portion of the City other than the closely built up
business and residence districts.
   TRAFFIC: Vehicles, pedestrians and draft or herded animals using any street
for travel.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no
part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including bicycles but not including
perambulators or toy vehicles.
   YIELD THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: When required an official sign means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within their intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left, but when the highway is clear may proceed into the intersection. (Ord.
587, 3-7-1955; amd. Ord. 69-22, 3-2-1970)
9-1-2: CLASSIFICATION OF VEHICLES:
For the purposes of this title, motor vehicles shall be divided into the
following divisions: first, vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not
more than seven (7) passengers; second, those vehicles which are designed and
used for pulling or carrying freight and also vehicles designed and used for
carrying more than seven (7) persons. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE:
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a
policeman, except in case of emergency. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-4: SCENE OF FIRE:
The Fire Department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him may
exercise the powers and authority of a policeman in directing traffic at the
scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to any emergency
call for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene, in the
absence of or in assisting the police. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-5: SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the City Council
or in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois. All signs established
by direction of the Governing Body shall conform to the State standards for
traffic signs. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-6: LIGHT SIGNALS:
Whenever traffic at an intersection is regulated by the type of signal commonly
known as a stop and go signal, the following colors shall indicate the
following commands:
   (A)   Red requires that traffic faced by this color shall stop and remain
standing.
   (B)   Green requires that traffic faced by this color shall move and
continue in motion, except when stopped for the purposes of avoiding an
accident or when stopped at the command of a policeman.
   (C)   Amber or yellow indicates preparation for a change in direction of
traffic movement.
   (D)   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes, drivers
of vehicles shall stop before entering the intersection.
   (E)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles may proceed into the intersection only with extra caution.
(Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-7: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS; INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display any
device, other than an official warning or direction sign or signal authorized
by statute or ordinance upon or in view of any street, if such device purports
to be, or is in imitation of, an official warning or direction sign or signal,
or directs or purports to direct the movement of traffic. Any such unauthorized
device is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be removed by any
policeman.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or
interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-8: ANIMALS OR BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal; provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks. (Ord.
587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of vehicles
shall not apply to emergency vehicles while the driver thereof is engaged in
the performance of emergency duties, nor shall such provisions apply to persons
actually engaged in repairing or otherwise improving the streets under
authority of the City Council or of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-1-10: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful within the limits of the City for any person to operate or
drive upon any of the public streets of the City any engine, tractor,
caterpillar, truck or other similar vehicles, having metallic covered wheels,
while such metallic covered wheels have attached or fixed thereto any metallic
cleats or lugs or other similar metallic contrivances, in such manner as to
come in contact with the surface of such street. This provision shall not apply
to the operation on any street of such engine, tractor, caterpillar, truck or
other similar vehicle used in the grading or ditching of such street. (Ord.
395, 3-3-1930)
9-1-11: LOAD LIMITATION:
A vehicular weight limit of four (4) tons be and the same is hereby imposed
upon Main Street, Carthage, Illinois, between Marion Street and Prairie Avenue.
(Ord. 78-6, 7-25-1978; amd. 2018 Code)
The Police Department shall have the discretionary enforcement powers to permit
vehicles in excess of the above limitation to enter upon Main Street while
performing domestic services including, but not limited to, such activities as
garbage collection, moving vans, delivery of goods and merchandise to
residential locations along Main Street and other operations of a local nature
when weather conditions are not unfavorable to the use of Main Street. (Ord.
78-6, 7-25-1978)
Any person who violates this section shall upon conviction thereof, be fined
not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 78-6, 7-25-1978; amd. 2018 Code)
9-1-12: TOY VEHICLES:
Persons upon skates, rollerblades, skateboards or other toy vehicles may
operate said toy vehicles on the roadway during daylight hours only, provided
there is no obstruction of traffic. No person shall operate any toy vehicle
upon the streets around the public square or on Highway 136 or Highway 94.
Electric motorized scooters may be ridden by persons ten (10) years of age or
older, provided there is no obstruction of traffic. Such scooters must be of
electric battery power only. No gas powered scooters allowed. No person shall
operate said scooters upon the streets around the public square or on Highway
136 or Highway 94. (Ord. 2005-15, 4-12-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
9-1-13: LEFT TURNS, CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS:
No person driving a vehicle shall make a left turn at the following described
intersections:
Intersection of Adams Street and Main Street when approaching the intersection
from the north.
Intersection of Adams Street and Wabash Street when approaching the
intersection from the east.
Intersection of Madison Street and Wabash Street when approaching the
intersection from the south.
Intersection of Main Street and Madison Street when approaching the
intersection from the west. (Ord. 629, 6-24-1957; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
THROUGH, ONE-WAY STREETS; STOP INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Through Streets
9-2-2: Right-Of-Way; Stop Streets
9-2-3: One-Way Streets
9-2-4: One-Way Alleys
9-2-5: Yield Right-Of-Way
9-2-1: THROUGH STREETS:
The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to constitute
through streets and every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the
intersection of any through street:
Adams Street, from Miller Street to Buchanan Street; from Buchanan Street to
the public square; and from the southerly terminus of said street to the public
square.
Buchanan Street, from the City limits to Madison Street.
Douglas Street, from the City limits to Buchanan Street.
Kiwanis Street, from the intersection of Fayette Street to bsi Route 94.
Locust Street, from First Street to Washington Street and from Quincy Road to
Adams Street.
Madison Street, from the north limits of the City to Buchanan Street; from
Buchanan Street to the public square; and from the southerly terminus of said
street to the public square.
Main Street, from the City limits to the public square.
Marion Street, from the north limits of the City to Buchanan Street, from
Buchanan Street to Main Street and from the south limits of the City to Wabash
Street.
Miller Street, from Scofield Street to Madison Street and from Fayette Street
to Madison Street.
Quincy Road, from the City limits to Locust Street.
Scofield Street, from the north limits of the City to Buchanan Street, from
Buchanan Street to Wabash Street and from the south limits of the City to
Wabash Street.
Wabash Street, from the east limits of the City to the public square, and from
the westerly terminus of said street to the public square.
Walnut Street, from Washington Street to Head Street and from the east limits
of the City to Head Street.
Washington Street, from Miller Street to Buchanan Street, from Buchanan Street
to Main Street and from the southern limits of the City to Wabash Street. (Ord.
69-22, 3-2-1970; amd. Ord. 2007-5, 8-28-2007)
9-2-2: RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP STREETS:
   (A)   The City may, in its discretion, when traffic conditions warrant such
action give preference to traffic upon any of the streets under its
jurisdiction, or with traffic crossing or entering such street by erecting
proper stop signs or stoplights.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by section
9-2-1 of this chapter at the entrance of a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from said
through street or which are approaching so closely on said through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver having so yielded may proceed
at such time as a safe interval occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street and shall
proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which are
within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but then may proceed.
   (D)   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are placed at an intersection
or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers of vehicles
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and pedestrians within or
entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right- of-
way over a vehicle so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right-
of-way to pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to pedestrians within any
crosswalk at the intersection. (Ord. 69-22, 3-2-1970)
9-2-3: ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following streets are hereby designated as one-way streets:
Adams Street, between its intersections with Wabash Street and Main Street.
Madison Street, between its intersections with Main Street and Wabash Street.
Main Street, between its intersections with Adams Street and Madison Street.
Wabash Street, between its intersections with Madison Street and Adams Street.
And every driver of a "vehicle" as defined in section
9-1-1 of this title except "emergency vehicles", as also defined in section
9-1-1 of this title shall proceed in the direction indicated on the following
streets:
Adams Street, between Wabash Street and Main Street drive in a westerly
direction.
Madison Street, between Main Street and Wabash Street drive in a southerly
direction.
Main Street, between Adams Street and Madison Street drive in a westerly
direction.
Wabash Street, between Madison Street and Adams Street drive in an easterly
direction. (Ord. 629, 6-24-1957)
9-2-4: ONE-WAY ALLEYS:
The following alleys are hereby designated as one-way alleys:
   (A)   Each of the alleys connecting with Wabash Street, South Adams Street,
Main Street and South Madison Street on the public square in the City for a
distance of one-half (1/2) block from the streets forming the public square in
the City. No driver of a "vehicle" as defined in section
9-1-1 of this title, except emergency vehicles, shall drive in a direction
leading into the public square of the City in such enumerated alleys. No driver
of a vehicle, except emergency vehicles, shall enter upon the public square of
the City from any alley connecting with the public square of the City.
   (B)   The alley originating at North Madison Street running east to the
alley running north and south between Main Street and Walnut Street, commencing
at North Madison Street and running easterly.
   (C)   The alley originating at North Adams Street running west to the alley
running north and south between Main Street and Walnut Street, commencing at
North Adams Street and running westerly.
   (D)   The alley originating at Main Street between Adams Street and
Washington Street, running south to the alley running east and west between
Main Street and Wabash Street, commencing at Main Street and running southerly.
   (E)   The alley originating at the alley running north and south between
Wabash Street and Cherry Street, commencing at the southeast corner of lot 6 in
block 26 in the original town, now City of Carthage, and running westerly to
Adams Street.
   (F)   The alley originating at Wabash Street running north to the alley
running east and west between South Marion Street and South Madison Street,
commencing at Wabash Street and running northerly.
   (G)   The alley originating at Main Street running north to the alley
running east and west between North Marion Street and North Madison Street,
commencing at Main Street and running northerly.
   (H)   The alley originating at North Madison Street running west to the
alley running north and south between Main Street and Walnut Street, commencing
at North Madison Street and running westerly.
   (I)   The west one-half (1/2) of the alley originating at Lincoln Street
between Buchanan Street and Walnut Street.
   (J)   The alley originating at Buchanan Street running south to Wabash
Street between Adams Street and Washington Street, commencing at Buchanan
Street and running southerly.
No "driver" as defined in section
9-1-1 of this title, except emergency vehicles, shall drive upon the enumerated
alleys other than in the direction so stated in this section. (Ord. 97-10, 10-
14-1997)
9-2-5: YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY:
The City with reference to streets under its jurisdiction may, when traffic
conditions warrant such action, give preference to traffic through any
intersection as yield right-of-way entrances by erecting yield right-of-way
signs in lieu of stop signs.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle in obedience to a yield right- of-way sign
shall reduce the speed of his vehicle to not more than twenty (20) miles per
hour and shall yield the right-of- way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersecting street either from the right or left or which are approaching so
closely on said intersecting street as to constitute an immediate hazard; but
said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   (B)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a right-of-
way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence
of the driver's failure to yield the right-of-way. (Ord. 69-22, 3-2-1970)
CHAPTER 3
RESERVED
(2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Right-Of-Way
9-4-2: Using Roadway
9-4-3: Signals
9-4-4: Standing On Sidewalk
9-4-5: Prohibited Crossing
9-4-6: Walking Along Roadways
9-4-7: Blind Pedestrians
9-4-1: RIGHT-OF-WAY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive into any
crosswalk without the exercise of due and proper care in view of the special
use made thereof by pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into any crosswalk while
there is in such crosswalk upon the half of the roadway upon which such vehicle
is traveling any pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway until such
pedestrian shall have passed beyond the path of such vehicle, when the
pedestrian shall indicate his intention to cross.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk
for the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-4-2: USING ROADWAY:
   (A)   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing any place other
than a crosswalk he shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety
zone, if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle. (Ord. 587, 3-7-
1955)
9-4-3: SIGNALS:
At intersections where traffic is directed by a policeman or by a stop and go
signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway other than
the released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful movement of
traffic. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-4-4: STANDING ON SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as near
as is reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians. (Ord. 587, 3-7-
1955)
9-4-5: PROHIBITED CROSSING:
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk upon any
through street. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-4-6: WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-4-7: BLIND PEDESTRIANS:
Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right- of-way in crossing any street or
highway, whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by
traffic signals, anything in this title to the contrary notwithstanding. The
driver of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying
such a cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or
highway shall bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take
such precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person who is not so
carrying such a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a dog, but the
other provisions of this chapter relating to pedestrians shall then be
applicable to such person. However, the failure of a blind person to so use or
carry such a cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking
on streets, highways or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of
contributory negligence. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING RULES
SECTION:
9-5-1: No Parking Places
9-5-2: Parking At Curb
9-5-3: Vehicles for Sale
9-5-4: Loading Zone
9-5-5: All Night Parking
9-5-6: Alleys
9-5-7: Cab Stands, Bus Stands
9-5-8: Parking Limits
9-5-9: Parking Lines, Markings
9-5-1: NO PARKING PLACES:
At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of the
following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a policeman or traffic signal:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or the approach thereto;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within twenty feet
(20') of a point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (E)   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, stop sign or a through
street sign on the approaching side;
   (F)   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18');
   (H)   At any curb within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (J)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing;
   (K)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any Fire
Department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any
such station within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance;
   (L)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
   (M)   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street; (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking or at any place
where the curbing adjacent to the street or roadway has been painted a red or
yellow color; (Ord. 72-22, 1-2-1973; amd. 2018 Code)
   (O)   Beginning at a point on the north side of Buchanan Street a distance
of one hundred six feet (106') east of the east side of the intersection of
West Street and Buchanan Street and thence east along the north side of
Buchanan Street for a distance of six hundred nineteen feet (619'), excepting
therefrom that portion of the north side of Buchanan Street located two hundred
twenty two feet (222') east of the east side of the intersection of West Street
and Buchanan Street for a distance of two hundred twenty eight feet (228')
east; (Ord. 86-5, 7-22-1986)
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on Buchanan Street from the
west corporate limits to the east corporate limits, other than on the north
side of the street from one hundred ten feet (110') west of the center line of
Dallas Street to two hundred sixty five feet (265') west of the center line of
Douglas Street and on the south side of the street from six hundred fifty five
feet (655') east of the center line of West Street to three hundred twenty feet
(320') west of the center line of Douglas Street, and with the right wheels of
the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the curb and the vehicle facing in
the direction of traffic in the adjacent traffic lane. (Ord. 94-7, 3-28-1995)
Ordinances specifically designating certain streets or parts of streets where
parking is prohibited shall be and remain on file in the Office of the City
Clerk. (1979 Code)
9-5-2: PARKING AT CURB:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to
the curb, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street
other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the
vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly established curb line,
except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
(Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-5-3: VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-5-4: LOADING ZONE:
During the times specified herein it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3)
minutes, and for the driver to stand any freight carrying vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any of the following places:
   (A)   In any public alley, during any hour of the day or night.
   (B)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
   (C)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on Sunday.
   (D)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-5-5: ALL NIGHT PARKING:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than
thirty (30) minutes between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day, except physicians on emergency calls or where
posted. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955; amd. 2018 Code)
9-5-6: ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to prevent the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-5-7: CAB STANDS, BUS STANDS:
No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area designated
by authority of the City Council as a cab stand; and no vehicle other than a
bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone. (Ord. 587,
3-7-1955)
9-5-8: PARKING LIMITS:
A parking limit of ninety (90) minutes is hereby imposed in the areas
hereinafter designated between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday, inclusive, of each week and between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on Saturday
of each week:
On the south side of Wabash Street between its intersections with Madison
Street and Adams Street.
On the east side of Adams Street between its intersections with Wabash Street
and Main Street.
On the north side of Main Street between its intersections with Adams Street
and Madison Street.
On the west side of Madison Street between its intersections with Main Street
and Wabash Street.
Every driver of a vehicle as defined in section
9-1-1 of this title, except emergency vehicles, as defined in said section,
shall adhere to the parking lines or markings as are established for vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand, or to park any vehicle in
any of the areas designated in this section for a period of longer than ninety
(90) minutes on the days and during the hours specified in this section. (Ord.
637, 10-22-1957)
It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle exceeding the weight of eight
thousand (8,000) pounds to be parked on any street of the City for a period of
time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers and
the loading, unloading or delivering of materials. In no event shall the
parking of the vehicles described herein exceed a limit of forty five (45)
minutes. (Ord. 87-9, 1-12-1988)
9-5-9: PARKING LINES, MARKINGS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand, or to park any vehicle
across or upon any lines or markings established for the regulation of parking
or in any manner so that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the area so
designated by such lines or markings as established for parking at any place
within the City. (Ord. 637, 10-22-1957)
CHAPTER 6
CONDITION OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Vehicle Lights; Volunteer Firemen
9-6-2: Trucks Prohibited On Certain Streets
9-6-3: Engine Brake Noise
9-6-1: VEHICLE LIGHTS; VOLUNTEER FIREMEN:
Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer fireman may be
equipped with not to exceed two (2) lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the front and one may be mounted on the
rear of any such vehicle; except that a flashing blue light may be used only
when such fireman is responding to a fire call. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-6-2: TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery, and then for only one block on any street where official signs
prohibit the driving of such vehicles. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-6-3: ENGINE BRAKE NOISE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate
within the City of Carthage any mechanical exhaust device, engine brake,
compression brake, or similar device that results in excessive, loud or unusual
noise from such vehicle.
   (B)   Evidence that the noise from the operation of such device is audible
at a distance of three hundred feet (300') from the motor vehicle is prima
facie evidence of a violation. (Ord. 2004-11, 10-26-2004)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of
this section shall be subject to punishment by a fine of not less than seventy
five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 2004-11, 10-26-2004; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 7
DRIVERS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Age Limit
9-7-2: Liquor Or Drugs
9-7-3: Accidents
9-7-1: AGE LIMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person under sixteen (16) years of age to operate
any motor vehicle upon any street in the City, except as otherwise provided by
State law. (Ord. 587, 3-7-1955)
9-7-2: LIQUOR OR DRUGS:
It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug, to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street. (Ord. 587, 3-7-
1955)
9-7-3: ACCIDENTS:
The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with,
any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage
shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible, and give
his true name and residence to the injured person or any other persons
requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner of the
property damaged, and to a policeman if one is present. A report of each such
accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned in it to the
Chief of Police within twenty four (24) hours after the accident. (Ord. 587, 3-
7-1955)
CHAPTER 8
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: Registration
9-8-3: Equipment Required
9-8-4: Regulations
9-8-5: Unattended Vehicles
9-8-6: Traffic Regulations
9-8-7: Penalty
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   COWLING: The forward positions of a snowmobile surrounding the motor and
clutch assembly.
   OPERATE: To control the operation of the snowmobile.
   OPERATOR: A person who operates or is in actual control of the snowmobile.
   SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice in a
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners. (Ord. 80-19, 11-12-1980)
9-8-2: REGISTRATION:
All snowmobiles must be registered with the Department of Conservation and the
numbers shall be properly displayed on each side of the cowling. (Ord. 80-19,
11-12-1980)
9-8-3: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
All snowmobiles operated within the City shall have the following equipment:
   (A)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which will reduce the noise
of operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device on
such vehicle.
   (B)   Adequate brakes in good working condition and at least one headlight
and one taillight.
   (C)   A safety or so-called "dead man" throttle in operating condition; a
safety or "dead man" throttle is defined as a device which when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle causes the motor to be disengaged from
the driving track. (Ord. 80-19, 11-12-1980)
9-8-4: REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall govern the operation of snowmobiles within the
City:
   (A)   All snowmobiles while being operated within the City shall have the
headlight and taillights lighted.
   (B)   The streets of the City may be utilized only for the purposes of
entering and leaving the City and for visitation within. When utilizing the
streets of the City, it may be operated on the pavement as close as possible to
the right side of the road.
   (C)   Snowmobiles may not be operated upon the following streets in the
City: North Madison and South Madison Street; the full length of Buchanan (U.S.
Route 136); on the streets surrounding the courthouse square; Adams Street
between Buchanan Street and Memorial Hospital; Washington Street between
Buchanan Street and Augusta Road; and Illinois Route 94 from Buchanan Street
south.
   (D)   All operators must have in their possession a valid driver's license.
Youthful operators between the ages of twelve (12) and sixteen (16) years who
have been certified by the Department of Conservation may operate a snowmobile
only if accompanied on the snowmobile by a person with a valid driver's
license. (Ord. 80-19, 11-12-1980)
9-8-5: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for the owner or operator to leave or allow a snowmobile to be
or remain unattended on public property while the motor is running or with the
keys for starting the vehicle left in the ignition. (Ord. 80-19, 11-12-1980)
9-8-6: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Each person operating a snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic signs and
signals and all other traffic rules and regulations prescribed for motor
vehicle traffic together with all traffic rules applicable thereto and shall
obey the orders and directions of any police officer of the City authorized to
direct or regulate traffic. (Ord. 80-19, 11-12-1980)
9-8-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, forfeit and pay to the City not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for each and every offense. (Ord. 80-19, 11-12-1980; amd. 2018
Code)
CHAPTER 9
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-9-1: Definitions
9-9-2: Vehicle Requirements
9-9-3: Restrictions
9-9-4: Operation On Golf Carts/Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles/UTV
9-9-5: Annual Registration Of Golf Carts/Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle/UTV
9-9-6: Inspection Of Vehicles
9-9-7: Mandatory Insurance
9-9-8: Operation Limited To Licensed Drivers
9-9-9: Other Laws, Regulations, And Ordinances
9-9-10: Recognition Of Other Jurisdiction Registrations
9-9-11: Use Under the Influence
9-9-12: Convictions
9-9-13: Penalty
9-9-14: Waver Of Fee
9-9-15: Prior Ordinances
9-9-16: Invalidity
9-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words, terms. and titles shall have the
following meanings:
 
                                  A vehicle specifically designed and
                                  intended for the purpose of transporting
                                  one or more persons and their golf clubs
                                  or maintenance equipment while engaged
GOLF CART:                        in the playing of gold, supervising the
                                  play of golf, or maintaining the
                                  condition of the grounds on a public or
                                  private golf course as defined by 625
                                  ILCS 5/1-129.9 and 11-1426.1(a)(2) of
                                  the Illinois Vehicle Code.
                                  Any motorized off-highway devise
                                  designed to travel primarily off-
                                  highway, sixty-four (64) inches or less
                                  in width, having a manufacturer's dry
                                  weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or
RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE/ less traveling on four (4) or more non-
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV):    highway tires, designed with a non-
                                  straddle seat and a steering wheel for
                                  steering control, except equipment such
                                  as lawnmowers defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-
                                  168.8 and 5/11-14261(a)(4) of the
                                  Illinois Vehicle Code and go carts.
                                  (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
 
9-9-2: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
All vehicles allowed to operate on city streets pursuant to this chapter, shall
be equipped with all of the safety systems and equipment as required by the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1) including: Brakes, a steering
apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning devises in the
front and rear, a slow moving emblem on the rear of the vehicle as required in
Section 12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-709, a headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to
the front, a tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
(100) feet from the rear, brake lights, turn signals, a windshield and any and
all other safety equipment required to be installed and operational on such
vehicles as set forth in said statute. When operated on a street, a low-speed,
vehicle shall have its headlights and tail lamps lighted as required by Section
12-201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-709. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-
2022)
9-9-3: RESTRICTIONS:
All terrain vehicles (ATV) as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code, go-carts
and all other vehicles that do not meet the requirements set forth in this
Ordinance are not authorized on the roadways of the City of Carthage. (Ord.
2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-4: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS/RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES/UTV:
Subject to die requirements of Section 11-1426.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
325 ILCS 5/11-1426.1 which are hereby adopted by reference by the City Council
of the City of Carthage, and the provisions of tills Ordinance, drivers
properly licensed to operate motor vehicles on the roadways or the City of
Carthage AND who are eighteen (18) years of age, are allowed to operate golf
carts and/or UTVs under this Chapter on the roadways of the City of Carthage,
having a posted speed limit of thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less.
However, golf carts and/or UTVs are not allowed on the City sidewalks, Illinois
State Route 136 or 94 in the City of Cartilage, with the exception of a golf
cart/UTV may cross State Route 136 or 94 at a 90 degree angle. These vehicles
are also not allowed to operate on the sections of Main, South Madison, Wabash,
and South Adams Streets that are adjacent to the Cartilage Courthouse Square
Historic District. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-5: ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF GOLF CARTS/ RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE/UTV:
No vehicle authorized under this Title and Chapter, shall be operated on any
street or alley in the City of Carthage unless the owner(s) thereof shall have
first registered such vehicle with the City of Cartilage in accordance with the
following requirements:
   A.   Registration of such vehicle shall be administered by the Chief of
Police of the City of Carthage, or his designee, an application for
registration may be made on a form prescribed by die City of Carthage. Said
form shall include a statement under oath or penalties of perjury that the
vehicle proposed to be registered meets the definition of the vehicles defined
by the state statute or in Section
9-9-1 of this Chapter and shall be accomplished by an annual registration fee
of one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00) and proof of liability
insurance for said vehicle having at least the same limits of coverage as
required from time to time for motor vehicles under the mandatory insurance law
of the State of Illinois.
   B.   Vehicles registered under this Chapter and Section of the City of
Carthage Municipal Code shall by issued a sticker from the City of Carthage
which shall be affixed to the rear of the vehicle and shall be viewable to a
Police Officer from outside of said vehicle.
   C.   Tire registration of said vehicle shall be effective for a period of
one calendar year and shall be renewed annually on May 1 of each year for one
hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00) in die same manner as the original
registration, with the exception that renewals do not require the inspection
that is defined in Section
9-9-6 of this chapter as long as there have not been any violations of this
chapter.
   D.   The registration of said vehicles shall not be transferrable in the
event of a change of ownership. A new registration fee will be required of the
new owner(s). No refund of the original registration fee is allowed in the
event of the change of ownership.
   E.   The registration of said vehicles shall be subject to revocation by the
Chief of Police of the City of Carthage in the event of a violation of the
requirements of Section 11-1426.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-
1426.1, or any of the provisions of this Ordinance. A revocation of such
registration shall be made in writing and shall set forth the provisions of the
state statute or this Ordinance that has been violated. No refund of the
registration fee is allowed in the event of revocation of said permit
   F.   In the event that the registration of a vehicle is revoked due to a
failure to maintain the required liability insurance or the failure tire
condition of the vehicle in compliance with the state statute of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, maintaining the required safety systems. The
Chief of Police of the City; or his/her designee in his/her discretion may
reinstate the registration upon documentation of reinstatement of the required
insurance coverage or of the repair of modification of the vehicle to cure any
deficiencies, as applicable, if the Chief of Police of the City of Carthage
determines that the violation was not intentional and is not likely to recur.
(Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-6: INSPECTION OP VEHICLES:
Vehicles, registered, or proposed to be registered, pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, shall be subject to inspection before issued said registration
sticker. The inspection, is only required for the first year of registration or
if a sticker lapses by more than thirty days or if there had been a violation
of this chapter or State Law. Vehicle owners may obtain an inspection form from
the City of Carthage Police Department. The City of Cartilage Chief of Police,
or his/her designee, will oversee the scheduling and execution of said
inspections and will be provided completed form by the owner. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-
28-2022)
9-9-7: MANDATORY INSURANCE:
The owner of any vehicle registered under this chapter shah continuously
maintain liability insurance for said vehicle having at least the same limit of
coverage as required from time to time for motor vehicles under the mandatory
insurance law of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-8: OPERATION LIMITED TO LICENSED DRIVERS:
All persons who operate a vehicle under the chapter within the City of Carthage
must have a valid driver's license and be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
(Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-9: OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS, AND ORDINANCES:
Vehicles registered under this chapter shall be operated at all times in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, the rules of the
road contained therein and any other laws, regulations or ordinances governing
the operation of motor vehicles m the City of Carthage as well as the laws,
regulations or ordinances, specifically pertaining to vehicles operated under
this chapter and the operation thereof. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-10: RECOGNITION OF OTHER JURISDICTION REGISTRATIONS:
The City of Carthage shall recognize registrations from other jurisdictions, so
as long as the registration is current and valid, the vehicle complies with
regulations and requirements of this chapter and the owner and/or operator's
home address is from the municipality where the vehicle is registered. (Ord.
2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-11: USE UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle authorized
under this chapter on a roadway in the City of Cartilage while under the
influence of alcohol or drugs, is subject to the provisions of Sections 11-500
through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502.
Further, a violation of the provisions of tin's Section shall be cause for the
City of Carthage to revoke the permit of the authorized vehicle. (Ord. 2022-7,
6-28-2022)
9-9-12: CONVICTIONS:
Two (2) convictions of any authorized user herein of a vehicle authorized under
the provisions of this chapter, for moving violations concerning such vehicle,
shall cause the registration provided for herein to be revoked for at least one
(1) year. It shall be the City of Carthage Chief of Police to determine if the
registration will be reinstated after the one (1) year revocation. If the Chief
of Police denies reinstatement, the applicant may appeal the decision to the
City Council. The City Council's decision on reinstatement is final. (Ord.
2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-13: PENALTY:
In addition to revocation of tire registration of a vehicle as provided in this
chapter, any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine for each offense, court costs and the
City of Cartilage's attorney's fees. The provisions hereof for prosecuting
violations of tins Chapter are not intended in any way to supersede the
provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code involving the operation of said
vehicles within the City of Cartilage. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-14: WAVER OF FEE:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the use and operation of a
vehicle solely owned by a unit of local government (i.e. City of Cartilage,
Carthage Park District, etc.); however the registration fee for such vehicles
is waived. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-15: PRIOR ORDINANCES:
All prior Ordinances and amendments to Ordinances which are inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
9-9-16: INVALIDITY:
If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Chapter is
declared or held to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the
remainder or this Chapter shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in
foil force and effect. (Ord. 2022-7, 6-28-2022)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
Comprehensive Plan; Zoning Purpose, Title   1
Rules And Definitions   2
Establishment Of Districts   3
Application Of Regulations   4
Agricultural Districts   5
Residential Districts   6
Business Districts   7
Industrial Districts   8
Special Districts   9
Mobile Home Standards   10
Supplementary Standards   11
Nonconforming Uses And Buildings   12
Administration   13
Board Of Appeals   14
Amendments   15
Interpretation, Enforcement   16
Medical Dispensers Of Cannabis   17
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ZONING PURPOSE, TITLE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Short Title
10-1-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
The official Comprehensive Plan of the City of Carthage, as presented to the
Corporate Authorities of the City by the City Plan Commission, shall be and it
is hereby adopted as the official Comprehensive Plan of the City. However, the
maps attached to said official Comprehensive Plan as plates 1 through 10,
inclusive, shall not be considered "official maps".
The City Clerk shall cause to be filed in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds
of Hancock County, Illinois a notice of the adoption of the official
Comprehensive Plan, and a copy of said official Comprehensive Plan, as adopted,
shall be on file for public inspection in the Office of the City Clerk during
the regular business hours of said Clerk. (Ord. 69-21, 3-2-1970)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations and districts, as herein in this title set forth, are
made in accordance with a Comprehensive Master Plan in order that adequate
light, air, convenience of access, and safety from fire, flood and other danger
may be secured; that congestion in the public streets may be lessened or
avoided; and that the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and
general public welfare may be promoted. They are made with reasonable regard to
existing conditions, the character of buildings erected in each district, the
most desirable use for which the land in each district may be adapted and the
conservation of property values on all land under the jurisdiction of this
title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-1-3: SHORT TITLE:
These regulations contained in this title shall be known and may be cited as
the CITY OF CARTHAGE, ILLINOIS ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Provisions
10-2-2: Rules For Construction Of Language
10-2-3: Definitions
10-2-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The rules and definitions contained in this chapter shall be observed and
applied to this title, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-2-2: RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
The following rules of construction shall apply to the text of this title:
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is
permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for", "designed for",
"intended for", "maintained for", and/or "occupied for". (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to
the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal
use or building. A mobile home shall not be considered permissible as an
accessory building.
An accessory use includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   (A)   A children's playhouse, garden house, and private greenhouse.
   (B)   A civil defense shelter serving not more than two (2) families.
   (C)   A garage, shed or building for domestic storage.
   (D)   Incinerators incidental to residential use.
   (E)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot with
any retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the
district regulations.
   (F)   A nonpaying guesthouse or rooms for guests within an "accessory
building", provided such facilities are used for the occasional housing of
guests of occupants of the principal building and not for permanent occupancy
by others as housekeeping units.
   (G)   Off street motor vehicle parking areas and loading and unloading
facilities.
   AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes. This includes
necessary buildings and structures which should be used for agriculture
including, but not limited to, farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry and
the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities. Buildings occupied as
residences by persons not engaged in agricultural operations shall not be
considered to be used for agriculture purposes.
   AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented for use in or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
   AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use for the
landing and taking off of aircraft; and any appurtenant areas which are used or
intended for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-
of-way, together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon.
   ALLEY: A narrow serviceway providing a secondary public means of access to
abutting properties, and not more than twenty feet (20') wide.
   ALTERATIONS: As applied to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities, or an
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or the
moving from one location or position to another, or by change in use from that
of one district classification to another.
   ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: See definition of structural alterations.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building, or portions thereof, designated or used for
the care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
   APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit,
and which contains complete kitchen, bath and toilet facilities, permanently
installed.
   APARTMENT HOUSE: A building arranged, intended or designed to be occupied by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
   AREA, BUILDING: The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
   AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: Any building, or portion thereof, where automobiles are
washed using a conveyor, blower, steam cleaning equipment or other mechanical
device of production line nature.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn
or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; and overall painting of vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and
motor service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under
the definition of automobile repair, major.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION OR FILLING STATION): Any building,
or portion thereof, or premises used for dispensing or offering for sale at
retail any automobile fuels or oils having pumps and storage tanks thereon, or
where battery, tire and other similar services are rendered, but only if
rendered wholly within lot lines. Automobile service stations do not include
open sales lots as defined herein.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area of land where two (2) or more motor
vehicles, not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open
and not being restored to operation; or any land, building or structure used
for the wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles, or parts thereof, not in
running condition.
   AWNING: A rooflike cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall
of a building and which may overhang a street.
   BASEMENT: A story partly underground but having at least one-half (1/2) of
its height above the average level of the adjoining ground. A basement shall be
counted as a story for the purposes of height measurement, if the vertical
distance between the ceiling and the average level of the adjoining ground is
more than five feet (5') or if used for business or dwelling purposes.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A building of residential character other than a
hotel, motel or boarding house, which is compatible with the neighborhood and
which:
   (A)   Provides temporary lodging for less than thirty (30) days;
   (B)   Provides temporary lodging in five (5) or fewer rooms for guests;
   (C)   Provides one or more meals daily for guests;
   (D)   Has a manager of the inn residing on the premises when guests are
present;
   (E)   Does not provide the accessory uses associated with a hotel;
   (F)   Provision of food and meals shall meet all applicable State and local
regulations and shall be served only to guests of the bed and breakfast inn;
   (G)   All applicable codes shall be met, including, but not limited to, Fire
Code, Building Code and this Code;
   (H)   Applicable off street parking requirements shall be met; and
   (I)   Complies with State Statutes.
   BILLBOARD OR SIGN BOARD: Any structure, or portion thereof, situated on
private premises, on which lettered, figured or pictorial matter is, or is
intended to be, displayed for advertising purposes, other than the name and
occupation of the user of, or the nature of, the business conducted on such
premises, or the products primarily sold or manufactured thereon. This
definition shall not be held to include a real estate sign advertising for sale
or rent the property upon which it stands.
   BLOCK: That property abutting on one side of a street between the two (2)
nearest intersecting streets or other natural barriers.
   BOARD OR BOARD OF APPEALS: The duly appointed Board of Appeals of the City,
as established in chapter 14 of this title.
   BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a lot after the minimum setback and
other requirements of this title are complied with.
   BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property. When separated by party walls, each portion of such building shall be
considered a separate structure.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, or portion of a principal
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the principal building and
customarily in connection with the principal use.
   BUILDING AREA: The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and its
accessory buildings, excluding open steps, terraces and cornices projecting not
more than thirty inches (30").
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or structures by a permanent roof
and by exterior walls having only windows and normal entrance or exit doors or
by party walls.
   BUILDING, DETACHED: A principal building surrounded by open space on the
same lot.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF: The line of that face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and covered porches,
whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does not include steps.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed existing finished grade at the front of the building to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs,
and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building arranged, designed, used or intended to be
used for residential occupancy by one or more families. Residential buildings
include, but are not limited to, the following types:
      Single-family detached dwellings;
      Two-family detached dwellings;
      Single-family semi-detached or attached dwellings; and
      Multiple-family dwellings.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line parallel to the street line at a distance
regulated by a front yard requirement as herein established.
   BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently located,
placed or affixed in the place where it is or where it is intended to be
placed.
   BULK: A composite characteristic of a given building as located upon a given
lot, not definable as a single quantity, but involving all of the following
characteristics:
   (A)   Size and height of building;
   (B)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or to other buildings;
   (C)   Gross floor area of the building in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   (D)   All open spaces allocated to the building; and
   (E)   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
   BUSINESS: An occupation, employment or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor, materials and equipment, or wherein merchandise is exhibited
or sold, or where services are offered.
   CARPORT: A building separated from adjacent open space or from other
buildings or structures by a permanent roof and not more than two (2) walls
including a common wall of an adjoining building or structure. The principal
use of such a building being off-street parking space for the passenger vehicle
of occupants of the dwelling on the premises. A carport shall not be construed
to mean a public or storage garage.
   CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below grade.
   CITY COUNCIL: See definition of Governing Body.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying dues which owns, hires or leases a building or portion thereof,
the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The duly appointed or employed officer of the
City, whose duty is to enforce the provisions of this title, as established in
chapter 16 of this title.
   COMMISSION: The duly appointed County or Regional or City Planning
Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of the City prepared by the Planning Commission and adopted by the
City Council, in accordance with the authority conferred by division 12,
Illinois Municipal Code, as amended.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: See definition of Governing Body.
   COUNCIL: See definition of Governing Body.
   COUNTY: The County of Hancock, State of Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD: The duly elected Governing Body of the County.
   COUNTY CLERK: The Clerk of Hancock County, Illinois.
   COUNTY ENGINEER: The Highway Superintendent of Hancock County, Illinois.
   COVERAGE: That percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building
area.
   CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building or
structure measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, it shall be deemed to be the established level of the center line
of the street surface in front of a building or structure, measured at the
center line of such front.
   DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound.
   DISTRICT: A section of the City for which uniform regulations governing the
use, height, area and intensity of use by buildings and land, and open spaces
about buildings, are herein established.
   DOG KENNEL: Any premises where three (3) or more dogs over four (4) months
of age are owned, boarded, bred and/or offered for sale.
   DWELLING: A building, but not a trailer (mobile home), designed or used
exclusively as the living quarters for one or more families.
   DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling entirely surrounded by open space on the same
lot.
   DWELLING, GROUP: A group of two (2) or more one-family or multiple dwellings
occupying a lot in one ownership and having any yard in common.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling or group of dwellings on one plot
containing separate living units for three (3) or more families, but which may
have joint services or facilities or both.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, ROW: A dwelling, the walls on two (2) sides of which are in common
with the walls of adjoining dwellings and are party or lot line walls.
   DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED: A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by a party
wall.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
(2) families living independently of each other, may also be referred to as a
duplex.
   DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping
facilities for one family.
   EASEMENT: Land which has been designated by lawful agreement between the
owner or owners of the land and a person or persons, for a specified use only
by such person or persons.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room together
with bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets and/or dining alcove directly off the
principal room, provided such dining alcove does not exceed ninety (90) square
feet in area.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance,
by public utilities or Municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground
or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, elevated and
underground water storage tanks, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith;
reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public
utilities or Municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health
or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY: One or more persons who live together in one dwelling unit and
maintain a common household. It may consist of a single person or of two (2) or
more persons, whether or not related by blood, marriage or adoption. It may
also include domestic servants and gratuitous guests.
   FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including solid entrance and exit gates, which
effectively conceals from viewers in or on adjoining properties and streets,
materials stored and operations conducted behind it.
   FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls
or from the center line of walls separating two (2) buildings. In particular
the "floor area" of a building or buildings should include:
   (A)   Basement space.
   (B)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor.
   (C)   Floor space for mechanical equipment, with structural headroom of
seven feet six inches (7'6") or more.
   (D)   Penthouses.
   (E)   Attic space (whether or not a floor has actually been laid) providing
structural headroom of seven feet six inches (7'6") or more.
   (F)   Interior balconies and mezzanines.
   (G)   Enclosed porches.
   (H)   Accessory uses, not including space for accessory off-street parking.
However, the "floor area" of a building shall not include:
   (A)   Cellar space, except that cellar space used for retailing should be
included for the purpose of calculating requirements for accessory off- street
parking spaces and accessory off-street loading berths.
   (B)   Elevator and stair bulkheads, accessory water tanks and cooling
towers.
   (C)   Floor space used for mechanical equipment, with structural headroom of
less than seven feet six inches (7'6").
   (D)   Attic space, whether or not a floor has actually been laid, providing
structural headroom of less than seven feet six inches (7'6").
   (E)   Uncovered steps.
   (F)   Terraces, breezeways and open spaces.
   (G)   Accessory off-street parking spaces.
   (H)   Accessory off-street loading berths up to two hundred percent (200%)
of the amount required by subsection
10-11-3(B) of this title.
   FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave measuring
the pitch of the resulting sound.
   FRONTAGE: All the property abutting on one side of a road, street or place
between two (2) intersecting roads or places (crossing or terminating) or if
the road, street or place is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting road, street or place and the dead end of the
road, street or place.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building, housing not to exceed four (4)
motor-driven vehicles, the property of and for the use of the occupants of the
lot on which the private garage is located.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, operated for gain and which is used for storage, repair, rental,
greasing, washing, servicing, adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other
motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE: A building or premises used for housing only of motor
vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements and not by transients; and where no
equipment or parts are sold and vehicles are not rebuilt, serviced, repaired,
hired or sold, except that fuel, grease or oil may be dispensed, or car washing
may be done within the building to vehicles stored therein.
   GOVERNING BODY: The duly elected Governing Board of the City having specific
jurisdiction; i.e., the City Council.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a building measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls, but excluding open terraces and carports and
garages.
   GUEST, PERMANENT: A person who occupies or has the right to occupy a lodging
or dwelling accommodation for a period of thirty (30) days or more.
   HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory use of a service character customarily
conducted within a dwelling by the residents thereof, which is clearly
secondary to the use of the dwelling for living purposes and does not change
the character thereof or have any exterior evidence of such secondary use other
than a small nameplate and in connection therewith there is not involved the
keeping of stock in trade. The office of a physician, surgeon, dentist,
attorney or other professional person, including an instructor in violin, piano
or other individual musical instrument limited to a single pupil at a time who
offers skilled services to clients, and is not professionally engaged in the
purchase or sale of economic goods, shall be deemed to be home occupations; and
the occupations of dressmaker, milliner or seamstress, beauty parlors, real
estate offices, insurance offices, barber shops, each with not more than one
paid assistant should be deemed to be home occupations. Dancing instruction,
band instrument instruction in groups, tourist homes, convalescent homes,
mortuary establishments, and stores, trades or businesses of any kind not
herein excepted should not be deemed to be home occupations.
   HOSPITAL: Unless otherwise specified, the term "hospital" shall be deemed to
include sanitarium, sanatorium, preventorium, clinic, rest home, nursing home,
convalescent home or any other place for the diagnosis, treatment or other care
of ailments, and shall be deemed to be limited to places for the diagnosis,
treatment or other care of human ailments.
   HOTEL: A building containing lodging room, a general kitchen and dining
room, a common entrance lobby, halls and stairway; and where each lodging room
does not have a doorway opening directly to the outdoors, except for
emergencies; and where more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging rooms are
for rent, with or without meals, to transient guests for a continuous period of
less than thirty (30) days.
   HOTEL, APARTMENT: A hotel in which at least fifty percent (50%) of the hotel
accommodations are occupied by permanent guests for thirty (30) days or more.
   JUNKYARD: An open area or fenced enclosure where used or secondhand
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or
handled including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber tires and bottles. A junkyard includes an automobile wrecking
yard, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL: See definition of dog kennel.
   LAND USE PLAN: The Comprehensive Long Range Plan for the desirable use of
land as officially adopted and as amended from time to time by the City
Council; the purpose of such plan being, among other things, to serve as a
guide to the zoning and progressive changes in the zoning of land to meet
changing needs, in the subdividing and use of undeveloped land, and in the
acquisition of land for such public purposes as roads, parks, schools and other
public buildings or public uses.
   LIQUOR STORE: A business establishment where alcoholic beverages are kept
and sold and where such alcoholic beverages are not imbibed on the premises.
   LOADING SPACE: A space within the main building or on the same lot therewith
providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks.
   LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room shall be counted as one lodging room.
   LOT: A parcel, tract or area of land accessible by means of a road, street
or place. It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed or plat
which is recorded in the Office of the Recorder, or it may include parts of or
a combination of such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot at the junction of and having frontage on two (2) or more
intersecting streets or roads.
   LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
   LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership, except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed the street or alley line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the road, street or place; and in the case of a corner lot, a line
separating the narrowest frontage of the lot from the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is,
or is approximately parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is
less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear,
the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within
the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, addition or survey, a
plat which is recorded or a parcel of land described by metes and bounds
consisting of five (5) acres or less, the plat or description of such parcel of
land having been recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds prior to the
effective date hereof.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT WIDTH: The dimension of a lot, measured between side lot lines on the
building line.
   LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land occupied, or to be occupied, by a permitted
use and meeting all the requirements of this chapter for a lot in the zoning
district in which said land parcel is located. A zoning lot may be comprised of
multiple tracts and/or parcels when the proposed developer provides a legal
instrument/agreement, satisfactory to the City Council, demonstrating unified
control over all internal tracts and/or parcels and identifies a responsible
party for the long term maintenance of any and all common ownership tract(s),
parcel(s) and/or facilities proposed within the zoning lot. (A zoning lot need
not necessarily coincide with a "lot of record" as defined herein except for
residential zoning lots.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory built, single-family structure which is
manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 United States Code
section 5403, Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards; and
displays a seal from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; and was constructed on or after June 15, 1976, and is to be used
as a place of human habitation; and is not constructed or equipped with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the
purpose of moving to a permanent site; and which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles.
      For the purpose of these regulations, a manufactured home shall be
considered the same as any site built, single-family detached dwelling. It
shall be located in accordance with the setback, lot size, minimum square
footage and hookup requirements for a site built, single- family detached
dwelling on the same lot. It shall be installed with a permanent continuous
perimeter foundation of material such as mortared concrete block, mortared
brick, or concrete that extends into the ground below the established frost
depth and to which the home is secured with foundation bolts at least one-half
inch (1/2") in diameter, spaced at intervals of no more than six feet (6') and
within one foot (1') of the corners, and embedded at least seven inches (7")
into the concrete foundations or fifteen inches (15") into block foundations.
      A manufactured home installed on private property that is not in a mobile
home park on or after the effective date hereof must be installed so that it
rests wholly on a permanent foundation. The permanent foundation must meet or
exceed the requirements for a permanent foundation as hereinabove defined.
   MARQUEE (CANOPY): A rooflike structure of permanent nature which projects
from the wall of a building and may overhang the public way.
   MODULAR HOME: Factory built structure built on a permanent chassis which is
manufactured to be used as a place of human habitation; is constructed to
comply with Illinois State Building Codes for modular factory built structures;
and displays the seal issued by the State. Once certified by the State, a
modular home shall be subject to the same standards as a site built home. It
shall be located in accordance with the setback, lot size, minimum square
footage and hookup requirements for a site built, single-family dwelling or a
multi-family dwelling on the same lot, whichever is applicable. It shall be
installed with a permanent foundation system as required by codes for a site
built, single-family or multi-family detached dwelling, whichever is
applicable.
   MOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms having adjoining individual
bathrooms, and where each lodging room has a doorway opening directly to the
outdoors, and more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging rooms are rented to
transient tourists for a continuous period of less than thirty (30) days.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or premises in which freight is received
or dispatched by motor vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled wheeled vehicle designed primarily for
transportation of persons or goods along public streets, alleys or other public
ways.
   NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the name
of an occupant thereof.
   NET SITE AREA: That area, in the case of a multiple-dwelling plan, not
occupied by rights-of-way.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A building or use of land that does not conform to the
regulations for the district in which it is situated.
   NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury or malaise to
living organisms, or is capable of causing effects considered detrimental by
authorities upon the health or the psychological, social or economic well being
of human beings.
   NURSING HOME: An establishment for the care of children or the aged or
infirm. Such a home does not contain equipment for medical and surgical care,
or for the treatment of: a) disease or injury; b) maternity cases; or c) mental
illnesses.
   OCTAVE BAND: A term denoting all the frequencies between any given frequency
and double that frequency.
   OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standard formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals. (American Standards for Sound Level Meters, ASA No. 224.3-1944.)
   OPEN AREA: The area of a lot, parcel or tract that is not covered by a
building or structure.
   OPEN SALES LOT: Any land used or occupied for the purpose of buying and
selling merchandise, passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats
and monuments, or for the storing of same prior to sale.
   OPEN SPACE: For the purpose of these zoning regulations, open space shall be
property under public or private ownership which is unoccupied or predominately
unoccupied by buildings or other impervious surfaces and which is used for
parks, recreation, agriculture, conservation, preservation of native habitat
and other natural resources, surface water impoundment, historic, or scenic
purposes. Unoccupied or predominately unoccupied by buildings or other
impervious surfaces shall mean that not more than five percent (5%) of the area
of any required open space shall be occupied by such surfaces. Any property
within twenty feet (20') of any structure (except any accessory structures
within the designated open space) or having a dimension of less than fifteen
feet (15'), regardless of ownership, shall not be considered open space in
meeting the requirements of these regulations.
   PARKING LOT: Any place, lot, parcel or yard used in whole or in part for the
storage or parking of two (2) or more vehicles where such usage is not
incidental to or in conjunction with a dwelling, or other usage permissible in
dwelling districts and located on the same tract.
   PARKING SPACE: An off street space available for the parking of one motor
vehicle, and having an area of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square
feet exclusive of passageways and driveways appurtenant thereto and giving
access thereto and having direct access to a street or alley.
   PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid at atmospheric
temperature and pressure.
   PARTY WALL: A wall which is common to but divides contiguous buildings; such
a wall contains no openings and extends from its footing below finished ground
grade to the height of the exterior surface of the roof.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
   PLACE: An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley, permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A unified development in single ownership or control
which includes two (2) or more principal buildings.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The duly appointed County, regional or City Planning
Commission.
   REFUSE: All waste products resulting from human habitation or the conduct of
business or industry, except sewage.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY: A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation,
but not facilities for the manufacture and/or sale of products, except as
incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
   RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines
"Information Circular 6888", and on which are illustrated graduated shades of
gray for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
   SCREENING: A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing from
viewers the area behind it.
   SERVICE STATION: A building, buildings, premises or portions thereof which
are used or arranged, designed or intended to be used for the retail sale of
gasoline or other motor vehicle, motorboat or aircraft fuels.
   SIGN: A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building or
structure or piece of land; and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization or business. Each display
surface of a sign shall be considered to be a separate sign.
However, as used herein, the word "sign" does not include any display of
official court or public office notices, nor the flag emblem or insignia of a
nation, political unit, school or religious group. A sign shall not include a
sign located completely within an enclosed building unless the context shall be
primarily visible from a street. Identification and addresses of establishments
on awnings and marquees shall not be considered to be signs.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD OR POSTER PANEL): A sign which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or
offered primarily other than upon the premises where such sign is located or to
which it is affixed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or
offered upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, FLASHING: Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
sign is in use. For the purpose of this title, any moving illuminated sign
shall be considered a flashing sign.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The entire area covered by the sign consisting
of the area comprised within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of its display area, and in no case passing through or between
any adjacent elements of it, but such perimeter shall not include the necessary
structural elements lying outside the display area of the sign.
   SMOKE UNITS, NUMBER OF: The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density
in Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of
this calculation, a Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every
minute during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the
time in minutes during which it is observed; the various products are then
added together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the
total period under observation.
   SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of intensity of sound.
   STABLE: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is used in whole or
in part for the shelter or care of horses, cattle or other similar animals,
either permanently or transiently.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area
is completed for principal or accessory use.
   STREET OR ROAD: A public or private way which affords the principal means of
access to abutting properties.
   STREET OR ROAD GRADE: The officially established grade of the street upon
which a lot fronts. If there is no officially established grade, the existing
grades of the street shall be taken as the street grade.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the
ground, to include solar panels. Solar panels shall require a building permit
and shall comply with set-back lines applicable to the zoning district.
   TAVERNS (COCKTAIL LOUNGE): An establishment where liquors are sold to be
consumed on the premises.
   TOXIC MATERIAL: A substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which, by reason of
an inherent deleterious property when emitted in any amount, is injurious to
living organisms of plants, animals and human beings.
   TRAILER (MOBILE HOME): Any vehicle or structure used for living, sleeping,
business or storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks,
skids, jacks, horses or skirtings and which is, has been or reasonably can be
equipped with wheels or other devices for transporting the structure from place
to place, whether by motive power or other means. The term "trailer" shall
include camp car and house car.
   TRAILER (MOBILE HOME) COURT: An area of land divided into two (2) or more
lots or parking berths platted and laid out to provide sites for trailers
permanently affixed to the land. A trailer shall be deemed to be permanently
affixed to the land when its wheels or other transporting device have been
removed therefrom or otherwise fixed so as to prevent ready removal or ready
mobility of such trailer.
   TRAILER (MOBILE HOME) PARK: An area of land containing two (2) or more
trailers or providing space where two (2) or more trailers are harbored or
parked or intended to be harbored or parked without being permanently affixed
to the land either free of charge or for remuneration purposes, and shall
include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure, used or intended
for use as a part of the equipment of such park.
   USE: The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The
term "permitted use" or its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any
nonconforming use.
   USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use, such as a private garage, which is
clearly and customarily incidental to the principal use of building or
premises, and which is located on the same lot as the principal building or
use, except for such accessory parking facilities as are specifically
authorized to be located elsewhere.
   USE, EXISTING: Any use of a parcel of land or a building which exists on the
effective date hereof.
   USE, NONCONFORMING: Any use of a building or premises which, on the
effective date hereof, does not, even though lawfully established, comply with
all of the applicable use regulations set forth herein for the zoning district
in which such building or premises are located.
   USE, PERMITTED: Any building, structure and use which, on the effective date
hereof, complies with the applicable regulations governing permitted uses of
the zoning district in which such building, structure or use is located.
   USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or building as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
   USE, SPECIAL: Any building, structure and use which, on the effective date
hereof, complies with the applicable regulations governing special uses of the
zoning district in which such building, structure or use is located.
   YARD: A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and similar
structures, the depth of which is the least distance between the front lot line
and the building line.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the principal building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by
accessory buildings which do not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the
required space, steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and similar
structures, the depth of which is the least distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of such principal building.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard between the principal building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard, or from the front lot line where no front yard
is required, to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard is measured
horizontally, at ninety degrees (90°) with the side lot line, from the nearest
part of the principal building.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP, COUNTY: A map, or maps, entitled Hancock County zoning
district map, for the corresponding area showing the boundaries of the County
zoning districts for the entire area of the County outside the limits of the
cities, villages and incorporated towns therein, and any amendments thereto.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP(S), MUNICIPAL: Zoning district maps for the City of
Carthage, within Hancock County, Illinois, which does not have a County zoning
ordinance in effect on the effective date hereof, and which zoning district map
shows the boundaries of the zoning districts for the area inside the limits of
the City, and the one and one-half (11/2) mile area within the County. (Ord.
69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord. 77-20, 3-28-1978; Ord. 2007-6, 12-11-2007, eff. 12-
11-2007; Ord. 2007-7, 2-12-2008; Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008; 2018 Code; Ord. 2020-
6, 6-9-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Establishment Of Use Districts
10-3-2: Zoning District Maps
10-3-3: Minimum Size Of Zoning Districts
10-3-4: Annexed Territory
10-3-5: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-3-6: Vacated Areas
10-3-7: Planned Development (PD) Districts
10-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF USE DISTRICTS:
The City and the area within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate
limits thereof shall be classified and divided into the following districts.
These districts shall be designated as follows:
Agricultural district:
 A-1 Agricultural District
Residential districts:
 R-1 One-Family Dwelling District
 R-2 One-Family Dwelling District
 R-3 One-Family Dwelling District
 R-4 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
 R-5 Mobile Home Dwelling District
Business districts:
 B-1 Neighborhood Business District
 B-2 Central Business District
 B-3 Highway Business District
 B-4 Commercial Highway Interchange District
 B-5 Planned Research Office District
Industrial districts:
 I-1 Light Industrial District
 I-2 General Industrial District
 I-3 Planned Industrial District
Special districts:
 S-1 Floodplain and Drainageway District
 S-2 Slope District
 S-3 Airport District
 S-4 Historic Buildings District
 P-1 Planned Unit Development Overlay District
 
(Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
10-3-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAPS:
The boundaries of the districts are shown on the maps for the corresponding
area which accompany the ordinance codified herein and which are each
designated as the "Carthage zoning district map". The district maps and all
notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of this
title and shall have the same force and effect as if the district maps and all
the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described in this title. The original of each district map shall
be properly attested to and filed along with the official signed and attested
copy of this title, in the Office of the City Clerk. No amendment to this title
which involves matter portrayed in the zoning district maps shall become
effective until after such change and entry has been made on said original and
official zoning district maps. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
10-3-3: MINIMUM SIZE OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
No zoning district established by any new zoning ordinance shall be changed or
new district established after this chapter is in effect unless the area being
considered for change is of the following minimum size:
A-1 Agricultural District                      No minimum
R-1 One-Family Dwelling District               15 acres
R-2 One-Family Dwelling District               10 acres
R-3 One-Family Dwelling District               1 acre
R-4 Multiple-Family Dwelling District          1 acre
R-5 Mobile Home Dwelling District              1 acre
B-1 Neighborhood Business District             5 acres
B-2 Central Business District                  5 acres
B-3 Highway Business District                  5 acres
B-4 Commercial Highway Interchange District    4 acres
B-5 Planned Research Office District           20 acres
I-1 Light Industrial District                  10 acres
I-2 General Industrial District                20 acres
I-3 Planned Industrial District                60 acres
S-1 Floodplain And Drainageway District        No minimum
S-2 Slope District                             No minimum
S-3 Airport District                           No minimum
S-4 Historic buildings District                No minimum
P-1 Planned Unit Development Overlay District  3 - 20 acres (varies)
 
(Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
10-3-4: ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All land annexed by the City, which does not have in effect a zoning ordinance
at the time of such annexation, shall be classified in the same district
classification as designated by Planning Commission until such classification
is changed by amendment to this title and its appropriate maps. (Ord. 69-23, 4-
6-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3-5: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway right-of-way lines,
such centerlines, street lines or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed
to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, township lines, section lines, half section lines,
quarter section lines and one-eighth (1/8) section lines, such lot lines shall
be construed to be said boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the centerlines or
right-of-way lines of highways such district boundaries shall be construed as
being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the
zoning district maps. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on the zoning district maps.
   (D)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main tracks of said
railroad line.
   (E)   Where the boundary of a district follows a stream, lake or other body
of water, the boundary shall be the limit of the jurisdiction of the City,
unless otherwise indicated. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-3-6: VACATED AREAS:
Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the districts adjoining each
side of such street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way or similar area
shall be extended automatically to the center of such vacation and all area
included in the vacation shall then and thenceforth be subject to all
appropriate regulations of the extended districts. In the event of a partial
vacation, the adjoining district or district nearest the portion vacated shall
be extended automatically to include all the vacated area. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-
1970)
10-3-7: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent And Purpose: The intent and purpose of Planned Development
Districts is to promote the economical and efficient use of land and
infrastructure; improve levels of amenities and open space; an appropriate and
harmonious balance of physical development, creative design and improved living
and working environs; expansion and diversification of economic activities; and
the protection of existing and future development of the City. Planned
Development (PD) Districts are suitable for development and redevelopment while
providing for the conservation of land, water, open space and other resources
of Carthage. Regulations for planned development are intended to accomplish the
purposes of zoning and other applicable City regulations to an equivalent or
higher degree than where such regulations are intended to control development
on a lot by lot basis rather than on a unified development approach.
This section provides supplemental districts applicable to planned developments
under unified control within the B-4 Commercial Highway Interchange, B-
5 Planned Research Office, I-3 Planned Industrial Development, and P-1 Planned
Unit Development Districts regulations. The intent of these planned development
regulations is to provide for the development of safe, efficient, convenient,
and harmonious groupings of land uses in areas adequately served, or in areas
which can be served, by necessary utilities and services; in locations that are
compatible with adjacent and surrounding uses in accordance with the goals,
objectives and policies of the Comprehensive Plan; and in compliance with the
standards set forth herein. In view of the substantial public advantage of
development within Planned Districts, it is the intent of these regulations to
promote and encourage development in this form where appropriate in location
and character.
   (B)   General Provisions: The general provisions contained herein shall
apply to the B-4 Commercial Highway Interchange, B-5 Planned Research Office,
I-3 Planned Industrial Development, and P-1 regulations applicable to planned
developments under unified control within the Planned Unit Development
Districts.
   (C)   Unified Control: All land included for purpose of development as a PD
shall be under the legal control of the applicant. Applicants requesting
approval of a PD shall present firm evidence of unified control of the entire
area within the proposed PD together with a certificate of apparent ownership
and encumbrance with the opinion of counsel representing the applicant
establishing that the applicant has the unrestricted right to impose all of the
covenants and conditions upon the land as are contemplated by the provisions of
these regulations.
The applicant shall state agreement to: 1) proceed with the proposed
development according to the provisions of these zoning regulations and such
conditions as may be attached to any rezoning to the applicable PD District; 2)
provide agreements, contracts, deed restrictions and sureties acceptable to an
attorney designated by the City Council for completion of the development
according to the approved plans; and maintenance of such areas, functions and
facilities as are not to be provided, operated, or maintained at public
expense; and 3) place covenants on the property to bind their successors in
title to any commitments made under items 1 and 2 of this subsection. All such
agreements and evidence of unified control shall be examined by an attorney
designated by the City Council and no PD shall be approved unless such
agreements and evidence of unified control meet the requirements of this title.
   (D)   Locational Standards For PDs: In reaching recommendations on decisions
as to approval of a PD, the Plan Commission and the City Council shall apply
the following locational standards, in addition to the standards of this title
applicable to the grant of rezoning generally:
      1.   Implementation Of Corridor Plan: The concept of planned development
is an important instrument in the implementation of the Illinois Route 336
corridor plan. PDs shall be located in conformity with the corridor plan and
particularly to the future Land Use Plan.
      2.   Relation To Major Transportation Facilities: PDs shall be so located
with respect to arterial streets, highways, collector streets, or other
transportation facilities as to provide direct access to such PDs without
creating or generating excessive traffic along minor streets in residential
areas or districts outside the PD.
      3.   Relation To Utilities, Public Facilities, And Services: PDs shall be
so located in relation to sanitary sewers, water lines, storm and surface
drainage systems, and other utility systems and installations that neither
extension nor enlargement of such systems will be required in manner, form,
character, locations, degree, scale or timing resulting in higher net public
cost or earlier incursion of public cost than would development in forms
generally permitted under current zoning and development policies for the area.
Such PDs shall be so located with respect to necessary public facilities as to
have access to such facilities in the same degree as would development
permitted under existing zoning, and shall be so located, designed and scaled
that access for public services is equivalent to, and net cost for such
services is not greater than, access and net costs for public services for
development permitted under existing zoning.
However, if the applicants: a) provide private facilities, utilities, or
services approved by appropriate public agencies as substituting on an
equivalent basis, and assure their satisfactory continuing operation
permanently, or until similar public utilities, facilities or services are
available and used, or b) make provision acceptable to the City for offsetting
any added net public cost or early commitment, the granting of the PD District
may be approved.
In computing the added net public costs, the difference in anticipated public
installation, operation, and maintenance costs and anticipated public revenue
shall be considered.
   (E)   Open Space Requirements: There shall be minimum open space
requirements based on the total gross acreage for each PD as set forth in table
1 of this subsection. Open space shall be determined based on the definition in
section
10-2-3 of this title.
TABLE 1
 
Planned District                     Minimum Percent Open Space Required
B-4 Commercial Highway Interchange   40
B-5 Planned Research Office          40
I-3 Planned Industrial Development   20
P-1 Planned Unit Development Overlay Varies
 
Buildings and uses lawfully existing as of May 27, 2008, may be modernized,
altered or repaired without providing the minimum open space requirement
specified herein.
Lands designated as open space will be restricted by appropriate legal
instrument satisfactory to an attorney designated by the City Council as open
space perpetually, or for a period of not less than ninety nine (99) years.
Such instrument shall be binding upon the developer, its successors, and
assigns, and shall constitute a covenant running with the land, and be in
recordable form.
   (F)   Internal PD Standards: The following standards apply within a PD:
      1.   Access: Every use permitted in a PD shall have access to a public
street either directly or via an approved private road, pedestrianway, court,
or other area dedicated to public or private use, or via common element
guaranteeing access. Permitted uses are not required to front on a dedicated
public road. Access standards shall be in compliance with ordinance 2006-10
which adopted the Illinois Route 336 corridor plan.
      2.   Underground Utilities: Within a PD, all utilities shall be in
compliance with the regulations in ordinance 2006-10 which adopted the Illinois
Route 336 corridor plan and with subsections
11-6-7(B) and (C) of this Code.
      3.   Physical Character Of The Site:
         (a)   The site shall be suitable for development in the manner
proposed without hazards to persons or property, on or off the tract, from
probability of flooding, erosion, or other dangers, annoyances, or
inconveniences. Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage, and topography
shall be appropriate to both kind and pattern of use intended.
         (b)   Lands to be included in a proposed development within the B-
5 District may be divided by streets, alleys, rights-of-way, or easements, but
shall be so located, dimensioned, and arranged as to permit unified planning
and development and to meet all requirements in connection therewith, as well
as to provide necessary protection against adverse relationships between uses
in the proposed development and uses in surrounding areas.
      4.   Compatibility: The proposed development shall be located and
designed so as to minimize the negative effects of external impacts resulting
from factors such as traffic, noise, or lights. Project control shall be
accomplished through such techniques as buffering, architectural design, height
limitations, and density or intensity limitations.
      5.   Transitions: The proposed development shall be responsive to the
character of the area. When located in an area where land use types and/or
intensities or densities vary, the proposed development shall be designed in
such a manner as to provide for gradual changes in intensity and/or density.
      6.   Outdoor Refuse Collection And Storage Areas: All outdoor refuse
collection and storage areas shall be limited to that area shown on an approved
site and development plan. Materials stored in said areas shall not protrude
above the screen. If vegetative material is used for an opaque screen, said
material shall form an opaque screen within two (2) years from the time of
first planting. No outdoor refuse collection or storage area shall be located
in a front yard, or within ten feet (10') of any side or rear property line or
within a required buffer area. All outdoor refuse collection shall be in
compliance with ordinance 2006-10, which adopted the Illinois Route 336
corridor plan and with the conditions of the most current disposal service
contract between Carthage and their contractor which establishes the hours of
operation for garbage, refuse and solid waste collection.
      7.   Sale Or Storage Of Fuel: All establishments involved with the sale
or storage of fuel shall be permitted only if the fuel is stored underground.
This requirement may be waived by the City Council when it can be demonstrated
that said requirement cannot be met when natural features, safety or technical
considerations necessitate aboveground storage, and that said storage area can
be effectively screened from view.
      8.   Streets, Drives, Parking, And Service Areas: Streets, drives,
parking, and service areas shall provide safe and convenient access to all
buildings and general facilities. Streets shall be laid out so as to discourage
outside traffic from traversing the development on minor streets. Streets shall
not occupy more land than is required to provide access as indicated, nor
create unnecessary fragmentation of the development into small blocks.
Commercial and office uses shall be grouped in relation to parking areas such
that after visitors arriving by automobile enter the walkway system,
establishments can be visited conveniently with a minimum of internal
automotive movements. Facilities and access routes for deliveries, servicing,
and maintenance shall be so located and arranged as to prevent interference
with pedestrian traffic within the district. Loading zones where customers pick
up goods shall be located and arranged as to prevent interference with
pedestrian movement.
      9.   Pedestrian Systems: Pedestrian systems shall be in compliance with
the regulations in ordinance 2006-10 which adopted the Illinois Route 336
corridor plan and section
11-6-4 of this Code.
      10.   Lighting: All outdoor lighting for parking lots and signs shall be
in compliance with ordinance 2006-10, which adopted the Illinois Route 336
corridor plan.
      11.   Signage:
         (a)   A uniform sign format shall be required in all PD districts. All
signs within a PD District shall be consistent in terms of design, height,
color and general materials. Prior to the issuance of the first sign permit in
a PD District, the developer or owner shall submit an overall signage plan for
the district which provides information on how the size, type and materials of
signs erected will be controlled.
         (b)   For all projects within the boundaries of the Illinois Route 336
corridor plan, all signage shall be in compliance with ordinance 2006-10, which
adopted the corridor plan.
      12.   Off Street Loading And Parking Requirements: Off street loading
areas and facilities shall be screened from adjacent streets to alleviate the
unsightly appearance of loading facilities. All loading areas and facilities
shall be screened with an opaque material which may include shrubs, walls,
fences, berms, and which are a minimum of eight feet (8') in height. If
vegetative material is used, said material shall form an opaque screen within
two (2) years of the time of first planting. No off street loading area shall
be located in a required front yard, or within ten feet (10') of a side or rear
property line or within a required buffer area. Off street parking and loading
shall be as required in section
10-11-3 of this title. No space designated as a required off street parking
space for the general public shall be used as an off street loading space or
maneuvering room for vehicles being loaded or unloaded.
      13.   Perimeter Buffers:
         (a)   Applicability: Development shall provide a perimeter buffer to
separate a new land use from adjacent uses in accordance with table 3, "Buffer
Requirements For Planned Districts", of this section. The buffer shall have the
width, amount of vegetation, and other features to properly mitigate the
negative effects of contiguous incompatible uses.
         (b)   Types Of Buffers: Table 2, "Buffer Classifications", of this
section, describes the four (4) different types of buffers and their optional
configurations. Any one of the two (2) optional configurations may be utilized
to comply with the standards of this section.
TABLE 2
BUFFER CLASSIFICATIONS
 
Buffer Type And           Screening Requirement Within Perimeter Buffer Strip
Configuration             Option 1:                  Option 2:
                          Minimum Width 25 Feet      Minimum Width 15 Feet
A. Basic: This buffer
area functions as basic
edge demarcating          2 canopy trees, plus 1     1 canopy tree, plus 2
individual properties     understory tree per 100    understory trees, plus 10
with a slight visual      linear feet.               shrubs per 100 linear
obstruction from the                                 feet.
ground to a height of 10
feet.
B. Aesthetic: This buffer
area functions as an
intermittent visual
obstruction from the                                 1 canopy tree, plus 3
ground to a height of at  2 canopy trees, plus 2     understory trees, plus 10
least 20 feet, and        understory trees per 100   shrubs per 100 linear
creates the impression of linear feet.               feet.
spatial separation
without eliminating
visual contact between
users.
C. Semiopaque: This                                  One 4-foot high berm, plus
perimeter buffer          2 canopy trees, plus 3     2 canopy trees, plus 4
functions as a semiopaque understory trees, plus 20  understory trees, plus 10
screen from the ground to shrubs per 100 linear      shrubs per 100 linear
at least a height of 6    feet.                      feet.
feet.
D. Opaque: This perimeter
buffer functions as an
opaque screen from the    One 6-foot high solid wall One 3-foot high berm, plus
ground to a height of at  or opaque fence, plus 2    one 3-foot high continuous
least 6 feet. This type   understory trees, plus 5   evergreen hedge, plus 3
of buffer prevents visual shrubs per 100 linear      understory trees per 100
contact between uses and  feet.                      linear feet.
creates a strong
impression of total
separation.
 
Notes:
      1.   Any required buffer strip can be reduced to 5 feet in width with the
provision of a solid wall or opaque fence 6 feet in height, along with 10
shrubs per every 100 linear feet.
      2.   These examples of landscape buffers are intended to illustrate
minimum requirements only; other design configurations are allowed and
encouraged. Strategic grouping of shrubs and trees is encouraged.
      3.   Evergreen trees may be substituted for understory trees. Evergreen
trees shall have a height of not less than 4 feet at the time of planting.
      4.   The use of masonry pillars with fencing and offsets in walls are
encouraged in buffer designs.
      5.   A 6 foot high solid wall or opaque fence may be substituted for the
berm and hedge in the 15 foot wide option.
      6.   Figure 1 of this subsection illustrates the buffer classifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/54fdfb36f80ebdcab36fcca94c52566541fe92be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1563.png]
 
TABLE 3
BUFFER REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANNED DISTRICTS
 
Legend:
 A = Type A buffer N  = No buffer required
 B = Type B buffer      District allows various uses; refer to typical buffer
 C = Type C buffer XX = for that zoning district or buffers may be determined
 D = Type D buffer      on a case by case basis by the Planning Commission.
Proposed Land Use Adjacent Use
                  B-4 B-5 I-3 P-1
                                                                      Adjacent
Proposed Land Use                                                     Use
                                                                      B- B- I- P-
                                                                      4  5  3  1
Residential:                                                                 
   Multiple-family dwelling                                        C  C  D  XX
   Single-family dwelling                                          D  D  D  XX
Public and institutional:                                                    
   Community services, daycare and educational facilities          A  A  B  XX
   Parks and open areas                                            N  N  B  XX
   All other public and institutional uses                         A  A  B  XX
Commercial:                                                                  
   Agriculture, animal services                                    N  N  N  N
   Eating establishments, offices, entertainment, retail sales and A  A  B  XX
services
   All other commercial uses                                       A  A  B  XX
Industrial:                                                                  
   Industrial uses                                                 B  C  A  XX
 
Note: Landscape requirements for parking lots and street frontages are
contained in ordinance 2006-10 which adopted the Illinois Route 336 corridor
plan.
         (c)   Buffer Requirements For Planning Districts: Table 3, "Buffer
Requirements For Planned Districts", of this section, specifies the type of
landscaped perimeter buffer that must be installed adjacent to an existing use.
The proposed uses are designated with their associated use class and cross
referenced with the numbered columns along the horizontal row under the
"adjacent use" heading. The buffer type is indicated by letter and the total
buffer width in feet is indicated by number.
         (d)   Responsibility For Buffer Installation:
            (1)   Vacant Parcels: Where a developing parcel is adjacent to a
vacant parcel, the developing parcel shall provide a minimum of one-half (1/2)
of the perimeter buffer required adjacent to the vacant land. Determination of
the required perimeter buffer width and type shall be based upon the highest
use classification available for the vacant land based upon its current zone
district classification.
            (2)   Existing Land Uses: Where a developing parcel is adjacent to
an existing use, the developing parcel shall provide the full perimeter buffer
required adjacent to the existing use in accordance with table 3, "Buffer
Requirements For Planned Districts", of this section, unless a portion or all
of a perimeter buffer that complies with the standards of this section already
exists between the lots. Where all or part of a perimeter buffer exists, but
the buffer does not fully comply with the standards of this section, the
developing parcel shall be responsible for providing all the additional
planting material necessary to meet the standards of this section.
         (e)   Location Of Buffers:
            (1)   General: Perimeter buffers required by this section shall be
located along the outer perimeter of the parcel and shall extend to the parcel
boundary line or right-of-way line; however, the perimeter buffer may be
located along shared access easements between parcels in nonresidential
developments.
            (2)   Shopping Centers: Within shopping centers or other
nonresidential centers/developments, the perimeter buffer area between
outparcels in the same development may be provided, totally or in part,
elsewhere on the site. For example, a twenty foot (20') buffer between uses may
be shifted elsewhere on the site (preferably within the site's interior) as
long as the total area is provided for. The intent of this subsection is to
provide for more flexibility in site design and to potentially save large
natural areas that may exist elsewhere on the site.
            (3)   Development Within Required Buffers:
               A.   The required buffer shall not contain any development,
impervious surfaces, or site features that do not function to meet the
standards of this section or that require removal of existing vegetation,
unless otherwise permitted in this section.
               B.   Sidewalks and trails may be placed in perimeter buffers if
damage to existing vegetation is minimized to the maximum extent practicable.
               C.   Overhead and underground utilities, if allowed by the City,
are permitted in buffers, but shall minimize the impact to vegetation to the
maximum extent practicable. In cases where required landscaping material is
damaged or removed due to utility activity within a required buffer, the
landowner shall be responsible for replanting all damaged or removed vegetation
necessary to ensure the buffer meets the standards in this section.
         (f)   Screening Methods: The following items are permitted for use as
screening materials. Alternative screening materials that are not listed may be
used if it is determined they are comparable to these screening materials.
            (1)   Vegetative Material: Planting materials shall meet the
minimum size standards listed in ordinance 2006-10 which adopted the Illinois
Route 336 corridor plan.
            (2)   Berms: An earthen berm measuring at least four feet (4') in
height. Berms shall be covered with grass or mulch and shall be planted with
other landscaping materials consistent with the requirements for a type D
buffer (see table 2, "Buffer Classifications", of this section).
            (3)   Fencing: An opaque wooden fence, or plastic or vinyl designed
fence that is configured to appear as an opaque wooden fence, measuring at
least six feet (6') in height, but not exceeding eight feet (8') in height, can
be used to meet the opaque screen requirements. When wood is utilized, only
treated wood or rot resistant wood, such as cypress or redwood, shall be used.
Chainlink, barbed wire, stock wire, hog wire, chicken wire, and similar type
fences are not permitted.
            (4)   Masonry Walls: Masonry walls measuring at least six feet (6')
in height but not exceeding eight feet (8') in height shall be constructed of
brick, textured concrete masonry units, or stuccoed block. Foam wall fences
with a stucco finish are also allowed.
         (g)   Alternative Landscape Plan: An alternative landscape plan may be
used where unreasonable or impractical situations would result from application
of the buffer requirements. Alternative plans, materials, or methods may be
justified due to natural conditions, such as streams, natural rock formations,
topography, and physical conditions related to the site. Also, the lot
configuration and utility easements may justify an alternative landscape plan.
            (1)   Allowable Deviations: The Plan Commission shall approve an
alternative landscape plan if it meets the purpose and intent of the
landscaping standards in this section. Allowable deviations from the standards
of this section include, but are not limited to, the following:
               A.   Reduced Planting Rates Due To Public Facilities: An
adjustment to planting locations or reduction in the type or total number of
trees when underground connections to public facilities or public utilities, or
public easements or right-of-way, are located upon or in close proximity to the
parcel or whenever a fewer number or smaller size of trees would be more
desirable in terms of good landscape planning practice.
               B.   Reduction In Standards Due To Nature Of Parcel: A reduction
in the count, spacing, or species diversity standards is more desirable in
terms of good landscape planning practice considering the nature of the parcel
and adjacent parcels.
      14.   Streetscape And Parking Lot Landscaping:
         (a)   Applicability:
            (1)   General Streetscape Landscaping Requirements: Development on
lots that abut streets shall provide streetscape landscaping between the edge
of the street right-of-way and the uses on the lot, in accordance with
ordinance 2006-10 which adopted the Illinois Route 336 corridor plan.
            (2)   Off Street Parking: Projects with parking lots larger than
fifty (50) parking spaces shall provide landscaping in accordance with
ordinance 2006-10 which adopted the Illinois Route 336 corridor plan.
      15.   Noise: All development in Planned Development Districts shall
comply with the regulations which mandate noise control in the City of
Carthage, as contained in the most current version of the City's noise
ordinance.
   (G)   Procedures For PD:
      1.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to initiating a petition for the PD
District, a preapplication conference with the Code Enforcement Officer is
required. The purpose of such preapplication conference shall be to assist in
bringing the overall petition, as nearly as possible, into conformity with
these or other regulations applying generally to the property involved and/or
to define specifically those variations from application of general regulations
which appear justified in view of equivalent services of the public purposes of
such regulations.
      2.   Prehearing Conference With Applicants: The applicant, the Code
Enforcement Officer, and representatives of other City departments, as may be
pertinent, shall meet with the applicant or his agent to review the original
application, including all plans, maps, and documents submitted by the
applicant. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
At such time as further conferences appear unnecessary, or at any time on the
written request of the applicant, public notices shall be given in accordance
with the applicable sections of this title for rezonings, and the hearing
before the Plan Commission held, but the notice and hearing shall be on the
petition as it may have been amended following the prehearing conferences
rather than as originally submitted. Public notice of the hearing shall be
given consistent with the requirements of subsection (K)3(g) of this section.
If the property is properly zoned, review of the petition and development
concept plan may be done at a regular meeting. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008; amd.
Ord. 2011-13, 1-10-2012)
      3.   Development Concept Plan: A development concept plan is required for
determination as to the internal relationships between or among uses and
activities proposed and their supporting systems and facilities, and relation
to surrounding uses, activities, systems and facilities. The development
concept plan shall accompany the application and shall contain at a minimum the
following information:
         (a)   The title of the project and the names of the professional
project planner(s), architect(s), engineer(s) and developer(s).
         (b)   Scale, date, north arrow, and general location map.
         (c)   Legal description and recent survey of the property to be
rezoned or redeveloped.
         (d)   A vicinity map showing the property involved, all existing
streets, buildings, watercourses, easements, section lines, and other existing
significant physical features in and adjoining the property.
         (e)   Location, height, floor area and use of existing structures, if
any, which will remain on the site after rezoning and incorporated within the
PD.
         (f)   Master plan identifying the location and acreage of each
component of the project, including the location and placement of proposed land
uses by type, density, a layout of lots, open space designations, location of
landscaped buffer areas required by these zoning regulations, recreational
facilities, commercial uses, other permitted uses, off street parking and
loading locations, and refuse collection locations.
         (g)   Master plan showing access and traffic flow both external and
internal to the development, and how pedestrian and other nonmotorized travel
will be safely integrated.
         (h)   Tabulations of acreage devoted to each land use and the total
gross acreage of the project. Include acreage totals for each use, open space
designations, recreational facilities, streets, parks, schools and other
permitted uses. For P-1 Districts, include the total number and type of
residential units, the residential density for each type of unit and the
overall residential density of the project. Gross residential density shall be
computed by deducting gross acreage used for nonresidential purposes other than
open space and recreation uses. For nonresidential PDs, include the total
acreage and square footage for each type of use, open space designations, and
streets.
         (i)   A discussion of the impact of the proposed development on the
levels of service for roads, potable water, sanitary sewer, solid waste, and
drainage.
         (j)   A master drainage plan with sufficient detail to depict the
limits of the 100-year floodplain where applicable.
         (k)   A phasing plan for the proposed development.
         (l)   In addition, the Plan Commission may require additional material
such as plans, maps, studies, and reports which may be needed in order to make
the necessary findings and determinations that the project is in compliance
with the applicable standards and guidelines of the comprehensive plan and this
title.
   (H)   Plan Commission Findings And Recommendation: After the public hearing
or regular meeting, the Plan Commission may recommend to the City Council that
the request for a PD District be granted, be granted with stipulations and
conditions, or disapproved. In making its recommendation, the Plan Commission
shall find that the plans, maps and documents submitted by the applicant and
presented at the public hearing or regular meeting do or do not establish that
the applicant has met the requirements applicable to the grant of rezoning
generally, and in addition:
      1.   The requirements of unified control and agreement set out in this
section;
      2.   Locational standards set out in this section;
      3.   The internal PD standards set out in this section;
      4.   The tract for the proposed PD is suitable in terms of its
relationship to the Illinois Route 336 corridor plan or comprehensive plan and
that the area surrounding the proposed PD can continue to be developed in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the PD proposed;
      5.   That the desirable modifications of general zoning or PD
regulations, as applied to the particular case, justify such modification of
regulations and meet to at least an equivalent degree the regulations modified,
based on the design and amenities incorporated in the development concept plan;
      6.   That open space in accordance with these zoning regulations is
provided for the proposed PD, and desirable natural features indigenous to the
site are preserved in the development plan presented.
   (I)   Binding Nature Of Approval For PD: All terms, conditions, safeguards,
and stipulations made at the time of approval for PD shall be binding upon the
applicant or any successors in interest. Deviations from approved plans or
failure to comply with any requirement, condition, or safeguard shall
constitute a violation of this title.
   (J)   Development Of Lands Under The PD Provisions: Plans for development of
land approved for PD shall be processed in accordance with procedures
established in this Code. The same information shall be furnished for the site
and development plan approval. The site and development plan submitted shall be
in substantial compliance with the development concept plan submitted as a part
of the application for approval of a particular PD District. In addition to the
requirements of this Code determined to be applicable, the following
information shall be provided:
      1.   Building locations of all structures proposed which are a part of
the project shall be depicted on the site and development plan and the
supplementary materials required.
      2.   Master landscape plan depicting existing and proposed vegetation and
locations thereof on the site, and provisions for maintenance of same.
      3.   Fence, wall, and planting screen locations, heights, and materials,
and provisions for maintenance of same.
      4.   Tabulations analyzing the number of total gross acres in the project
and the percentages thereof proposed to be devoted to specific types of
residential and nonresidential uses, off street parking and off street loading,
streets, open spaces, and recreation areas. The total number of dwelling units
in the project by type and overall density and the total square footage of
nonresidential land uses, by type, shall be included.
      5.   Once site and development plan approval has been obtained, the
applicant shall proceed in accordance with the requirements of the Carthage
subdivision ordinance determined to be applicable. In addition to the plat
certificates specified in the Carthage subdivision ordinance, and prior to
recording a final plat, the developer shall file, as specified at the time of
grant of rezoning, a legally constituted maintenance association agreement for
improving, perpetually operating, and maintaining the common facilities,
including streets, drives, parking areas, open space and recreation facilities,
landscaped buffer areas, and stormwater management facilities; or he shall file
such documents as are necessary to show how the said common areas are to be
improved, operated, or maintained. Such documents shall be subject to review by
an attorney designated by the City Council and approval by the City Council.
   (K)   Changes In Plans:
      1.   Changes in plans which are in substantial compliance with the
approved development concept plan may be permitted by the Code Enforcement
Officer with input from appropriate members of the Plan Commission as required,
on application by the applicant or successors, but only upon making a finding
that such changes are:
         (a)   In accord with all applicable regulations currently in effect;
         (b)   In accord with all the conditions and requirements specified in
the ordinance approving the PD District.
      2.   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to approve changes in the
approved development concept plan of a PD District, but shall not have the
power to approve changes that constitute a substantial modification. A
substantial modification shall be processed by the Code Enforcement Officer and
shall require public hearings before the Plan Commission and the City Council,
in accordance with these zoning regulations.
In reaching a decision as to whether or not the changes are to be considered a
substantial modification, the Code Enforcement Officer shall, after reviewing
the record of the project, determine if any of the following changes are
proposed. If such changes are proposed, the request shall be considered a
substantial modification.
         (a)   Alterations to the land uses approved in the development concept
plan which lie within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary of the PD
District, or within one hundred feet (100') of any part of the Planned District
which has been constructed or sold to any owner or owners different from the
applicant requesting the change. A change from multi-family to single- family
use in a P-1 District shall not be deemed a substantial modification. A change
from one permitted principal use to another permitted principal use in the B-4,
B-5 or I-3 Districts, shall not be deemed to be a substantial modification. An
application for special exception in the B-4, B-5 or I-3 Districts shall not be
deemed to be a substantial modification.
         (b)   A reduction in the amount of open space, recreation areas,
preservation areas or buffer areas of more than five percent (5%), or any
change in the location of open space or recreational uses within one hundred
feet (100') of the boundary of the PD District, or within one hundred feet
(100') of any part of a nonresidential planned district which has been
constructed or sold to any owner or owners different from the applicant
requesting the change, or within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary of any
portion of a residential planned district which has received final plat
approval. The Code Enforcement Officer may request comments from other City
departments and other agencies, as appropriate, in conjunction with this
criteria.
         (c)   In P-1 Districts, a change from single-family residential use to
multi-family residential use; from residential use to internal commercial use;
or a change in the location of an internal commercial component.
         (d)   In B-4, B-5 or I-3 Districts, an increase in floor area of five
percent (5%) or more.
         (e)   Any change in a condition specifically required by the City
Council as part of the approval of the PD District.
      3.   All requests for review of changes to the development concept plan
shall include sufficient information to enable the Code Enforcement Officer to
make a determination whether or not one or more of the criteria listed in
subsections (K)2(a) through (K)2(e) of this section are met. An application for
a change to a PD shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   A statement by the applicant which specifies the exact nature of
the change(s) proposed to the development concept plan and which addresses the
proposed change(s) in relation to each of the criteria contained in subsections
(K)2(a) through (K)2(e) of this section.
         (b)   A graphic or map indicating the boundaries of the entire PD
District; the relationship of the portion of the PD District to be changed to
the remainder of the PD District, if the revision does not include the entire
PD District, and delineating those areas of the PD District which are currently
developed. Areas within the PD District which are under separate ownership than
the applicant requesting the change shall also be delineated.
         (c)   A revised development concept plan showing the proposed change
(s).
         (d)   If the proposed change(s) does not meet the criteria listed in
subsections (K)2(a) through (K)2(e) of this section, it shall not be deemed to
be a substantial modification. However, the applicant shall submit three (3)
copies of the revised development concept plan for distribution to the City.
(Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
         (e)   All proposed amendments or changes to a planned unit development
or master plan which changes are not in substantial compliance with the
approved development concept plan and which are accordingly not approved by the
Code Enforcement Officer pursuant to subsection (K)1 of this section must be
presented to the Planning Commission by petition and require a public hearing
before the Planning Commission which shall be noticed and conducted in
conformity with the ordinances of the City of Carthage and the Statutes of the
State of Illinois.
         (f)   Whenever such a petition is filed to change or amend any
existing planned unit development or master plan, the petition shall be
referred by the Mayor to the Planning Commission of the City of Carthage for a
hearing and recommendation. The petition shall include the submittals and
attachments required by this subsection (K) and subsection (L) of this section.
The Planning Commission may make its recommendation conditional on the
petitioner meeting any reasonable requirements the Planning Commission may
impose for approval of the amendment or change.
         (g)   The City Clerk shall publish notice of the date, time and place
of the hearing before the Planning Commission together with a description of
the proposed change or amendment which publication shall be not less than
fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing. The Planning
Commission shall conduct a hearing on the request and submit to the City
Council a recommendation that the proposed amendment or change be either
approved or disapproved.
         (h)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission,
the City Council shall consider the petition for proposed change or amendment
to the planned unit development or master plan and either approve or disapprove
the proposed change. The City Council may make its approval conditional on the
petitioner meeting any reasonable requirements the City Council may impose for
approval of the amendment or change. (Ord. 2011-13, 1-10-2012)
   (L)   Administration: All development concept plans and final site and
development plans shall be submitted to the Code Enforcement Officer who shall
transmit all applications and their accompanying plans to the Plan Commission
for their review. The purpose of these plans is to show all information needed
to enable the Code Enforcement Officer, Plan Commission, and the City Council
to determine if the proposed development meets the requirements of this
section. The submittal procedure is as follows: (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008; amd.
2018 Code)
      1.   Nine (9) copies of the development concept plan and final site and
development plan with all applicable information shown on the plan shall be
submitted one week prior to the Plan Commission meeting.
      2.   If revisions are required, three (3) copies of the plan shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for final review.
      3.   Upon approval of the site plan, one approved plan will be kept on
file in City Hall, one plan will be on file by the Code Enforcement Officer for
field review and the final copy of the approval plan will be returned to the
developer/owner for use by the contractor in the construction process.
   (M)   Deviations From Approved Plans: Deviations from approved plans or
failure to comply with any requirement, condition, or safeguard imposed by the
City Council during the approval or platting procedure shall constitute a
violation of this title.
   (N)   Building Permits: No building permit, certificate of occupancy or
zoning compliance shall be issued in or for development in a PD District except
in conformity with all provisions of the request for PD and plans submitted
under this section. No occupancy permit or certificate of zoning compliance
shall be issued however, until all improvements have been completed, and the
final plat of record or site and development plan, as applicable, for the
project or approved phase or element of the project has been recorded or
approved. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
CHAPTER 4
APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: General Regulations
10-4-2: Trailer Parks
10-4-3: Accessory Buildings And Uses
10-4-4: Special Uses
10-4-5: Permitted Obstructions; Yards
10-4-6: Yards, General
10-4-7: Floodplain Area
10-4-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the entire City and that
area within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits.
   (B)   Nothing contained in these regulations shall impose restrictions with
respect to land used or to be used for agricultural purposes or with respect to
the erection, maintenance, repair, alteration, remodeling or extension of
buildings or structures used or to be used for agricultural purposes, shall
conform to building or setback lines, and a permit with respect to land used
for agricultural purposes and buildings thereon shall be required, but without
charge therefor; nor shall these regulations be deemed to specify or regulate
the type or location of any poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults,
laterals or any other similar distributing equipment of a public utility as
defined in the Act entitled "Public Utilities Act" of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided:
      1.   No building or land shall, after the effective date hereof, be used
or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered
unless in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located.
      2.   No building shall, after the effective date hereof, be erected or
altered:
         (a)   To exceed the height,
         (b)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families,
         (c)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area, or
         (d)   To have a narrower or smaller rear yard, front yard, side yard,
inner or outer court than is specified herein for the district in which such
building is located.
      3.   No part of a yard or other open space about any building required
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of the standards in this title
shall be included as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required
for another building.
      4.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot, except as otherwise provided in this title.
      5.   No parcel of land described by metes and bounds or any lot shall
hereafter be created which does not conform and meet the requirements of any
new zoning ordinance. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-4-2: TRAILER PARKS:
The following regulations shall apply to trailers:
   (A)   A trailer shall not be considered to be permissible as an accessory
building.
   (B)   No person shall park, store or occupy a trailer for living purposes
except:
      1.   In accordance with section
10-6-5, "R-5 Mobile Home Dwelling District", of this title.
      2.   In an approved trailer park in accordance with the City trailer
ordinance (chapter 10 of this title), provided that public or community sewer
and water facilities are available for each trailer, and that each existing
trailer lot contains an area as provided in this Code.
      3.   For a period not in excess of one year, on property for which a
building permit for the construction of a permanent dwelling has been issued,
which construction is actively carried forward to completion within the
aforesaid one year.
      4.   A trailer home may be used as a temporary office or shelter
incidental to construction or development of the premises on which the trailer
is located only during the time construction or development is actively
underway. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-4-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
   (A)   Accessory uses shall be compatible with the principal use and shall
not be established prior to the establishment of the principal use, and shall
not include the keeping or propagation of poultry or livestock, whether or not
for profit. Private swimming pools shall be permitted accessory use in any
residence district, provided they conform with regulations of this title and
other applicable provisions of this Code.
   (B)   No accessory building or structure, unless it is structurally a part
of the principal building, which conforms with the yard requirements of the
district in which it is located, shall be erected or altered at, nor moved to a
location:
      1.   Within ten feet (10'), measured from vertical wall to vertical wall
of the nearest wall of a principal building, except where an accessory building
or structure and a principal building are of fire-resistive type construction,
as approved by the building inspector, an accessory building or structure may
be located nearer than ten feet (10');
      2.   Within a required front yard, side yard or side yard adjoining a
street;
      3.   Within that part of a rear yard which is three feet (3') from the
rear and three feet (3') from the side lot lines that do not adjoin a street or
alley;
      4.   Within that part of a rear yard of through lots which is thirty feet
(30') from the rear lot line, and the distance of the required side yards from
the side lot lines; and
      5.   Within an easement.
   (C)   No accessory building shall have a building height of more than one
story or seventeen feet (17'), whichever is the lesser, unless otherwise
permitted as accessory to business or manufacturing uses, or to authorized
special uses. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-4-4: SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   To provide for the location of certain uses hereinafter specified
which are deemed desirable for the public welfare within a given district or
districts, but which might have an adverse effect upon nearby properties or
upon the character and future development of the district in which they are
located, a classification of special uses is hereby established.
   (B)   Where a use exists on the effective date hereof, and it is classified
as a special use in the district in which it is located by this title, it shall
be considered to be a lawful special use. Additions or alterations to existing
buildings or land improvements for expansion of lawful special uses may be made
within the area of the lot included in the ownership existing at the effective
date hereof; and they shall be subject to yard, floor area ratio, and building
height requirements set forth in this title for permitted uses in the districts
in which they are located. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-4-5: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS; YARDS:
For the purpose of this title, the following shall not be considered as
obstructions when located in the yards indicated:
   (A)   In Any Yards: Chimneys, overhanging roof eaves, open terraces,
marquees, and awnings adjoining the principal building, if they do not exceed
ten percent (10%) of the depth of the yard, and ornamental light standards and
flagpoles. On corner lots, obstructions not higher than thirty six inches (36")
above curb level, if located in that portion of a required front or side yard
situated within twenty feet (20') of the lot corner formed by the intersection
of any two (2) street lines.
   (B)   In Side Yards: Open accessory off-street parking spaces, except in a
side yard abutting a street.
   (C)   In Rear Yards: Private garages attached or structurally a part of the
principal building, private garages, detached; open accessory off-street
parking spaces; accessory sheds, or other similar accessory buildings; private
swimming pools in accordance with regulations of this title and other
applicable regulations of the City; recreational and laundry-drying equipment;
arbors and trellises; or fences not to exceed six feet (6') in height may be
located along property lines. Accessory buildings or structures may occupy not
more than thirty percent (30%) of a rear yard. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-4-6: YARDS, GENERAL:
   (A)   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
   (B)   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open spaces
become less than required by this title.
   (C)   On streets where a front yard setback has been maintained for
buildings existing on lots or tracts having a frontage of fifty percent (50%)
or more of the total frontage on one side of that portion of any street lying
between two (2) intersecting streets, there shall be maintained a front yard
setback of not less than the average setback of the aforementioned existing
buildings or thirty feet (30'), whichever is smaller.
   (D)   On a vacant through or corner lot, either of the lot lines abutting a
street right-of-way line may be established as its front lot line, except that
where two (2) or more through lots are contiguous and a front lot line has been
duly established, the same street lot line shall thereafter be deemed to be the
front lot line of all such contiguous lots. On a through lot, a front yard
shall be provided along any lot line abutting a street. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-4-7: FLOODPLAIN AREA:
No building or structure shall be erected with the elevation of a habitable
floor, including a basement floor, lower than four feet (4') above the flood
crest elevation, as established by FEMA. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: A-1 Agricultural District
10-5-1: A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
Within the A-1 Agricultural District, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
   Agriculture and agricultural buildings provided that no livestock is housed
closer than one thousand feet (1,000') from any lot in any R district.
   Any buildings or structures occupied by or used for churches, Sunday
schools, parish houses, public and parochial schools, public libraries,
museums, and similar public cultural uses, located not less than forty feet
(40') from any other side lot line in any R district.
   Billboards and sign boards subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No billboard or signboard shall be located within four hundred feet
(400') of any R district.
      2.   No billboard or signboard shall contain more than three hundred
(300) square feet of surface area nor be higher than twenty five feet (25')
above the average grade.
      3.   Billboards or signboards may have constant or flashing illumination,
provided that any such sign located in the direct line of vision of any traffic
control signaling device shall not have contrasting or flashing intermittent
illumination of red, green or amber color. Where a sign is illuminated by light
reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not project upon any part of any
existing State or Federal highway right-of-way, existing residential structure
or any R district.
   Cemeteries.
   Country clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs and similar recreational uses
provided that any principal or accessory building in connection therewith shall
be located not less than four hundred feet (400') from any other lot in any R
district.
   Essential services, as defined in section
10-2-3 of this title, and public service buildings or properties, except such
uses as storage yards, warehouses, garages or other uses customarily conducted
as gainful business, provided any building is located not less than forty feet
(40') from any other lot in any R district.
   Existing railroad rights-of-way, not including switching, storage, freight
yards or sidings.
   Farm dwellings and single-family nonfarm dwellings.
   Home occupations, as defined in section
10-2-3 of this title.
   Open air recreational use such as parks and playgrounds.
   Sale of nursery and greenhouse products where production or growth of
products takes place on the premises.
   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year.
   (B)   Special Uses: The following uses shall be permitted in accordance with
the provisions and procedures indicated by the City Council upon application in
accordance with and after compliance with the procedures set forth in section
10-11-1 of this title:
   Mining, loading of coal, clay, sand or gravel, including equipment,
buildings or structures for washing, crushing, screening, mixing or storage
subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
      1.   No open pit or shaft shall be located less than five hundred feet
(500') from any residence.
      2.   No open pit or shaft shall be located less than one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') from any R district.
      3.   All buildings or structures for washing, crushing, screening, mixing
or storage shall be located not less than five hundred feet (500') from any
residence and one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') from any R
district.
      4.   The operator of an open pit mine in complying with "the Open Cut
Land Reclamation Act" approved August 10, 1961, as amended 1 , shall notify the
Planning Commission at the time the application for permit is made to the
Illinois Department of Conservation and shall furnish for review and approval
by the Planning Commission a plan for restoration of such land as required by
said Act prior to the submission of such plan to the Department of
Conservation, which plan shall detail briefly the steps for restoration of land
to productive uses and shall include specific dates for the completion of
various steps of such restoration.
      5.   The operator of an open pit mine shall not be required to obtain a
special use permit for any tract or tracts of land estimated to be affected by
open cut mining for which a permit has been issued by the Department of
Conservation, pursuant to the provisions of "the Open Cut Land Reclamation Act"
and said tract or tracts of land shall be considered an existing special use as
set forth in subsection
10-11-1(C) of this title to which the special use procedure is inapplicable.
The procedure set forth in subsection
10-11-1(B) of this title shall be followed and complied with by the operator of
an open pit mine in respect to any tract or tracts of land for which a permit
is hereinafter issued by the Department of Conservation for open cut mining,
pursuant to the provisions of said Act prior to the commencement of open cut
mining operations in respect to said tract or tracts of land.
      6.   Oil wells and the storage of crude oil, provided that no such
operation shall be conducted, within two hundred feet (200') of any residence
and five hundred feet (500') of any lot in an R district.
   Sanitary landfills, in accordance with other applicable requirements and
regulations, provided that no such landfill shall be operated within one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') of any R district.
   (C)   Accessory Uses Or Buildings: Accessory use or building, as defined in
section
10-2-3 of this title and as regulated by section
10-11-2 of this title, shall be permitted, including the following accessory
use:
   Buildings and structures accessory to agricultural uses including roadside
stands selling produce grown on the premises, provided that such stands are
located not less than fifty feet (50') from a street or highway right-of-way.
   (D)   Signs: Signs defined as follows shall be permitted:
      1.   Signs accessory to roadside stands shall be limited to two (2) per
lot with no sign larger than ten (10) square feet and set back ten feet (10')
from the right-of-way. Such signs shall be less than fifteen feet (15') in
height and pertain to agricultural products offered for sale and identification
of such stand.
      2.   Real estate sign of a temporary nature, not exceeding two (2) in
number per lot nor larger than twelve (12) square feet, set back ten feet (10')
from any highway, street or road right-of- way.
      3.   Small announcement or professional signs not exceeding four (4)
square feet in area, except that an announcement sign or bulletin board, not
over twelve (12) square feet in area, set back ten feet (10') from any right-
of-way may be erected in connection with any of the permitted principal uses of
a nonresidential character.
      4.   A sign or signs flat against the building appertaining to a
nonconforming use on the premises, not exceeding in the aggregate fifty (50)
square feet in area, except as may be authorized by the Board of Appeals.
   (E)   Height: There shall be no restriction on the height of buildings in
the agricultural districts.
   (F)   Lot Size:
      1.   No lot area shall be less than five (5) acres in size.
      2.   Public school, elementary and high or private school having a
curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in a public elementary school or
public high school including religious instruction in parochial schools,
hereafter erected, shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Elementary school  5 acres plus 1 acre per 100 student design capacity
Junior high school 10 acres plus 1 acre per 100 student design capacity
Senior high school 15 acres plus 1 acre per 100 student design capacity
 
   (G)   Yard Areas: No minimum yard areas shall be required for agricultural
use except a front yard requirement of eighty feet (80') along State and
Federal highways and a requirement of sixty feet (60') along State aid highways
and other public roads.
   (H)   Off-Street Parking Facilities: Off-street parking facilities shall be
provided as required or permitted in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 715/1.
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: R-1 One-Family Dwelling District
10-6-2: R-2 One-Family Dwelling District
10-6-3: R-3 One-Family Dwelling District
10-6-4: R-4 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
10-6-5: R-5 Mobile Home Dwelling District
10-6-1: R-1 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT:
Within the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory use or building, as defined in section
10-2-3 of this title, and as regulated by section
10-11-2 of this title.
      Churches and similar places of worship.
      Convents, monasteries, rectories or parish houses to be occupied by not
more than ten (10) persons.
      Farming, truck gardening and nurseries.
      Home occupations, as defined in section
10-2-3 of this title.
      Library.
      Off-street parking facilities, as required or permitted by section
10-11-3 of this title.
      One-family detached dwelling.
      Private swimming pools appurtenant to a one-family dwelling on the same
lot, when they meet yard depth and width requirements for principal buildings
in the district in which they are located and meet all applicable health and
sanitary requirements.
      Public school, elementary and high, or private school having a curriculum
similar to that ordinarily given in a public elementary school or public high
school including religious instruction in parochial schools.
      Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not
to exceed one year. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord. 2000-03, 8-22-2000)
   (B)   Signs: "Signs" defined as follows, shall be permitted:
      1.   A sign or signboard not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area
appertaining to the sale or lease of the premises or trespassing thereon.
      2.   A nameplate, not exceeding one square foot in area.
      3.   A sign or bulletin board not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in
area erected upon the premises of a church or other institution for the purpose
of displaying the name and activities or services therein provided.
   (C)   Height: The maximum height of buildings permitted shall be as follows:
      1.   One-family detached dwellings, thirty feet (30') and not over two
and one-half (21/2) stories, except as provided in section
10-11-2 of this title.
      2.   Churches and similar places of worship, seventy five feet (75') for
towers or steeples and not more than forty five feet (45') for the principal
building.
   (D)   Lot Size:
      1.   Every one-family detached dwelling, convent, monastery, rectory or
parish house hereafter erected shall be on a lot having an area of not less
than one acre and a width at the established building line of not less than one
hundred fifty feet (150'), except as provided in section
10-11-2 of this title.
      2.   Churches and similar places of worship hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than one acre
in area, and a width at the building line of not less than one hundred fifty
feet (150').
      3.   Public and private schools, the regulations shall apply as required
or permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District.
   (E)   Yard Areas: No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have
a front yard of not less than seventy five feet (75') along Federal and State
rights-of-way; fifty feet (50') along all others. Where a lot has double
frontage, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      2.   Side Yard: On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there
shall be a side yard on each side of not less than forty feet (40'). The
combined total of side yards for corner lots shall not be less than eighty five
feet (85').
On lots upon which a church or similar place of worship is constructed or
extension made to an existing church or a similar place of worship, there shall
be a side yard of not less than one hundred feet (100') on each side of the
main structure and a combined total of side yards of not less than seventy five
feet (75').
      3.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than fifty feet (50') or twenty
percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is larger, but it need
not exceed sixty five feet (65').
   (F)   Percentage Of Lot Coverage: All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of the
lot.
   (G)   Off Street Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities shall be
provided as required or permitted in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-6-2: R-2 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT:
Within the R-2 One-Family Dwelling District, the following regulations shall
apply: (Ord. 93-12, 11-9-1993)
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      Any use permitted in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District, including
institutions of higher education that are accredited by the State, except
farming, truck gardening and nurseries.
      Bed and breakfast inns. (Ord. 93-12, 11-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2007-7, 2-12-
2008)
   (B)   Height: The same regulations shall apply as required or permitted in
the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
   (C)   Lot Size:
      1.   Every one-family detached dwelling, convent, monastery, rectory or
parish house hereafter erected shall be on a lot having an area of not less
than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, and a width at the established
building line of not less than one hundred feet (100'), except as provided in
section
 10-11-2 of this title.
      2.   Churches and similar places of worship hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than one acre
and a width at the building line of not less than one hundred fifty feet
(150').
      3.   For public and private schools, the same regulations shall apply as
required or permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District.
   (D)   Yard Areas: No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement.
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have
a front yard of not less than seventy five feet (75') along all Federal and
State rights-of-way; along all others forty feet (40'). Where a lot has double
frontage, the required front yard should be provided on both streets. (Ord. 69-
23, 4-6-1970)
      2.   Side Yard: On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there
shall be a side yard on each side of not less than twenty feet (20'). The
combined total of the side yards for interior lots shall not be less than forty
feet (40') and the combined total of side yards for corner lots shall not be
less than forty feet (40'). The side yard on each side of a building on a lot
of record which is less than seventy feet (70') in width shall have a width of
not less than seven feet (7').
On lots upon which a church or similar place of worship is constructed or
extension made to an existing church or similar place of worship, there shall
be a side yard of not less than forty feet (40') on each side of the main
structure and a combined total of side yards of not less than eighty feet
(80'). (Ord. 95-6, 11-14-1995)
      3.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than thirty five feet (35'), or
twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is larger, but
it need not exceed fifty feet (50').
   (E)   Percentage Of Lot Coverage: All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of the
lot.
   (F)   Off-Street Parking Facilities: Off-street parking facilities shall be
provided as required or permitted in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-6-3: R-3 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT:
Within the R-3 One-Family Dwelling District, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: Any use permitted in the R-2 One-Family Dwelling
District.
   (B)   Height: The same regulations shall apply as required or permitted in
the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
   (C)   Lot Size:
      1.   Every one-family detached dwelling, convent, monastery, rectory or
parish house hereafter erected shall be on a lot having an area of not less
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, and a width at the
established building line of not less than seventy feet (70'), except as
provided in section
10-11-2 of this title.
      2.   Churches and similar places of worship hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than one-half
(1/2) acre and a width at the building line of not less than eighty five feet
(85').
      3.   Public and private schools, the same regulations shall apply as
required or permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District.
   (D)   Yard Areas: No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement.
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have
a front yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yard: On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there
shall be a side yard on each side of not less than ten feet (10'). The combined
total of the side yards for interior lots shall not be less than twenty feet
(20') and the combined total of side yards for corner lots shall not be less
than thirty feet (30'). The side yard on each side of a building on a lot of
record which is less than seventy feet (70') in width, shall have a width of
not less than seven feet (7').
On lots upon which a church or similar place of worship is constructed or
extension made to an existing church or similar place of worship, there shall
be a side yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main
structure and a combined total of side yards of not less than thirty five feet
(35').
      3.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty five feet (25'), or
twenty percent (20%) of depth of lot, whichever is larger, but it need not
exceed thirty five feet (35').
   (E)   Percentage Of Lot Coverage: All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of the
lot.
   (F)   Parking Facilities: Parking facilities shall be provided as required
or permitted in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-6-4: R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT:
Within the R-4 Multiple-Family Dwelling District, the following regulations
shall apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      Any use permitted in the R-2 One-Family Dwelling District.
      Any uses permitted through the application of subsequent sections of this
title.
      Boarding or lodging house.
      Medical clinics and general hospitals.
      Museums, tourism centers and buildings owned by municipalities.
      One-family row dwellings with not more than eight (8) dwelling units in
one building.
      Private clubs, fraternities, sororities and lodges, excepting those the
chief activity of which is a service, customarily carried on as a business.
      Two-family dwelling and multiple dwellings not to exceed nine (9)
dwelling units or apartments per structure. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord.
74-11, 11-4-1974; Ord. 75-17, 3-15-1976)
   (B)   Height: The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the R-1 One-
Family Dwelling District, except that multiple-family dwellings shall be not
more than three (3) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height and except as
permitted in section
10-11-2 of this title.
   (C)   Lot Size:
      1.   One-Family Dwellings, Private Clubs, Fraternities, Sororities And
Lodges, Boarding Or Lodging Houses And Any Building For Other Non-Dwelling
Uses: The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the R-3 One-Family
Dwelling District, except that the lot size as specified in subsection
10-6-3(C)1 of this chapter shall be five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      2.   Two-Family Dwellings: Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet or three thousand seven hundred fifty
(3,750) square feet per dwelling unit, and a width at the building line of no
less than forty feet (40'), except as provided in section
10-11-2 of this title.
      3.   Multiple-Family Dwellings And Row Houses: Every building hereafter
erected or structurally altered as a multiple-family dwelling or as a row house
shall provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than one thousand three
hundred fifty (1,350) square feet and a width at the building line of not less
than fifty feet (50'), except as provided in section
10-11-2 of this title.
      4.   Lot With Less Area Or Width Than Required: Where a lot of record has
less area or width than herein required for two-family dwellings, multiple-
family dwellings or row houses, such lot may be used for one-family dwelling
purposes or for any of the other non-dwelling uses permitted by this section.
      5.   Churches And Similar Places Of Worship, Public And Private Schools:
The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-3 One-Family Dwelling
District.
   (D)   Yard Areas:
      1.   Front Yard: The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
3 One-Family Dwelling District.
      2.   Side Yard:
         One-family detached dwellings, the same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-3 One-Family Dwelling District.
         Two-family dwellings, the same regulations shall apply as required for
one-family detached dwellings.
         Multiple-family dwellings and row houses, the same regulations shall
apply as required for one-family detached dwellings.
      3.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty five feet (25').
   (E)   Percentage Of Lot Coverage: All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
   (F)   Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as permitted in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-6-5: R-5 MOBILE HOME DWELLING DISTRICT:
Within the R-5 Mobile Home Dwelling District, regulations shall apply as
outlined in chapter 10 of this title and as follows:
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      Any use permitted through the application of chapter 10 of this title.
      A one-family detached dwelling, for occupancy by the manager or custodian
of any mobile home park.
   (B)   Height: The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the R-1 One-
Family Dwelling District, except as specified through the application of
chapter 10 of this title.
   (C)   Lot Size, Percentage Of Lot Coverage And Off Street Parking
Facilities: The regulations as specified through the application of chapter 10
of this title shall apply. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
CHAPTER 7
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: B-1 Neighborhood Business District
10-7-2: B-2 Central Business District
10-7-3: B-3 Highway Business District
10-7-4: B-4 Commercial Highway Interchange District
10-7-5: B-5 Planned Research Office District
10-7-1: B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT:
Within the B-1 Neighborhood Business District, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      Any use permitted in the R-2 One-Family Dwelling District, except single-
family dwellings.
      Any other similar type retail stores not specifically permitted herein
when authorized by the Governing Body after receipt of review and
recommendations from the Planning Commission.
      Art, book, school supply and stationery stores.
      Bakery shops, including the baking and processing of food products when
prepared for retail use on the premises only.
      Barber shop, beauty parlor, massage or similar personal service shops.
      Business and professional office buildings and medical clinics.
      Candy and ice cream store.
      Drugstores.
      Dyeing, dry cleaning and laundry works having a boiler with a steam
generating capacity no greater than one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds of
steam per hour, having no more than five (5) employees employed at any one time
on the premises, having a portion of the premises devoted to the pick up and
delivery to customers of items to be dyed, dry cleaned or laundered and which
does not operate before the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. nor after nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and which utilizes only underwriter approved nonflammable
solutions and materials in its operations.
      Equipment rental service; being more specifically defined as equipment
rental activities to be conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
      Florist shop and conservatory for retail trade on premises only.
      Food and fruit stores.
      Gift stores.
      Growth and sale of nursery and greenhouse products, also sale of
greenhouses.
      Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of draperies,
slip covers and other similar articles, all for sale at either wholesale or
retail.
      Launderette, laundromat, or similar self-service laundry or self-service
dry cleaning establishment.
      Meat markets.
      Newsstands.
      Private clubs.
      Restaurant, tearoom, cafe when establishment is not of the drive-in type
where food is served to customers remaining in motor vehicles.
      Service stations, excluding any such operation which may include the
repair or servicing of motor vehicles, except as defined under "automobile
repair, minor" of section
10-2-3 of this title.
      Tobacco stores.
      All activities, except for automobile off-street parking facilities and
service stations as permitted or required in this B-1 District, should be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
      Any accessory use or building customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses and as regulated by subsequent sections of this title. (Ord. 69-
23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord. 74-7, 10-7-1974; Ord. 78-10, 7-1978)
   (B)   Height: No building or structure shall exceed two and one- half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height, except as permitted in section
10-11-2 of this title.
   (C)   Yard Areas: No building or structure shall be constructed or enlarged
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building.
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of twenty five feet (25') shall be required
when all frontage between two (2) intersecting streets lies within this
district.
         However, when lots within this district are adjacent to and adjoining
lots in an R district, all of which front upon the same street between two (2)
intersecting streets, there shall be established the same front yard setback
for all the frontage as has been established in the abutting R district.
      2.   Side Yard: No side yard is required, except for a corner lot which
abuts upon an R district, or upon an alley separating this district from an R
district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to one-half (1/2) the
front yard required in the abutting R District, but in no case more than twenty
feet (20'). The same setback shall apply also if business buildings front the
intersecting street, commonly referred to as the side street.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25'); provided, however that a one-story accessory building may be
located thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the
rear lot line or alley line, for the storage of motor vehicles and the
unloading and loading of vehicles under roof as provided in section
 10-11-3 of this title.
   (D)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Facilities: Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-7-2: B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
Within the B-2 Central Business District, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      Any use permitted in the B-1 Neighborhood District.
      Any other similar type retail store not specifically listed herein, when
authorized by the Governing Body after receipt of review and recommendations
from the Planning Commission.
      Amusements establishments, bowling alleys, dance halls and other similar
places of recreation when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building.
      Auto accessory store, where there is no driveway entrance across the
sidewalk into the main building.
      Bakery shop, including the baking and processing of food products when
prepared for retail use on the premises only.
      Banks, financial institutions, savings and loan associations.
      Bicycle repair, sales and rental.
      Blue printing and photostating establishments.
      Bus passenger terminal.
      Camera and photographic supply shops for retail sales.
      Clubs and fraternal organizations, catering establishments.
      Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair when conducted
for retail sales on the premises only.
      Department stores.
      Dry cleaning and pressing establishments, when employing facilities for
the cleaning and pressing of dry goods received on the premises from retail
trade only and not including any wholesale cleaning or pressing business, and
when using carbon tetrachloride, perchlorethylene, or other similar
nonflammable solvents approved by the Fire Department.
      Dry goods store, haberdashery, and wearing apparel stores.
      Electrical appliance store and repair, but not including appliance
assembly or manufacturing.
      Frozen food lockers.
      Funeral home and mortuaries.
      Furniture store and upholstery.
      Furrier, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
      Garden supplies and seed stores.
      Gift shops.
      Hardware stores.
      Hobby stores.
      Hotels, including dining and meeting rooms, when business uses occupy the
street frontage except for an entranceway to the hotel lobby.
      Household appliance store and repair shops.
      Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of draperies,
slipcovers, and other similar articles, when conducted as part of the retail
operations and secondary to the main use.
      Jewelry store and watch repair.
      Leather goods and luggage store.
      Liquor store, package goods only.
      Medical clinics.
      Messenger or telegraph service station.
      Multiple family dwellings in any detached building.
      Off-street parking facilities in an open lot or a covered building.
      Offices, business and professional.
      Paint and wallpaper store.
      Photography studio, art gallery or studio, including the developing of
film and pictures when conducted as part of the retail business on the
premises.
      Plumbing showroom, without shop or repair facilities.
      Post Office.
      Public utility collection offices.
      Service stations, public garages, and other motor vehicle services
provided no major repair work is performed out of doors; provided all pumps,
underground storage tanks, lubricating and other devices are located at least
thirty feet (30') from any street right-of-way; provided all fuel, oil or
similar substances are stored inside or underground, and provided all
automobile parts, dismantled vehicles and similar articles are stored within a
building.
      Shoe store.
      Sporting goods stores.
      Tailor shop.
      Taverns, on and off sale.
      Theaters, indoor.
      Typewriter and office equipment sales and service.
      Variety store.
      Wearing apparel shop. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord. 80-23, 1-13-1981)
   (B)   Condition Of Use: All activities, except for automobile off- street
parking, which are permitted or required in this B-2 District, shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
   (C)   Height Of Building: The height of all buildings or structures shall be
no more than three (3) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height except as
permitted in section
10-11-2 of this title.
   (D)   Yard Areas: No building or structure shall be constructed or enlarged
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building:
      1.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all frontage
between two (2) intersecting streets lies within this district. However, when
lots within this district are adjacent to and adjoining lots in an R district,
all of which front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting streets,
there shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the frontage
as has been established in the abutting R district.
Exception: When existing buildings located in this district have already
established a building line at the street line at a depth less than required
above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line, except for
the first fifty feet (50') of the B-2 District frontage adjacent to the R
district, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not less than
ten feet (10').
      2.   Side Yard: No side yard is required except for a corner lot which
abuts upon an R district, or upon an alley separating this district from an R
district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to one-half (1/2) the
front yard required in the abutting R district, but in no case more than ten
feet (10'). The same setback shall apply also if business buildings front the
intersecting street, commonly referred to as the side streets.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20'); provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be relocated
thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the rear lot
line or alley line, for the storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and
loading of vehicles under roof as provided in section
10-11-3 of this title.
   (E)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Facilities: Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-7-3: B-3 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT:
Within the B-3 Highway Business District, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      Any use permitted in the B-2 Central Business District.
      Air conditioning and heating sales and service.
      Automobile motor repair, sales and service shop, including automobile
body repair and rebuilding, and painting of automobiles.
      Automobile washing, including the use of mechanical conveyors, blowers
and steam cleaning.
      Battery and tire service stations.
      Beverage, non-alcoholic, bottling and distributing.
      Bicycle and motorcycle, sales, repair and rental.
      Boat display, sales and service.
      Farm implement display, sales and service.
      Feed and seed store.
      Kennel.
      Motel.
      Pet shop or animal hospital when conducted wholly within an enclosed
building.
      Plumbing, heating and roofing supply shops when conducted wholly within a
building.
      Recreation places, including bowling alley, dance hall, gymnasium,
skating rink, archery range, miniature golf course, or other similar places of
amusement or entertainment when operated for pecuniary profit.
      Restaurant, non-drive-in, drive-in car service.
      Trailer sales or rental (house trailers) on an open lot or within a
building.
      Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses and accessory
buildings when located on the same premises. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord.
72-17, 10-2-1972)
   (B)   Height: No building or structure shall exceed three (3) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height except as permitted in section
10-11-2 of this title.
   (C)   Lot Size: Every building hereafter erected shall be on a lot having an
area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a width at the
established building line of not less than eighty feet (80'), except as
provided in subsequent sections of this title.
   (D)   Yard Areas: No building or structure shall be constructed or enlarged
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a building is constructed shall have
a front yard of not less than seventy five feet (75') along all Federal and
State rights-of-way; along all others, thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Side Yard: No side yard is required except for a lot which abuts
upon an R district, or upon an alley separating this district from an R
district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to one-half (1/2) the
front yard required in the abutting R district, but in no case less than twenty
feet (20').
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20'); provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be located
thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the rear lot
line or alley line, for the storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and
loading of vehicles under roof.
   (E)   Buffer Area: On lots abutting an R district, there shall be provided a
twenty foot (20') wide planting strip extending the length of the lot adjoining
the R district planted with trees and shrubs to provide a dense screen at
maturity.
   (F)   Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in section
10-11-3 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-7-4: B-4 COMMERCIAL HIGHWAY INTERCHANGE DISTRICT 1:
   (A)   Intent: This Commercial Highway Business District is established to
provide areas in which the principal use of land is devoted to commercial
establishments which cater specifically to the needs of motor vehicle oriented
trade. The intent of this district is to provide appropriate space and
sufficient depth from the street to satisfy the needs of modern commercial
development where access is entirely dependent on motor vehicle trade; and to
encourage the development of these locations with such uses and in such a
manner as to minimize traffic hazards and interference with other uses.
It is the intent of these B-4 District regulations to facilitate the harmonious
interaction of development with its natural setting to preserve the character
of the district and to minimize friction with abutting land uses. This intent
is to be achieved through the coordinated application of standards which:
      1.   Promote traffic safety by providing proper control of ingress and
egress, particularly for large traffic generators;
      2.   Facilitate traffic movement by use of access roads;
      3.   Prevent crowded, cluttered rights-of-way through set back and sign
control, and other appropriate means;
      4.   Assure adequate space for parking, loading, and future expansion;
and
      5.   Preserve open spaces.
The B-4 District is intended to be applied to the area around the Illinois
Route 336 interchange. The B-4 District is not intended to be used for strip
commercial purposes. One stop complexes providing automotive services, motels,
restaurants, offices, and similar uses are encouraged.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      Amusement, entertainment and recreational establishments (excluding adult
entertainment establishments).
      Automobile wash or automatic car wash.
      Automotive service stations.
      Banks and financial institutions, with drive-in facilities.
      Barbershop and beauty shop.
      Convenience stores with gas pumps.
      Drugstore.
      Fast food restaurants.
      Florist.
      Grocery store.
      Insurance and real estate services.
      Personal services including: laundering, dry cleaning, and dyeing
services; photographic services (including commercial); beauty and barber
services; alteration and garment repair; fur repair and storage service, shoe
repair, shoeshining, and hat cleaning services.
      Professional and business offices. The following standards shall apply:
      1.   The area to be used for professional and business offices shall be
depicted on the development concept plan at the time of rezoning.
      2.   Areas designated for professional and business offices shall not be
located on arterial roadways (including parcels which do not have direct access
to the arterial); and
      3.   Areas designated for professional and business offices shall not
exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the acreage proposed for rezoning.
      Recreational uses, such as: amusement parks, bowling alleys, roller
skating rinks, archery ranges, miniature golf courses, golf driving ranges, and
other similar recreational uses.
      Restaurants, provided on premises consumption of food and beverage is in
a completely enclosed room or in an interior court completely surrounded by the
restaurant. Consumption of food or beverage in any outdoor area, including
outdoor patios and decks, whether screened or unscreened or under awnings,
which outdoor area is not completely enclosed by the exterior walls of the
restaurant building shall only be permitted as provided below.
      Restaurant, with outdoor dining, provided outdoor dining shall be
permitted between the hours of:
      6:00 A.M. and 10:00 P.M., Sunday through Thursday
      6:00 A.M. and 11:00 P.M., Friday and Saturday
         Patrons shall be permitted to remain outdoors to complete meals and
beverages served before the latest hours indicated above. Outdoor dining shall
be prohibited at any other time. The sale and consumption of all food and
beverages between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M., Sunday through Thursday, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M., Friday and Saturday, shall take place only within a completely
enclosed structure, except as otherwise provided in these regulations.
      Retail sales of automotive parts and accessories (including
installation).
      Sale of fruit, gifts or novelties, souvenir shops and similar uses
catering to the traveling public; provided, all display of products shall be
inside a completely enclosed building and are carried on in connection with
another use permitted in the district.
      Theater.
      Transient accommodations. Establishments having fifty (50) rooms or more
may have a restaurant, nightclub and bar and, in addition, shops for the retail
sale of flowers, sundries, books, jewelry, gifts, art and similar items, and
barber or beauty shops. Such uses must be located within the main building.
      Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above and which in
the opinion of the Board of Zoning Appeals will not be injurious to the
district.
   (C)   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures which:
      1.   Are customarily accessory and clearly incidental and subordinate to
permitted or permissible uses and structures.
      2.   Are located on the same lot as the permitted or permissible use or
structure, or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership.
   (D)   Prohibited Uses And Structures: Any use or structure not specifically,
provisionally, or by reasonable implication permitted herein.
   (E)   Special Exceptions: (Permissible after public notice and hearings by
the Board of Appeals and the City Council, see chapter 14 of this title.):
      Emergency services.
      Outdoor sale and consumption of food and beverages at a restaurant after
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., Sunday through Thursday, and after eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M., Friday and Saturday.
      Truck stops.
   (F)   Minimum Lot Requirements:
      1.   Area:
         (a)   Minimum area for consideration of rezoning to B-4 classification
is four (4) acres.
         (b)   Minimum area for consideration of development concept plan is
four (4) acres.
         (c)   Minimum lot size within a B-4 District is one acre.
   (G)   Maximum Lot Coverage By All Buildings (Includes Accessory Buildings):
Thirty five percent (35%).
   (H)   Minimum Yard Requirements: Front yards shall be a minimum of fifty
feet (50') except that filling station's pumps, pump islands, pump island and
drive-in bank canopies, and freestanding pylon signs may be erected no closer
than thirty five feet (35') from any roadway right-of-way line. No off street
loading area is permitted in a required front yard. Front yards shall have a
landscape buffer in accordance with section
10-3-7 of this title and not less than twenty five feet (25') in width. No
structure, other than boundary walls or a permitted monument, directional or
information sign shall be located in the required front buffer. Monument signs
shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') from any roadway right-of-way
line.
      Side and rear yards shall be at least fifty feet (50'), twenty five feet
(25') of which shall be a landscaped buffer in accordance with these
regulations. Off street loading areas are permitted in required side or rear
yards, but shall not be located within twenty five feet (25') of a property
line.
   (I)   Maximum Impervious Area: The maximum impervious area of any lot or
parcel of land within a B-4 District shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of
the total lot area.
   (J)   Distance Between Buildings: No two (2) buildings on the same parcel
shall be located closer to one another than a distance equal to the height of
the lower building.
   (K)   Maximum Height Of Structures: All structures: Thirty feet (30') except
for transient accommodations which shall not exceed forty five feet (45') in
height. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
 
Notes
1: 1. See also section
   10-3-7 of this title.
10-7-5: B-5 PLANNED RESEARCH OFFICE DISTRICT 1:
   (A)   Intent: The purpose of the B-5 Planned Research Office Zoning District
is to provide the maximum of land and design development opportunities for
planned research office facilities in harmony with reasonable area, building
coverage, height, setback and service requirements and to provide a means of
mixing such appropriate land uses as may not otherwise be permitted for planned
research office facilities in any of the other established zoning districts.
The B-5 Zoning District will be applied only upon specific petition therefor by
persons proposing a unique type of planned development for planned research
office facilities in keeping with the purpose of the district stated herein.
      Within the B-5 Zoning District, it is intended that uses shall be
arranged so that vehicular traffic and other commercial or industrial
influences shall not disturb the privacy, tranquility and integrity of
adjoining residential areas. Uses within the district shall be designed and
constructed for maximum pedestrian accessibility and research facilities and
related uses shall be located together as appropriate. It is further intended
that the B-5 Zoning District shall be located within a park like setting that
is aesthetically pleasing and is not obnoxious or offensive and that the
district shall create a minimal impact on the surrounding area and the
environment. Facilities within a B-5 Zoning District shall provide maximum
protection to preclude odor, liquids, fumes, smoke, gas, dust, litter, noise,
vibration and similar objectionable hazards. Beyond that, the B-5 Zoning
District shall be designed and located in accordance with established planning
and zoning practices; shall be readily accessible to major transportation
facilities and other Municipal services; and shall include only those uses that
are both internally and externally compatible with the site.
   (B)   Zoning District Area Requirements: A B-5 Zoning District shall consist
of:
      Not less than twenty (20) contiguous acres under single, unified
ownership and control; or
      Contiguous acres adjacent to and added to an existing B-5 Zoning
District.
   (C)   Permitted Uses: Land and buildings within a B-5 Zoning District shall
be used only for the following principal uses:
      Administrative, business, professional office building or complex, which
may include accessory uses for office workers such as a restaurant, coffee
shop, newspaper or candy stand.
      Bank, savings and loan association, credit institution or stockbrokerage;
provided, however, that said use shall be permitted only if it is accessory and
incidental to the primary planned research office facilities and further
provided that any such use shall be oriented internally to the major
development of the planned research office facilities, with no direct access to
major arterials external to the project.
      Building or use owned or operated by the City of Carthage, including
schools, libraries, museums, art galleries, community buildings, parks,
playgrounds, picnic areas, swimming pools or other recreational uses, or
utility structures or stations owned or operated by the City of Carthage,
including transmission lines, poles, guywires and pipelines as are necessary
for the installation and maintenance of utility services.
      Childcare facilities or physical fitness centers designed for the primary
use of office center employees; provided, however, that said use shall be
permitted only as accessory and incidental to the primary planned research
office facilities, and further provided that any such use shall be oriented
internally to the major development of the planned research office facilities,
with no direct access to major arterials external to the project.
      Drugstore; provided, however, that said use shall be permitted only as
accessory and incidental to the primary planned research office facilities and
further provided that any such use shall be oriented internally to the major
development of the planned research office facilities, with no direct access to
major arterials external to the project.
      Hotel/motel that may include accessory uses such as restaurant, coffee
shop, meeting rooms and recreational facilities; provided, however, that any
such hotel/motel shall be oriented internally to the major development of the
planned research office facilities with no direct access to major arterials
external to the project.
      Light industrial manufacturing, assembling and servicing, including
electronics, telecommunications, computer equipment, instruments and like and
related uses and pharmaceutical and other health related products.
      Medical/dental research facilities and laboratories, medical/dental/
surgical clinics, medical/dental/surgical offices, and medical educational uses
are permitted. All such facilities shall be oriented internally to the major
development of the planned research office facilities with no direct access to
major arterials external to the project.
      Research and service center; provided, however, that research and service
facilities shall be devoted almost exclusively to research and development
activities which are not offensive or obnoxious and which are conducted wholly
within enclosed buildings and provide no outdoor storage of materials,
equipment or products. Research and service center facilities may contain
offices, warehouses, and some light fabrication, provided that the principal
and primary function is research and development.
      Restaurant, cafeteria or other eating establishment engaged in the retail
sale of prepared food and drink for consumption on the premises; provided,
however, that said use shall be permitted only accessory and incidental to the
primary planned research office facilities and further provided that any such
use shall be oriented internally to the major development of the planned
research office facilities, with no direct access to major arterials external
to the project.
      Retail, commercial shop(s), such as travel agencies, card and gift shops,
insurance agencies, office supply stores, clothing stores, dry cleaners, copy
centers, bookstores and postal facilities, either individually or harmoniously
designed in a group of clustered structures providing for unitary design under
single control; provided, however, that said use shall be permitted only as
accessory and incidental to the primary planned research office facilities and
further provided that any such use shall be oriented internally to the major
development of the planned research office facilities, with no direct access to
major arterials external to the project.
   (D)   Minimum Site Design Standards:
      1.   Height: Buildings and structures within a B-5 Zoning District shall
not exceed sixty five feet (65') in height; provided, however, that buildings
and structures adjacent to a single- family detached residential zoning
district shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
      2.   Lot Coverage: At least forty percent (40%) of the total B-5 Zoning
District land area shall be permeable, open area. A minimum of thirty percent
(30%) of each zoning lot shall be permeable, open area; provided, however, that
City Council may permit the required open coverage to be reduced to twenty five
percent (25%) of a zoning lot if the applicant demonstrates that such a
percentage of coverage is not inimical to the public health, safety, welfare
and aesthetic purposes of this chapter and does not adversely affect or
undermine the purposes of the B-5 Zoning District, including, but not limited
to, the creation of a park like atmosphere within the research corporate park.
In no instance may the total zoning lot coverage (i.e., the area covered by
buildings, parking, and all other nonpermeable structures or facilities) exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the zoning lot.
      3.   Zoning Lot Area And Width: Each zoning lot shall have an area of no
less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet and a minimum width of two
hundred feet (200') at the front property line.
      4.   Building Coverage: Maximum building coverage within zoning lots
encompassing two (2) or more acres shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%)
of the total land area within the zoning lot and within zoning lots of less
than two (2) acres, maximum building coverage shall not exceed thirty percent
(30%) of the total land area within the zoning lot. The maximum building
coverage on a B-5 development parcel may reach one hundred percent (100%) in
such instances where the B-5 development parcel is comprised of the area that
describes only the building or structure footprint of a permitted principal,
accessory or conditional use.
      5.   Setbacks: The minimum building setbacks, as measured from the zoning
lot boundary, shall be:
         (a)   Eighty feet (80') along all road rights-of-way, whether said
road rights-of-way are public or private; provided, however, that City Council
may permit a minimum setback of thirty feet (30') along private road rights-of-
way if the applicant demonstrates that such a setback is not inimical to the
public health, safety, welfare and aesthetic purposes of this chapter and does
not adversely affect or undermine the integrity of the B-5 Zoning District.
         (b)   Thirty feet (30') along the side and rear property boundaries.
         (c)   If the property is located adjacent to a single-family detached
residential zoning district, two hundred feet (200') therefrom; provided,
however, that City Council may permit a smaller setback, to a minimum of thirty
feet (30'), if the applicant demonstrates that such a setback is not inimical
to the public health, safety, welfare, and aesthetic purposes of this chapter
and does not adversely affect or undermine the integrity of the Single-Family
Residential Zoning District or the purposes of the B-5 Zoning District.
      6.   Setbacks For Other Structures: The minimum setbacks for other
structures, parking lots, on site private roads and parking aisles (excluding
access drives), private walkways, swimming pools, tennis courts or pads for
decorative or recreational use, as measured from the zoning lot boundary, shall
be:
         (a)   Thirty feet (30'), fully landscaped, from any road rights-of-
way, whether said road rights-of-way are public or private.
         (b)   Ten feet (10') fully landscaped from any side or rear property
boundaries.
         (c)   If the property is located adjacent to a single-family detached
residential zoning district, one hundred feet (100') therefrom; provided,
however, that City Council may permit a smaller setback, to a minimum of thirty
feet (30'), if the applicant demonstrates that such a setback is not inimical
to the public health, safety, welfare, and aesthetic purposes of this chapter
and does not adversely affect or undermine the integrity of the Single-Family
Residential Zoning District or the purposes of the B-5 Zoning District.
      7.   Off Site Impact: All research, development and related activities
shall be conducted entirely within enclosed structures. No material, supplies,
equipment or merchandise shall be stored outside of any building or structure.
No use shall create any odor, liquids, smoke, gas, dust, litter, noise,
vibration or other obnoxious, offensive or objectionable matter which shall be
detectable outside of the zoning lot.
      8.   Underground Storage: Underground storage of hazardous or flammable
materials, liquids or chemicals shall not be permitted in a B-5 Zoning
District, except that combustible and flammable liquids and liquefied gas as
defined in NFPA 30, 54 and 58 to include gasoline, kerosene, petroleum
distillates, diesel fuel and liquefied gas in underground tanks which shall be
designed, installed, constructed and located to prevent seepage of contained
products into surrounding subsurface areas and which shall comply with the NFPA
codes and all prevailing statutory and regulatory requirements and standards.
In addition, leak detectors shall be installed and maintained in accordance
with City standards and criteria.
      9.   Subdivision Requirements: Development within a B-5 Zoning District
shall be in accordance with title 11 of this Code.
      10.   General Site Development Plan Submittal And Review: Every zoning
application and every application for a building permit within a B-5 Zoning
District, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      11.   Review Criteria For Preliminary And Final Site Plans:
         (a)   Development Intensity: The proposed development shall have an
intensity consistent with the surrounding land uses and zoning. Intensity of a
proposed development shall be used in determining compliance with the
requirements of the Illinois Route 336 corridor plan or this Code and in
determining the character of the proposed development. Net intensities of a
portion of an existing development shall not be used as a precedent for higher
intensities in surrounding areas. To ensure that a precedent is not set, net
intensities of any portion of a district shall be compatible with other
portions of the district and surrounding districts.
         (b)   Internal/External Relationship:
            (1)   Orientation: The orientation of the development shall
generally be toward internal streets and pedestrian systems and away from
adjacent local streets and adjacent residential land uses. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-
2008)
 
Notes
1: 1. See also section
   10-3-7 of this title.
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: I-1 Light Industrial District
10-8-2: I-2 General Industrial District
10-8-3: I-3 Planned Industrial District
10-8-1: I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
Within the I-1 Light Industrial District, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: A light industrial use is one which creates a minimum
amount of nuisance outside the plant; is conducted entirely within enclosed
building; does not use the open area around such buildings for storage of raw
materials or manufactured products or for any other industrial purpose other
than transporting goods between buildings, provides for enclosed loading and
unloading berths, and which is not noxious or offensive by reason of the
emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gas, odors, noises or vibrations beyond the
confines of the building:
      Animal hospitals.
      Any agricultural use.
      Automobile motor repair, sales and service shop, including automobile
body repair and rebuilding and painting of automobiles.
      Bakeries.
      Bottling works.
      Building material yards where no mill work is done.
      Cabinet making establishments and carpenter shops which use no motors
larger than ten (10) horsepower.
      Clothing factories.
      Contractors' yards.
      Dairies.
      Dry cleaning plants.
      Dyeing plants.
      Feed processing and distributing facilities.
      Fruit canning and packing establishments.
      Ice plants.
      Laundries.
      Machine shops.
      Milk distribution stations.
      Optical goods factories.
      Paper box factories.
      Pencil factories.
      Printing, publication and engraving plants.
      Research and development organizations.
      Sheet metal shops.
      Storage firms.
      Trucking terminals.
      Welding shops.
      Wholesale businesses. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord. 86-10, 11-12-1986)
   (B)   Conditions Of Use: The above permitted uses shall be subject to the
following:
      1.   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall take place without creating
disturbing influences to the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
      2.   All business, production, servicing and processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the nearest point of any residential R district,
all storage shall be in completely enclosed buildings or structures, and
storage located elsewhere in this district may be open to the sky, but shall be
enclosed by solid wall or fence, including solid doors or gates thereto, at
least eight feet (8') high but in no case lower than the enclosed storage.
However, open off-street loading facilities and open off-street parking
facilities for the storage of motor vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the
district except for such screening of parking and loading facilities as may be
required.
   (C)   Height: No building or structure shall exceed three (3) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height, except as permitted in section
 10-11-2 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
   (D)   Yard Areas:
      1.   Front Yard: All buildings and structures shall have a front yard
depth of at least twenty five feet (25'). Buildings and structures placed on
corner lots shall observe front yard requirements on both streets. That portion
of this district which borders and is adjacent to U.S. Route 136 shall have
front yard depth of at least seventy five feet (75').
      2.   Side Yard: All buildings and structures shall have a side yard depth
of at least twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings and structures shall have a rear yard depth
of at least twenty five feet (25').
      4.   Yards Adjacent To Residential Districts: All buildings and
structures on lots adjacent to residential districts shall be located so as to
provide side yard widths or rear yard depths of at least fifty feet (50')
adjacent to such residential districts. (Ord. 88-8, 9-13-1988)
      5.   Railroad Siding Frontage: No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.
   (E)   Performance Standards: The following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Noise: The sound pressure level, to be measured as described below,
shall not exceed the following decibel levels in the designated octave bands
when adjacent to the designated types of use districts:
Octave Band Cycles Per Second Sound Level In Decibels
                              All Residential Districts B-1, B-2, B-3
Octave Band Cycles Per Second Sound Level In Decibels
                              All Residential Districts B-1, B-2, B-3
    0 to 75               58                        73
    75 to 150             54                        69
    150 to 300            50                        65
    300 to 600            46                        61
    600 to 1200           40                        55
    1200 to 2400          33                        48
    2400 to 4800          26                        41
    Over 4800             20                        35
 
      Objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature which are not easily
measured shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      Measurement is to be made at the nearest boundary of the nearest
residential area or at any other point along the boundary where the level is
higher. The sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter as described by the American Standards
Association.
      2.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke or dusts by
manufacturing plants in an amount sufficient to create a general nuisance to
adjoining properties is prohibited. Total emission of smoke and particulate
matter shall be limited to the following:
         Ringelmann requirements: All smoke and the emission of all other
particulate matter in quantities sufficient to produce an opacity at any point
greater than Ringelmann 3 is prohibited, excepting a plume consisting entirely
of condensed steam. A Ringelmann 1 unit is defined as twenty percent (20%)
density for one minute. No more than fifteen (15) units of Ringelmann smoke are
permitted per hour and no smoke more intense than Ringelmann 2 except that
during one hour of a twenty four (24) hour day, thirty (30) units of smoke may
be emitted but with no smoke more intense than Ringelmann 3 (see Ringelmann
Chart, page 1).
         The total quantity of emitted solids shall not exceed one pound per
hour, per acre of lot area.
      3.   Odors: No odor shall be emitted by any use permitted in this
district in such quantities as to be readily detectable by an average observer
at any point on the boundary line of the premises or beyond.
      4.   Noxious Gases: Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of such toxic gases or particulate
matter shall be from a stack.
      5.   Glare And Heat: Operation producing intense light or heat shall be
performed within an enclosed building and not be visible beyond any lot line
bounding the property whereon the use is conducted.
      6.   Vibrations: No uses shall be located and no equipment shall be
installed in such a way to produce intense, earth-shaking vibrations which are
noticeable at the property lines of the subject premises.
   (F)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Facilities: Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in section
10-11-3 of this title.
   (G)   Planting Areas:
      1.   Landscape development is required to include an area of at least
twenty feet (20') in width along all streets, with the exception of approved
entrances, which border the proposed development, to be planted and maintained
with trees and shrubbery to serve as a screen for the parking and storage
areas.
      2.   A planting screen, consisting of suitable shrubbery, maintained at a
ten foot (10') height by ten foot (10') width, is to be planted wherever the
industrial use abuts a residential district. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-8-2: I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
Within the I-2 General Industrial District, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Uses Permitted:
      Any use permitted in the I-1 Light Industrial District.
      Any industrial or manufacturing activity not in conflict with any other
ordinance of the County.
   (B)   Special Uses: The following uses shall be considered special use
exceptions and an applicant for such special use exceptions shall follow the
procedure outlined in section
10-11-1 of this title:
      Aboveground storage facilities for gasoline, oil and alcohol in excess of
five hundred (500) gallons.
      Bag cleaning plants.
      Billboards.
      Boiler and tank works.
      Central mixing plants for cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials.
      Coke ovens.
      Distillation plants for bones, coal, wood or tar.
      Establishments which cure, tan or store raw hides and skins.
      Fat rendering plants.
      Forge plants.
      Foundries and metal fabrication plants.
      Plants for the manufacture of acetylene, acid, alcohol, alcoholic
beverages, ammonia, bleaching powder, chemicals, brick, pottery, terra cotta,
tile, candles, disinfectants, dye-stuffs, fertilizer, illuminating or heating
gas (or storage of same), linseed oil, paint, oil, turpentine, varnish, soap
and tar products.
      Slaughterhouses and stockyards.
      Smelting plants.
      Any other industrial or manufacturing activity which in the opinion of
the Planning Commission will not emit detrimental or obnoxious noise,
vibrations, smoke, odor, dust, heat or light or create other objectionable
conditions beyond the limits of the general industrial district in which it is
located.
   (C)   Conditions Of Use: The above permitted uses are subject to the same
conditions as in the I-1 Light Industrial District.
   (D)   Height: No building or structure shall exceed six (6) stories or
seventy five feet (75') in height, except as permitted in section
10-11-2 of this title.
   (E)   Yard Areas:
      1.   Front Yard: All buildings and structures shall have a front yard
depth of at least two hundred feet (200').
         (a)   Front Yards On Corner Lots: Buildings and structures placed on
corner lots shall observe front yard requirements on both streets.
      2.   Side Yard: All buildings and structures shall have side yard widths
of at least one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings and structures shall have rear yard depths
of at least one hundred feet (100').
      4.   Yards Adjacent To Residential Districts: All buildings and
structures on lots adjacent to residential districts shall be located so as to
provide side yard widths or rear yard depths of at least five hundred feet
(500') adjacent to such residential districts.
      5.   Railroad Siding Frontage: No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.
   (F)   Performance Standards: The same requirements shall apply as in the I-
1 Light Industrial District.
   (G)   Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities: Parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in section
10-11-3 of this title.
   (H)   Planting Areas:
      1.   Landscape development is required to include an area of at least
fifty feet (50') in width along all streets, with the exception of approved
entrances which border the proposed development, to be planted and maintained
with trees and shrubbery to serve as a screen for the parking and storage
areas.
      2.   A planting screen, consisting of suitable shrubbery and trees
maintained at a twenty foot (20') height by thirty foot (30') width, to be
planted wherever the industrial use abuts any other use district. (Ord. 69-23,
4-6-1970)
10-8-3: I-3 PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT 1:
   (A)   Intent: It is the intent of this district that it be used to promote
industrial activity, more efficient and economical industrial land use, harmony
in physical design and industrial relationships, variety and amenity in
industrial development, and the protection of adjacent and nearby existing and
future nonindustrial uses and activities. It is further the intent of this
district that it be so located in relation to major thoroughfares that
resulting traffic generated by industrial activity will not be channeled
through residential areas or unduly interfere with traffic on major
thoroughfares.
      A Planned Industrial Development District: 1) is land under unified
control, planned and developed as a whole in a single development operation or
approved programmed series of development operations, primarily for industrial,
warehousing and distribution activity and necessary supporting accessory and
related uses and facilities; 2) is designed with a park like atmosphere
including extensive landscaping, low ground coverage by buildings and
structures, buildings of moderate height, and careful attention to such
aesthetic considerations as locations and sizes of signs, lighting, off street
parking and off street loading areas, and the like; 3) is developed according
to plans which include streets, utilities, various types of transportation
access, and the like; 4) includes approved provisions and restrictions on the
lessees or owners of land within the I-3 District as to how the individual lots
may be used and the responsibilities for the upkeep thereof; and 5) includes a
program of full provision, maintenance, and operation of any common facilities
or open spaces.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: Land and buildings within an I-3 Zoning District shall
be used only for the following purposes:
      Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and devices,
radios and phonographs.
      Automotive and marine products; storage, manufacturing, and repair.
      Buildings, structures, and uses accessory and customarily incidental to
any of the uses herein. All of the uses permitted under this section shall have
their primary operations conducted entirely within enclosed buildings, and
shall not emit any obnoxious dust or smoke, or noxious odor or fumes outside of
the building housing the operation. All storage shall be confined to the
interior of buildings, or be screened in such a manner that it is not readily
noticeable to the public.
      Experimental laboratories.
      Farm machinery sales and repair.
      Light manufacturing (including paint manufacturing), processing
(including food processing, but not a slaughterhouse), packaging, or
fabricating in a completely enclosed building.
      Manufacture and bottling of nonalcoholic beverages.
      Other assembly or limited manufacturing uses of a similar nature, when
located and arranged according to a plan providing for aesthetic or other
conditions in harmony with the neighborhood, and approved by the Planning
Commission.
      Printing, lithographing, publishing, or similar establishments.
      Radio and television stations and transmitters. Transmission towers
associated with such use shall require a special exception.
      Research, experimental, or testing laboratories.
      Retail sales of lumber and building supplies in a completely enclosed
building.
      Service establishments catering to commerce and industry including parcel
services, business offices, linen supply, freight movers, communication
services, business machine services, canteen services, hiring and union halls,
employment agency, sign company, automotive service or truck stops, and similar
uses.
      The manufacturing, compounding, assembling, or treatment of articles of
merchandise from the following prepared materials: aluminum, bond, cellophane,
canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, iron,
leather, paper, plastics, or semiprecious metals or stones, shells, steel,
rubber, textiles, tin, wood (except planning mill) and yarns.
      The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, treatment, or
fabrication of, ceramics, cosmetics, clothing, jewelry, instruments, optical
goods, pharmaceuticals and toiletries.
      Wholesaling, warehousing, storage, or distribution establishments, and
similar uses.
      All uses require site and development plan approval.
   (C)   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures which are
customarily accessory and clearly incidental and subordinate to permitted
principal uses and structures, provided, however, that no residential
facilities shall be permitted in the district except for watchmen or caretakers
whose work requires residence on the premises or for employees who will be
temporarily quartered on the premises.
   (D)   Prohibited Uses And Structures:
      Automobile wrecking yard or junkyard.
      Bulk storage yards.
      Chemical and fertilizer manufacture.
      Dwelling units (including motel and hotel) except as provided under
accessory uses, hospitals, or clinics (except clinic in connection with
industrial activity), nursing home and similar uses, private or public
elementary or high schools, churches, yards or lots for scrap or salvage
operations or for processing, storage, display, or sale of any scrap, salvage,
or secondhand building materials and automotive vehicle parts.
      Explosives manufacturing or storage.
      Forges, foundries, garbage incinerators, animal reduction, rubbish
storage, and smelters.
      Outdoor storage yards and lots.
      Paper and pulp manufacture.
      Petroleum refining.
      Recycling centers.
      Slaughter of animals.
      Stockyards or feeding pens.
      Storage of bulk fertilizer, explosives, gasoline in excess of fifty
thousand (50,000) gallons, grease, and radioactive materials.
      Tannery or the curing or storage of raw hides.
      Transmission towers.
      Any other uses or structures not specifically, provisionally, or by
reasonable implication permitted herein.
   (E)   Special Exceptions: (Permissible after public notice and hearings by
the Board of Appeals and the City Council, see chapter 14 of this title.)
      Any industrial use not specifically permitted or prohibited which is
otherwise lawful.
   (F)   Maximum Residential Density: None.
   (G)   Minimum Lot Requirements:
      1.   Planned industrial districts shall have a minimum area of at least
sixty (60) acres.
      2.   Individual building sites shall be of such size that the development
will have architectural unity and flexibility in arrangements and be of such
size that all space requirements provided for in this section are satisfied.
   (H)   Minimum Open Space Requirements: Twenty percent (20%).
   (I)   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   No portion of any building or structure and no activity related to
any use within the district shall be located closer than twenty five feet (25')
to any I-3 boundary. Where an I-3 District abuts property zoned residential, no
building or structure shall be located within seventy five feet (75') of the
boundary of the I-3 District and no activity shall be permitted within the
seventy five foot (75') area, except that off street parking, but not off
street loading, may be permitted to within twenty five feet (25') of the I-
3 residential boundary, but not closer to the I-3 residential boundary. In
those instances where a rezoning to residential category for property abutting
or adjoining an established I-3 District is accomplished after the I-3 District
has been established, the provisions of the first sentence of this subsection
shall apply, and no use in an I-3 District established prior to such
residential zoning shall be made nonconforming within an I-3 District.
      2.   No parking shall be permitted within fifteen feet (15') or twenty
five feet (25') of any side or rear property line depending on the buffer
width.
   (J)   Maximum Height Of Structures: Three (3) stories or thirty five feet
(35'). (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
 
Notes
1: 1. See also section
   10-3-7 of this title.
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: S-1 Floodplain And Drainageway District
10-9-2: S-2 Slope District
10-9-3: S-3 Airport District
10-9-4: S-4 Historic Buildings District
10-9-5: P-1 Planned Unit Development Overlay District
10-9-1: S-1 FLOODPLAIN AND DRAINAGEWAY DISTRICT:
The S-1 Floodplain and Drainageway District is designed to meet the needs of
stormwater channels to carry abnormal flows of water in time of flood; to
prevent encroachments into the district which will unduly increase flood
heights and damage; and to prevent the loss of life and excessive damage to
property in the area of greatest flood hazard. Within the S-1 Floodplain and
Drainageway District, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Uses Permitted:
      Agriculture, including customary agricultural buildings and structures
but not including permanent dwellings; nurseries and greenhouses, provided that
any greenhouse heating plant, or any building or enclosure in which animals are
kept shall comply with the distance requirement in subsection (C) of this
section.
      Commercial poultry farms and feeding facilities, kennels, riding stables
and dairies, provided that any building or enclosure in which animals or fowl
are kept shall comply with the distance requirement in subsection (C) of this
section.
      The following uses may be permitted when authorized by the Governing Body
upon application in accordance with and offer compliance with the procedures
set forth in subsection
10-11-1(B) of this title:
         Baseball, football stadium, or sports arena, provided that the
location of any structure used for such purposes shall comply with two (2)
times the distance requirements in subsection (C) of this section.
         Commercial mines, quarries and gravel pits, temporary sawmills;
provided that any lot or tract of land for such use, other than for a temporary
sawmill, shall be not less than ten (10) acres in area, and provided that the
location of any such mine quarries and gravel pits be subject to the provisions
of the A-1 Agricultural District and any power driven or power producing
machinery or equipment in connection with a temporary sawmill shall comply with
four (4) times the distance requirement in subsection (C) of this section.
         Disposal of refuse or garbage by the City, County or agents thereof
providing the disposal operation meets the regulations and standards for
sanitary landfills set by the Illinois Department of Public Health.
         Drive-in theaters and other similar commercial recreation
establishments, provided that those are located on premises abutting on a
highway or primary thoroughfare, and so as to comply with two (2) times the
distance requirement in subsection (C) of this section.
         Equipment and materials storage yards, and junkyards, provided these
are enclosed on all sides by a solid fence or wall not less than eight feet
(8') high; petroleum or inflammable liquids storage. Provided, further that any
of the foregoing uses shall be authorized only on premises adjoining and within
one thousand feet (1,000') of a railroad or a highway or primary thoroughfare,
and is located as to comply with three (3) times the distance requirement in
subsection (C) of this section, and which premises, in addition, are deemed
suitable by the Governing Body for the intended use, for reasons, among others,
of topography, screening by trees, or other features, and in consideration of
the present and potential use of adjacent properties.
         Outdoor rifle or skeet shooting ranges; on premises so located as to
comply with three (3) times the distance requirement in subsection (C) of this
section, and which premises, in addition, are deemed suitable by the Governing
Body for such use, for reasons, among others, of topography, screening by
trees, or other features, and also in consideration of the present and
potential use of adjacent properties.
         Public parks, playgrounds and community centers; private recreation
areas and facilities, including country clubs, golf courses, fishing lakes and
boat docks.
         Any other use which, in the judgment of the Governing Body will not,
when located, constructed and operated as proposed, be inconsistent with the
purposes intended to be served by the provisions prescribed in this section for
the S-1 District, among others, of protecting human life, prevent material
losses and reducing the cost to the public of relief or rescue efforts
occasioned by the unwise occupancy of areas subject to floods; and which use,
at the same time, will not impair the present or potential use of adjacent
properties.
   (B)   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted
principal use in the S-1 District.
      2.   Any other accessory use that is determined by the Board of Appeals
to be necessary and incidental to any aforesaid permitted principal use and
located on the same lot therewith, but not including any permanent residence
except for a watchman or caretaker employed on the premises.
   (C)   Required Conditions: All uses, buildings or premises for which
compliance with the district requirement in this subsection is stipulated in
the foregoing subsections of this chapter, shall be distant at least two
hundred feet (200') from any lot in any R district, or any lot occupied by a
dwelling or by any school, church or institution for human care.
   (D)   Height Regulations: No nonagricultural principal structure shall
exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height, and
no accessory structure shall exceed one story or fifteen feet (15') in height,
except as provided in section
10-11-2 of this title.
   (E)   Lot Area, Frontage And Yard Requirements: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed, subject to the additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications in section
10-11-2 of this title inclusive:
 
                Lot Area Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
                                   Depth      Each
Nonresidential
uses or
structures      None     None      50 feet    20 feet         50 feet
other than
agricultural
Nonagricultural None     None      60 feet    20 feet         50 feet
residences
 
(Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-9-2: S-2 SLOPE DISTRICT:
The S-2 Slope District is designed to allow proper use of land having a cross
slope which exceeds twelve percent (12%) and to prevent encroachment into the
district which will unduly increase stormwater runoff and damage. Within the S-
2 Slope District, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Any slope area, the average cross slope of which exceeds eighteen
percent (18%) shall be subject to a special use exception which shall be in
conformity with the applicable comprehensive community plan.
   (B)   Any slope area, the average cross slope of which is less than twelve
percent (12%), shall be considered suitable for any uses permitted in an S-
1 Floodplain and Drainageway District, and shall be subject to a special use
exception, subsection
10-11-1(B) of this title.
   (C)   Any slope area, the average cross slope of which exceeds twelve
percent (12%) shall be considered to be extremely rugged and the development of
this terrain shall be limited to compatible uses as follows, and are subject to
a special use exception as provided in subsection
10-11-1(B) of this title:
      Agricultural uses as limited and defined in subsection
10-9-1(A) of this chapter.
      Building lots for one-family detached dwelling of a minimum of three (3)
acres.
      Parks, playgrounds and general community open space.
      Pedestrian easements.
      Utility easements. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-9-3: S-3 AIRPORT DISTRICT:
In the S-3 Airport District no building, structure, land or premises shall be
used and no building or structure shall be hereafter erected, constructed,
moved or altered except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Required Conditions: Aviation fields, airports, landing strips or
landing areas, provided that the following conditions have been met:
      1.   Permission of the respective owners, in the form of easements or
other suitable assignment to the owner of the airport or landing strip, of air
rights over all land in separate ownership and within the approach zones of all
runways or landing strips shall be required. Copies of such easements or
assignments of rights and an aeronautical evaluation of the proposed facility
by the Federal Aviation Agency, as required by law, shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission before a permit for establishing or enlarging a runway,
landing strip or landing area is authorized. Heliports may be permitted after
an aeronautical evaluation of the proposed facility by the Federal Aviation
Agency, as required by law, has been reviewed by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Permits: The Governing Body or duly authorized representative shall
have the power to enforce the provisions of this order. No open, vacant, or
unimproved land shall be used for any purpose other than agricultural without
first obtaining a land use permit from the Governing Body to be issued in
accordance with the terms of this title. Land use permits shall be required,
but not be limited to, the following uses:
      1.   Airports, landing strips, heliports or other landing areas.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct or establish
such a structure or to plant or replant any tree or other object of natural
growth on a landing area or within fifteen thousand feet (15,000') of the
nearest boundary of a landing area which will have or attain a height greater
than five feet (5') above ground level for each five hundred feet (500') or
fraction thereof, of the distance that such structure or growth is or will be
situated from the nearest boundary of a landing area, without first obtaining a
permit from the building inspector, the application for which permit shall
include a written statement of approval from the Federal Aviation Agency
obtained by the application after due notice to that agency. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-
1970)
10-9-4: S-4 HISTORIC BUILDINGS DISTRICT:
The S-4 Historic Buildings Districts are designed to preserve and protect
buildings, places and areas of historic and architectural interest within the
City and to prevent incompatible encroachments into the district.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: Any uses permitted in the R-2 One-Family Dwelling
District.
   (B)   Height, Lot Size, Yard Areas And Percentage Of Lot Coverage: The same
regulations shall apply as required or permitted for the R-2 One-Family
Dwelling District.
   (C)   Parking Facilities: Parking facilities shall be provided as required
or permitted in section
10-11-3 of this title.
   (D)   Special Considerations:
      1.   Within this district, no building or structure shall hereafter be
erected, reconstructed, altered or restored unless and until the application
for the building permit shall have been approved as to exterior architectural
features which are subject to public view from a public street, way or place by
the Governing Body or duly authorized representative.
      2.   No building within the historic district shall be razed, without
obtaining a permit approved by the City Council, and the Council is empowered
to refuse a permit for any structure of such architectural or historic
interest, the removal of which in the opinion of the Planning Commission would
be detrimental to the public interest of the City. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-9-5: P-1 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT 1:
   (A)   Intent: The P-1 Planned Unit Development Overlay District (PUD) is
intended to permit developments that will, over a period of time, be enhanced
by coordinated area site planning, diversified location of structures,
diversified building types, and/or mixing of compatible uses. Such developments
are intended to provide a safe and efficient system for pedestrian and vehicle
traffic; to provide attractive recreation and open spaces as integral parts of
the developments; to enable economic design in the location of public and
private utilities and community facilities; and to ensure adequate standards of
construction and planning. The P-1 Overlay District under this section will
allow for flexibility of overall development design with benefits from such
design flexibility intended to be derived by both the developer and the
community, while at the same time maintaining insofar as possible the land use
density and other standards or use requirements of lands in the vicinity of the
P-1 project. The unified and planned development of a site in a single or
corporate ownership or control or in common ownership may be permitted by the
City upon specific petition under this section and after public meeting, with
such development encompassing one or more principal uses or structures and
related accessory uses or structures when all regulations and standards as set
forth in this section have been met.
   (B)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Uses permitted in a P-1 Planned Unit Development Overlay District
shall conform to uses generally permitted in the underlying districts provided
for in this section and in place on the zoning map underlying the proposed P-
1 District. P-1 Districts may mix the uses permitted in other districts,
subject to the criteria set forth in subsection (D) of this section.
   (C)   Minimum Area Requirements:
      1.   Areas designated as Planned Unit Development Overlay Districts shall
be under single or corporate ownership or control, and shall contain a minimum
development area of:
 
Principal Uses                    Minimum Area Of P-1 Districts
Residential P-1 District          3 acres
Commercial P-1 District           5 acres
Industrial P-1 District           20 acres
Mixed Compatible Use P-1 District 20 acres
 
   (D)   Procedural Requirements
      1.   Prepetition Conference: Prior to the official submission of the
petition for the approval of a P-1 District or development of said district,
the owner or his agent making such petition shall meet with the Code
Enforcement Officer or the Plan Commission to discuss the scope and proposed
nature of the contemplated development.
      2.   Petition: Following the prepetition conference, the owner or his
agent may file a petition with the City Clerk for approval of a P-1 District.
Such petition shall be accompanied with the following information:
         (a)   A statement which sets forth the relationship of the proposed P-
1 District to the City's adopted master plan in the Illinois Route 336 corridor
plan or in the comprehensive plan, or any adopted component thereof, and the
general character of and the uses to be included in the proposed P-1 District,
including the following information:
            (1)   Total area to be included in the P-1 District, area of open
space, residential density computations, proposed number of dwelling units,
population analysis, availability of or requirements for Municipal services and
any other similar data pertinent to a comprehensive evaluation of the proposed
development.
            (2)   A general summary of the estimated value of structures and
site improvement costs, including landscaping and special features.
            (3)   A general outline of the organizational structure of a
property owner's or management's association, which may be proposed to be
established for the purpose of providing any necessary private services.
            (4)   Any proposed departures from the standards of development as
set forth in the City zoning regulations, other City regulations or
administrative rules, or other universal guidelines.
            (5)   The expected date of commencement of physical development as
set forth in the proposal.
         (b)   A general development plan including:
            (1)   A legal description of the boundaries of the subject property
included in the proposed P-1 District and its relationship to surrounding
properties.
            (2)   The location of existing and proposed public and existing
private roads, existing and proposed driveways, and existing and proposed
parking facilities.
            (3)   The size, arrangement, and location of any individual
building sites and proposed building groups on each individual site.
            (4)   The location of institutional, recreational, and open space
areas and areas reserved or dedicated for public uses, including schools,
parks, and drainageways.
            (5)   The type, size, and location of all structures.
            (6)   General landscape treatment.
            (7)   Architectural plans, elevation, and perspective drawings and
sketches illustrating the design and character of proposed structures.
            (8)   The existing and proposed location of public sanitary sewer
and water supply facilities.
            (9)   The existing and proposed location of all private utilities
or other easements.
            (10)   Characteristics of soils related to contemplated specific
uses.
            (11)   Existing topography on the site with contours at not greater
than two foot (2') intervals.
            (12)   A stormwater management plan for development of the site.
            (13)   A construction erosion control plan for the project.
            (14)   Anticipated uses of adjoining lands in regard to roads,
surface water drainage, and compatibility with existing adjacent land uses.
      3.   Referral To Plan Commission: The petition for a P-1 District shall
be referred to the Plan Commission for its review and recommendation, including
any additional conditions or restrictions which it may deem necessary or
appropriate. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
      4.   Submittal Requirements: All petitions and general development plans
shall be submitted to the Code Enforcement Officer who shall transmit all
applications and their accompanying plans to the Plan Commission for their
review. The purpose of these plans is to show all information needed to enable
the Code Enforcement Officer, Plan Commission, and the City Council to
determine if the proposed development meets the requirements of this section.
The submittal procedure is as follows: (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008; amd. 2018 Code)
         (a)   Nine (9) copies of the petition and general development plan
with all applicable information shown on the plan shall be submitted one week
prior to the Plan Commission meeting.
         (b)   If revisions are required, three (3) copies of the plan shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for final review.
         (c)   Upon approval of the general development plan, one approved plan
will be kept on file in City Hall, one plan will be on file by the Code
Enforcement Officer for field review and the final copy of the approval plan
will be returned to the developer/owner for use in the final design process.
(Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
      5.   Meeting/Public Hearing: Review of petitions can be done at a regular
meeting but rezoning to a P-1 District would require an advertised public
hearing. The Plan Commission and the City Council shall hold meetings or
advertised public hearings at their regular meetings pursuant to the
requirements for notice provided in subsection
10-3-7(K)3(g) of this title. Notice for such hearing shall include reference to
the development plans filed in conjunction with the requested P-1 District
rezoning. As soon as is practical following the meeting or hearing, the Plan
Commission shall report its findings and recommendations to the City Council
for approval. (Ord. 2011-13, 1-10-2012)
   (E)   Basis For Approval Of The Petition:
      1.   The Plan Commission in making its recommendation and the City
Council in making its determination, shall consider:
         (a)   That the proposed P-1 District is consistent in all respects to
the purpose of this section and to the spirit and intent of this section; is in
conformity with the adopted master plan or any adopted component thereof; and,
that the development would not be contrary to the general welfare and economic
prosperity of the community.
      2.   The Plan Commission shall specify lot area, width, yard, and height
requirements in the granting of a permit. Requirements may be greater or less
than those required in other districts. However, the Plan Commission shall not
grant approval for any building or structure exceeding thirty five feet (35')
in height, unless a conditional use for greater height has been granted in an
underlying zoning district.
      3.   The Plan Commission in making its recommendations and the City
Council in making its determination shall further find that:
         (a)   The proposed site shall be provided with adequate drainage
facilities for surface and storm waters.
         (b)   The proposed site shall be accessible from public roads that are
adequate to carry the traffic that can be expected to be generated by the
proposed development.
         (c)   No undue constraint or burden will be imposed on public services
and facilities, such as fire and police protection, street maintenance, and
maintenance of public areas by the proposed development.
         (d)   The streets and driveways on the site of the proposed
development shall be adequate to serve the residents of the proposed
development and shall meet the minimum standards of all applicable ordinances
or administrative regulations of the City.
         (e)   Public water and sewer facilities shall be provided.
         (f)   Natural areas such as significant woodlands, meadows, wetlands,
wildlife habitat areas, lakes, streams, and floodplains shall be protected as
"environmental corridors". Environmental corridors shall not be used in the
calculation of residential densities within a planned unit development.
         (g)   The entire tract or parcel of land to be included in a P-
1 District shall be held under single ownership, or if there is more than one
owner, the petition for such P-1 District shall be considered as one tract, lot
or parcel, and the legal description must define said P-1 District as a single
parcel, lot or tract and be so recorded with the Recorder of Deeds for Hancock
County.
      4.   That in the case of a proposed residential planned unit development
project:
         (a)   Such development will create an attractive residential
environment of sustained desirability and economic stability, including
structures in relation to terrain, consideration of safe pedestrian flow, ready
access to recreation space, and coordination with overall plans for the
community.
         (b)   The total net density within the residential planned unit
development district will be compatible with the density of development either
existing or permitted in areas adjacent to the proposed P-1 project.
         (c)   Provision has been made for the installation of adequate public
facilities and the continuing maintenance and operation of such facilities.
         (d)   Adequate, continuing fire and police protection is available.
         (e)   The population composition of the development will not have an
adverse effect upon the community's capacity to provide needed school or other
Municipal service facilities.
         (f)   Adequate guarantee is provided for permanent preservation of
open space areas as shown on the approved site plan either by private
reservation and maintenance or by dedication to the public.
      5.   That in the case of a proposed commercial planned unit development
project:
         (a)   The proposed development will be adequately served by off street
parking and truck service facilities.
         (b)   The proposed development shall be adequately provided with and
shall not impose any undue burden on public services and facilities such as
fire and police protection, street maintenance, and maintenance of public
areas.
         (c)   The locations for entrances and exits have been designated to
prevent unnecessary interference with the safe and efficient movement of
traffic on surrounding streets, and that the development will not create an
adverse effect upon the general traffic pattern of the surrounding
neighborhood.
         (d)   The architectural design, landscaping, control of lighting, and
general site development will result in an attractive and harmonious service
area compatible with and not adversely affecting the property values of the
surrounding neighborhood.
      6.   That in the case of a proposed industrial planned unit development
project:
         (a)   The operational character, physical plant arrangement, and
architectural design of buildings will be compatible with the latest in
performance standards and industrial development design and will not result in
adverse effect upon the property values of the surrounding neighborhood.
         (b)   The proposed development shall be adequately provided with and
shall not impose any undue burden on public services and facilities, such as
fire and police protection, street maintenance, and maintenance of public
areas.
         (c)   The proposed development will include adequate provisions for
off street parking and truck service areas and will be adequately served by
rail and/or arterials highway facilities.
         (d)   The proposed development is properly related to the total
transportation system of the community and will not result in an adverse effect
on the safety and efficiency of the public streets.
      7.   That in the case of a mixed use planned unit development project:
         (a)   The proposed mixture of uses produces a unified composite which
is compatible with development in the surrounding neighborhood.
         (b)   The various types of uses conform to the general requirements as
hereinbefore set forth, applicable to projects of such use and character.
         (c)   The proposed development shall be adequately provided with and
shall not impose any undue burden on public services and facilities, such as
fire and police protection, street maintenance, and maintenance of public
areas.
   (F)   Determination: The City Council, after due consideration, may deny the
petition, approve the petition as submitted, or approve the petition subject to
additional conditions and restrictions.
      The approval of a P-1 District shall be based upon and include as
conditions thereto the building, site and operational plans for the development
all as contained in the development concept plan as approved by the City
Council. The City Council may set a time schedule for the substantial
completion of a planned unit development project.
   (G)   Changes And Additions: Any subsequent change or addition to the plans
or uses shall first be submitted for approval to the Plan Commission and if in
the opinion of the Plan Commission, such change or addition constitutes a
substantial alteration of the original plan, a public meeting before the Plan
Commission shall be required and notice thereof be given pursuant to the
provisions of title 2, chapter 4 of this Code. Following the public meeting,
the Plan Commission shall recommend approval, denial, or modified approval to
the City Council.
   (H)   Subsequent Land Division: The division of any land or lands within a
P-1 District for the purpose of change or conveyance of ownership shall be
accomplished pursuant to the land division regulations of the City and when
such division is contemplated, a preliminary plat of lands to be divided shall
accompany the petition for P-1 approval.
   (I)   Development Of Existing Planned Unit Development Districts: It shall
be the policy of the City of Carthage to create P-1 Districts only in those
areas where a detailed unified development plan has been presented and
approved.
In the case of an approved P-1 District development concept plan not being
substantially completed within the time set for such substantial completion by
the City Council in its approval of same, or where approved plans have not been
implemented within twelve (12) months, the subsequent development of the P-
1 District shall require the issuance of a conditional use permit. Such
conditional use permit shall be issued only after a new petition has been filed
and approved by the Plan Commission and City Council after a new public meeting
in the manner required in this section. The City Council may set a revised time
schedule for the completion of a planned unit development project. Existing
undeveloped planned unit development districts shall be reviewed annually in
April by the Plan Commission and a report regarding the recommended disposition
of that district shall be made to the City Council with notice given to the
owner or owners of the project. The City Council may cancel its previous
approval and remove the P-1 overlay zoning for a failure to timely complete the
proposed project. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
 
Notes
1: 1. See also section
   10-3-7 of this title.
CHAPTER 10
MOBILE HOME STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Rules And Definitions
10-10-3: Mobile Home Site Standards
10-10-4: Percentage Improved Prior To Use
10-10-5: Permanent Facilities And Resident Services
10-10-6: Standards For Continuing Operations
10-10-7: Administration Procedures
10-10-8: Licenses And Permits
10-10-9: Inspection, Enforcement And Appeals
10-10-10: Design Review Standards
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide zoning procedures in the B-3 District
wherein mobile home or travel trailer use is desired in order to permit
flexibility in uses and design under conditions of approved site design and
development plans. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-2: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   The rules and definitions specified in chapter 2 of this title are
hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   The following terms, unless a contrary meaning is specifically
prescribed by the content, shall have the following meanings:
   CAMP: Any one or more of the following other than a hospital, place of
detention or school offering general instructions.
      Any area of land or water on which are located two (2) or more cabins,
tents, travel trailers, shelters, houseboats or other accommodations of a
design or character suitable for seasonal or other more or less temporary
living purposes, regardless of whether such structures or other accommodations
actually are occupied seasonally or otherwise.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY: The legally designated health authority or its authorized
representative of the community.
   LICENSE: A written license issued by the community health authority allowing
a person to operate and maintain a mobile home or mobile home park subdivisions
under the provisions of these standards and regulations.
   LOT: An area of land, whether acreage or a subdivision thereof, whereupon a
mobile home trailer may be placed.
   MOBILE HOME TRAILER: Any vehicle or mobile structure more than thirty feet
(30') long, on wheels, skids, rollers or blocks, designed to be pulled, pushed
or carried by a motor vehicle on a highway, and designed for living as a one-
family dwelling unit, complete and ready for occupancy as such except for minor
and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on permanent
foundations, connections to utilities and the like.
   MOBILE HOME TRAILER PARK SUBDIVISION: An area of land divided into two (2)
or more lots with foundations platted and laid out to provide sites for mobile
homes permanently affixed to the land for a period of time exceeding sixty (60)
days. The subdivision area shall include any building or structure, fixture or
equipment that is used or intended to be used in connection with providing that
accommodation, including provisions for sewer, water, electricity and any other
similar facilities required to permit occupancy of such mobile homes parked
thereon.
   PARK SUBDIVISION: The total acreage platted for development into a mobile
home trailer park subdivision.
   PERMANENTLY AFFIXED: A mobile home shall be deemed to be permanently affixed
to the land when, in accordance with its owner's intent, its wheels, skids,
rollers or other transporting devices have been removed and it has been so
placed upon a lot, possessing a compacted gravel or concrete slab foundation
for supporting the home, whereby it is rendered immobile and stationary.
   SITE: The total parcel of land, whether undivided acreage or a platted
subdivision or an individual lot therein, upon which a mobile home trailer may
be situated.
   TRAILER: A mobile home trailer as herein defined.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: Any vehicle or mobile structure designed for highway travel
less than thirty feet (30') long, on wheels, skids, rollers or blocks designed
to be pulled, pushed or carried by motor vehicle, and any house, car, camp car,
"piggy-back" camper, or self-propelled motor vehicle, which is designed for
sleeping or commercial purposes, and which is complete and ready for occupancy
as such except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location on jacks, connections to utilities and the like.
   TRAVEL TRAILER TRANSIENT PARK: An area of land containing two (2) or more
travel trailers or providing space where two (2) or more trailers are harbored
or parked or intended to be harbored or parked for a period of sixty (60) days
or less either free of charge or for remuneration purposes, and shall include
any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure, used or intended for use
as a part of the equipment of such park, and providing sewer, water,
electricity and other similar facilities required to permit occupancy of such
travel trailers parked thereon. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-3: MOBILE HOME SITE STANDARDS:
   (A)   Minimum Site Size:
      1.   Every mobile home trailer park subdivision shall be platted on not
less than five (5) acres of land.
      2.   Every travel trailer park shall be platted on not less than two (2)
acres of land.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Size:
      1.   Every mobile home hereafter placed in a subdivision shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet.
      2.   Every travel trailer hereafter placed in a park shall be on a lot
having an area of not less than two thousand one hundred (2,100) square feet.
   (C)   Height: No building, structure or dwelling in a mobile home
subdivision or travel trailer park shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories
or thirty five feet (35') in height.
   (D)   Yard Areas:
      1.   No mobile home shall be placed upon a park subdivision lot unless
the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such mobile
home dwellings:
         (a)   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is placed
shall have a front yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
         (b)   Side Yard: On each lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is
placed, there shall be a side yard on each side of not less than fifteen feet
(15'). The side yard for corner lots shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
         (c)   Rear Yard: Every lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is placed
shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
      2.   No travel trailer shall be placed upon a park lot unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such travel
trailer:
         (a)   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a travel trailer is to be parked
shall have a front yard of not less than eight feet (8'). No travel trailer
shall be parked in a travel trailer park closer than sixty eight feet (68') to
the center line of a major highway.
         (b)   Side Yard: On each lot upon which a travel trailer is parked
there shall be a side yard on each side thereof of not less than ten feet
(10').
         (c)   Rear Yard: Every lot upon which a travel trailer is parked shall
have a rear yard of not less than five feet (5').
   (E)   Setback From Center Line Of Street:
      1.   Every mobile home placed upon a subdivision lot which fronts upon a
major highway shall be set back from the center line of said highway a minimum
of eighty feet (80') to the building line.
      2.   Every travel trailer placed upon a park lot which fronts upon a
major highway shall be set back from the center line of said highway a minimum
of sixty feet (60') to the building line.
   (F)   Percentage Of Lot Coverage:
      1.   Each mobile home dwelling, including accessory buildings, garages
and porches, shall not cover more than seventy percent (70%) of each
subdivision lot.
      2.   Each travel trailer, including accessory buildings, garages and
driveways shall not cover more than eighty percent (80%) of each travel trailer
park lot.
   (G)   Dwelling Standards: Every mobile home dwelling hereafter placed upon a
subdivision lot shall have a total ground floor area of not less than five
hundred (500) square feet, measured from the outside of exterior walls,
including utility rooms, but excluding open porches, breezeways and garages.
   (H)   Off-Street Parking Facilities:
      1.   Two (2) parking spaces for each mobile home dwelling lot shall be
provided. No motor vehicle, parked on the mobile home lot, shall be parked
closer than three feet (3') to the mobile home, nor closer than ten feet (10')
from an adjoining mobile home.
      2.   One parking space for each travel trailer lot shall be provided.
   (I)   Screen Planting:
      1.   Mobile Home Trailer Park Subdivision: For a subdivision with the
periphery abutting a residential use, all mobile home subdivision sites shall
provide a twenty foot (20') wide planting strip, planted with trees and shrubs
at least six feet (6') high by six feet (6') deep, to provide a dense screen at
all times, which extends the length and depth of the entire subdivision.
      2.   Travel Trailer Transient Park: There shall be provided a twenty foot
(20') wide planting strip of trees and shrubs at least six feet (6') high to
provide a dense screen at all times extending the length and width of the
transient park abutting any district.
   (J)   Liquefied Petroleum Gas As Fuel: When liquefied petroleum gas is used,
the containers for such gas shall be the liquefied petroleum gas container
approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission for its intended purpose and
shall be integrally attached to the travel trailer or mobile home in a manner
as approved by the Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association or other appropriate
authority including the appropriate safety authorities and the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (K)   Fuel Oil Supply: Fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with applicable State and local codes and regulations.
All fuel oil storage containers, barrels, tanks or cylinders and piping to the
mobile home shall be securely fastened in place and protected against physical
damage.
   (L)   Natural Gas System: Natural gas piping systems shall be installed
under-ground in accordance with applicable codes and regulations and public
utility standards. Each mobile home and travel trailer lot provided with piped
gas shall have an approved manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas
outlet. The outlet shall be equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental
discharge of gas when the outlet is not in use. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-4: PERCENTAGE IMPROVED PRIOR TO USE:
   (A)   Mobile Home Trailer Park Subdivision: It shall be a condition
precedent to granting of the special use permit that at least one-third (1/3)
of the subdivision lots be completed and ready for occupancy, which completion
shall include installation of roadways, sidewalks, lighting, public utilities,
service and management buildings.
   (B)   Travel Trailer Transient Park: It shall be a condition precedent to
the granting of the special use permit that at least fifty percent (50%) of the
transient park lots be completed and ready for occupancy, which completion
shall include installation of roadways, sidewalks, lighting, public utilities,
service and management buildings. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-5: PERMANENT FACILITIES AND RESIDENT SERVICES:
The following permanent facilities shall be installed and available to and for
each mobile home and travel trailer lot:
   (A)   Streets and driveways shall be installed and paved to a minimum width
of twenty four feet (24') and conform to Municipal subdivision standards.
   (B)   Sanitary drinking water system, inspected and approved by the
Department of Health, providing adequate pressure with appropriate water
connections for domestic usage. At least one cold water supply outlet shall be
provided within three hundred feet (300') of every dependent mobile home or
travel trailer site.
   (C)   For fire protection, sanitary water under adequate pressure in
standard fire hydrants, which hydrants shall be located within four hundred
feet (400') of every individual lot within a park subdivision or transient
park. Fire extinguishers, State approved, shall be placed at locations within
two hundred feet (200') of each mobile home and travel trailer site.
   (D)   Sanitary sewage disposal system, inspected and approved by the
Department of Health, with appropriate water and odor tight sewerage
connections for mobile home or travel trailer usage. Connection between
stormwater drainage systems and sewage disposal systems shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Refuse disposal receptacles, watertight, or incinerators located
within two hundred feet (200') of each lot, as approved by the Code Enforcement
Officer. Disposal shall create neither a menace to health nor a nuisance.
   (F)   Insect and rodent control measures shall be employed to maintain
healthful and sanitary conditions.
   (G)   Public utilities, having Building Code and ordinance approved
connection boxes, including but not limited to electricity, gas and telephone.
   (H)   Management and maintenance offices including storage facilities for
grounds-keeping equipment.
   (I)   Paved parking areas for guests in a ratio of one space for every four
(4) dwelling unit lots.
   (J)   Where dependent trailers are situated within a park subdivision or
transient trailer park, a community service building shall be provided within
three hundred feet (300') of each mobile home or travel trailer site. Such
building shall be conveniently located, heated and lighted, and contain water
closets and lavatories for each sex, properly compartmented and partitioned
with a minimum width of not less than three feet (3'), hot and cold water
showers for each sex, and private dressing room compartments of not less than
three feet by four feet (3' x 4'). All floors, adequately sloped for drainage,
shall be waterproof as well as all walls which are subject to water splash.
Concrete curbing at least six inches (6") in height shall be installed
throughout the building.
   (K)   In travel trailer transient parks, the following shall be available:
      1.   Heated toilet and shower facilities for men and women in a ratio of
one unit for every fifteen (15) persons of each sex.
      2.   Cooking shelters and wood-burning stoves and fireplaces in
convenient areas within the park area; all of which must be maintained in a
sanitary condition and kept in good repair.
The following resident services may be made available to all mobile home
dwellers:
      1.   Twenty four (24) hour custodial or caretaker service.
      2.   Restaurant and/or beauty parlor within the confines of the
management office building. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-6: STANDARDS FOR CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
The following standards for continuing the operations of a mobile home trailer
park subdivision and travel trailer transient park shall be imposed upon each
owner or operator thereof:
   (A)   Register Kept: A register record shall be kept of all mobile home or
travel trailer owners or occupants situated within a park subdivision or
transient park. The register, which shall be kept within the management office,
shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of each occupant.
      2.   The name and address of each owner of each mobile home or travel
trailer and motor vehicle by which it is towed.
      3.   The make, model, year and license number of each mobile home, travel
trailer and motor vehicle.
      4.   The state, territory or country issuing such licenses.
      5.   The date of arrival and of departure.
      6.   The lot number and location within the park subdivision or transient
trailer park.
      7.   A registry of all school-age children.
The register shall be kept available at all times for inspection by law
enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose duties
necessitate the acquisition of the information contained in the register. The
register record for each occupant registered therein shall not be destroyed for
a period of six (6) years.
   (B)   Supervision: The owner or duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall
be in charge at all times to keep the park subdivision or transient park, its
facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The
attendant or caretaker shall be answerable with the owner for the violation of
any provision of these standards to which the licensee or permittee is subject.
   (C)   Suspension And Revocation Of License: Following proper notification
and adequate time for correction, the Department of Public Health may suspend
or revoke any license to maintain and operate a park subdivision or transient
park when the owner has been found to be violating any provision of these
standards.
   (D)   Exception: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the
storage of any travel trailer for any length of time when it is not used for
living or sleeping purposes.
   (E)   Posting Of License And Transfer: The license certificate and
certificate of occupancy shall be conspicuously posted in the office of or the
premises of the park subdivision or transient park at all times. Operating
licenses shall be nontransferable without the written consent of the licensor.
Each and every mobile home and travel trailer within a park subdivision or
transient park shall have displayed within it a certificate of title. In
addition, the mobile home or travel trailer owner and the park subdivision or
transient trailer park owner or operator shall comply with all other provisions
of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Law.
   (F)   School Board Report: The owner or operator shall file a report with
the local school board or district on the first days of February and September
wherein the mobile home park subdivision is located, giving the names and ages
of all school- age children living therein.
   (G)   Board Of Health Report: The owner or operator shall file a report with
the Board of Health giving the full name, age and address of every person who
is affected or suspected of being affected with any reportable or communicable
disease.
   (H)   Maintenance, Repair And Sanitation: The owner or operator shall
maintain and repair all facilities, services, roads and driveways and keep all
of same in a sanitary and safe condition within the park subdivision or
transient park. Occupants of mobile homes or travel trailers therein who
violate sanitation or safety standards or standards identified herein, or who
wilfully or maliciously damage the facilities within the park subdivision or
transient park, shall be prosecuted or ejected.
   (I)   Compliance With Regulations: The owner or operator shall comply with
all rules and regulations of the Illinois Department of Revenue. (Ord. 70-16,
10-5-1970)
10-10-7: ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES:
The divisions and allocation of land hereafter for the construction, location,
operation and expansion of both proposed and existing mobile home trailer park
subdivisions or travel trailer transient parks shall be governed by the
following procedures and the various design standards as specified in this
chapter. The design standards shall be found and determined by the Planning
Commission to be a necessary element of this chapter and essential to
accomplish the objectives of said regulations:
   (A)   General Scope Of Regulations: Approval of the commission shall be
obtained for the following:
      1.   The establishment, construction, expansion or operation of an
existing mobile home park subdivision or travel trailer transient park.
      2.   Use of any mobile home as temporary living or office space while a
building or structure is under construction.
   (B)   Procedure For Filing: The applicant shall file with the Planning
Commission a site development plan and a supplementary statement containing the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, the owner, partners,
corporate officers (including present and last occupation), the engineer/
surveyor preparing plat, and of the person proposed to supervise the facility.
      2.   The location and legal description of the tract, the boundary lines,
their bearings and distance, a small sketch indicating general vicinity,
location of adjoining streets and its relationship to the general area.
      3.   The arrangement of lots in relation to each other and interior
streets; plans and specifications of existing and proposed buildings.
      4.   Improvement plans, cross-sections and profiles for all utilities,
sewerage, streets, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection, lighting, and
parking areas proposed to be installed.
      5.   Date, north point, scale not greater than two hundred feet (200') to
the inch and gross and net acreage.
      6.   Freedom of the site from objectionable smoke, noxious odors and
unusual noise.
      7.   Suitability of the site for the purpose intended insofar as soil,
groundwater level, drainage and topography are concerned.
      8.   Contour of five foot (5') intervals or less, if required.
      9.   Proposed and existing facilities for a sanitary community building,
where needed, including a description of toilets, urinals, sinks, wash basins,
slop sinks, showers and drains.
      10.   Calendar months during which the applicant will operate the mobile
home park subdivision or travel trailer transient park.
      11.   A statement of public and private fire-fighting facilities
available.
   (C)   Decisions And Appeals: Following a final decision of the Planning
Commission, an appeal may be made to the Board of Appeals, where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination in the
enforcement of this title. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-8: LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   (A)   Construction Permit And Original Operating License Requirements: It
shall be unlawful for any person to park, place, construct or maintain any
mobile home or travel trailer, mobile home park subdivision or travel trailer
transient park upon any acreage, lot, premises, area or tract, without first
obtaining a construction permit from the building inspector and/or an original
operating license from the Department of Public Health or the County Health
Unit of the Illinois Department of Public Health, as specified in section
10-13-1 of this title.
      1.   Provided, however, that any mobile home situated within the County
but not within a mobile home park subdivision upon the effective date hereof
shall, if in conformity with all sewer, water, sanitation and health ordinances
of the State and County, be privileged to remain at its present location but
may not be removed to another location except within the conformity of these
standards. But, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the replacement of
an existing trailer with an existing trailer, even if larger than an existing
trailer, or the enlargement of an existing trailer, provided the yard
requirements contained in this chapter are met. Any mobile home so situated but
not in conformity with said requirements shall be brought into compliance with
them on or before two (2) years or shall be removed to a mobile home trailer
park subdivision.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to place any mobile home not permanently
affixed within any mobile home trailer park subdivision.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful to occupy
for sleeping or other resident purposes any mobile home or travel trailer not
permanently affixed to the land unless it conforms to these standards.
   (B)   Certificate Of Occupancy: Contemporaneous with the above permit and
license requirements, the applicant shall fulfill the requirements for
obtaining a certificate of occupancy, as specified in section
10-13-2 of this title. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-9: INSPECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS:
The Code Enforcement Officer shall inspect park subdivisions and transient
parks at least once a year, and shall have the power and authority to enter
upon the premises at any time for the purpose of enforcing the provisions
relative to health, sanitation, water supply, sewage, garbage and waste
disposal. Enforcement, violations, penalties and appeals procedures are
governed by chapters 15 and 16 of this title. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
10-10-10: DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS:
   (A)   General Design Standards: The proposed site development plan, together
with the required statement of supplementary information hereinabove specified,
shall be studied by the Planning Commission and the commission shall determine
whether the proposed site development plan meets the following specified
conditions:
      1.   Such site development plan shall be laid out and developed as a
unit, in accordance with an integrated overall design.
      2.   The location and arrangement for buildings, parking areas, walks,
lighting and appurtenant facilities shall be adjusted to the surrounding land
uses and any part of the site not used for buildings or other structures, or
for parking, or for roads or accessways, or recreation purposes, shall be
landscaped with grass, trees and shrubs.
      3.   No signs or displays or advertising of merchandise for sale or
services offered in service shops shall be visible from outside of the building
or in the open area.
      4.   Reasonable additional requirements as to landscaping, lighting,
screening, accessways, building setbacks and other site standards may be
imposed by the Planning Commission for the protection of all residential
property. Sanitary conditions as influenced by topography and drainage factors,
shall be controlled so as to prevent the unhealthy accumulation of waters,
natural or waste, upon the site.
      5.   The Planning Commission shall determine that the proposed site
development plan is consistent with good planning practice, consistent with
good site planning, can be operated in a manner that is not detrimental to
permitted uses in the surrounding area and is designed to promote the general
welfare of the area.
      6.   Additions, alterations and expansions of mobile homes and travel
trailers shall be completed with fire-resistant materials and be in compliance
with existing Building Codes.
   (B)   Performance Standards To Be Considered: The following performance
standards for subdivisions and their design shall be developed as follows:
      1.   Relation To Lot: There shall be private open areas on the lot
related appropriately to its functional areas. The lot shall be so shaped in
scale as to provide for reasonable alternatives for home placements. Moving the
mobile home onto the lot must, of course, be possible, but in subdivisions the
amount of movement shall be limited. In subdivisions, provisions for
positioning of the unit on the lot and for moving it out are only incidental to
the total subdivision design. Location of drives, parking areas, carports and
garages must be on individual mobile home lots or in the appropriate area. The
parking areas must be easy and safe for entrance and convenience from all
directions within the subdivision and from the street or highway. Driveways and
car shelters shall not be located to interfere with desirable views from the
mobile home or from important open areas on the site.
      2.   Relation Of Lots To Each Other: The mobile home as well as
functional areas on individual lots shall complement and supplement those on
adjacent lots. Open areas shall flow onto open areas enhancing primary views.
Areas on one lot where it is desirable to enclose with structures, vegetated
screening or fences shall adjoin similar areas on neighboring lots. "Fronting"
to the inside of a subdivision block has the definite advantages or providing a
"view potential", and providing a play area for children. Facing the mobile
home groupings inward improves the views, unifies pedestrian ways and
interrelates streets, drives, car storage and garbage and trash pick-up
functions.
         Interior areas within the mobile home groupings shall be designed to
encourage neighborliness. Inter-block arrangements shall include easy access
from the entrances of mobile homes in the grouping.
      3.   General Subdivision Pattern Relation Of Elements: The general
subdivision, built from mobile home groupings, shall fit topography,
requirements for circulation, and requirements for provision of community
facilities and utilities. Areas for churches, schools, major parks and
community facilities shall be located appropriately with respect to the
population to be served. As appropriate, residential areas shall merge into or
be insulated from areas devoted to other purposes. They shall be insulated from
heavy traffic, concentration of parking, noise, lights, commercial and
industrial activities. They shall merge with parks or suitable areas.
         The street pattern shall serve, not shape, the lots in the
subdivision. Lands devoted to streets shall be held to a minimum compatible
with performance of street-related functions. Minor streets shall feed at well-
spaced intervals and well-designed intersections into collector streets and
arteries for fast-moving traffic.
         General site planning shall adapt to individual site conditions, the
type of market to be served, reflect advances in site planning techniques, and
be adapted to the trends and designs of the mobile home trailer. A site plan
which conforms to and preserves terrain, existing trees, shrubs and rock
formation is highly preferred.
   (C)   Conditions Of Approval: The proposed site development plan for a
mobile home trailer park subdivision or travel trailer transient park shall be
studied by the Planning Commission and must be found to conform to the
specified minimum site standards, the requirements for utilities, permanent
facilities and resident services and the design review standards as specified
herein. The Planning Commission must make a determination that the proposed
site development plan meets all of the preconditions and design standards in
this report prior to the issuance of a building permit by the Code Enforcement
Officer, and that all of the required facilities and utilities have been
installed by the park subdivision or transient trailer park developer prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 70-16, 10-5-1970)
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Special Use Exceptions, Requirements And Procedure
10-11-2: Additional Height, Area And Yard Regulations
10-11-3: Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements
10-11-1: SPECIAL USE EXCEPTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE:
   (A)   The special exceptions listed in the following table, and their
accessory buildings and uses may be permitted by the Planning Commission and
Corporate Authorities in the districts indicated therein, in accordance with
the procedure set forth in this section and the requirements listed herein.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit for a special use
exception by the Code Enforcement Officer, it shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for investigation as to the manner in which the proposed location
and character of the special use exception will affect the applicable
Comprehensive Land Use Plan and how the standards herein adopted are applied.
The Planning Commission shall report the results of its study to the Corporate
Authorities within sixty (60) days following receipt of the application. If no
such report has been filed as aforesaid within this time period, the Corporate
Authorities are permitted to proceed to process the application.
      A fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) shall be paid to the City Clerk at
the time the application is filed, and an additional fee of fifteen dollars
($15.00) shall be paid to the Clerk prior to the time publication of "Notice of
Public Hearing" is ordered by the Corporate Authorities. All fees received
hereunder by the Clerk shall be paid over to the City to the credit of the
General Fund.
      Within sixty (60) days of the receipt of an application for a permit for
a special use exception, or upon receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission, the Corporate Authorities shall cause a public hearing to be held
before the Planning Commission in relation thereto after fifteen (15) days'
notice thereof has been given in a newspaper of general circulation within the
City.
      The hearing shall be held at a regular meeting of the Planning Commission
and the notice thereof shall contain the particular location for which the
special use exception is requested as well as a brief statement of what the
proposed special use consists.
      Within ten (10) days following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall
file a report of the hearing and its recommendations relative to the
application with the Corporate Authorities.
SPECIAL USE EXCEPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
 District(s) In Which Use May Be Permitted Requirement Designation
                          District(s) In Which Use   Requirement Designation
                          May Be Permitted
Airport, heliport         A-1, S-3                   b6, g, h2, j1, k1, l2, n2,
                                                     i2, p, r1, s, t, u2, v, w
Artificial lakes of 1 or  All districts              i1, j2, p, r1, u1, w
more acres
Billboards                A-1, B-3, I-1, I-2         p
Crematory or cemetery     A-1, all R districts, I-1  b11, c2, p, q, r1, v, w
Fire station              All R districts, B-1, B-2, b4, c11, r1, s, t, v
                          B-3
Greenhouse, commercial    A-1, R-1, I-1              b4, c6, f2, h1, k7, m4,
                                                     n1, r1, v, w
Hospital or sanatorium    A-1, all R districts       b7, c6, g, h5, j1, k9, l2,
                                                     m5, n1, p, s, t, v
                                                     a1, b10, c7, d3, g, h3,
Industrial Park I-1, I-2  I-1, I-2                   j2, k10, l2, m6, n2, o, p,
                                                     q, r1, s, t, v, w
Kindergarten or day       A-1, all R districts       b3, c8, f3, h1, i3, j1,
nursery                                              k12, r1, v
Library                   All R districts, B-2       b6, c6, k29, l2, m1, r1, v
Other public buildings,   B-2                        b6, c6, h1, k30, m1, r1,
City Hall, courthouse                                s, t
Outdoor commercial                                   c4, d1, g, h1, i1, j3,
recreational enterprise   A-1, B-3, I-1, S-1         k14, l2, n1, p, r2, s, t,
                                                     v, w
Outdoor theater           A-1, B-3, I-1              c6, i6, k11, p, r1, s, t,
                                                     v, w
Power transmission line   All districts              p
Practice golf-driving     A-1, I-1, S-1              c6, i7, j3, k16, l2, r1, v
range
Private recreational      A-1, all R districts, S-1, c4, g, h1, j3, k2, l2, r1,
development               S-2, B-3                   v, w
Produce or stockyard                                 b10, c7, d3, e, h1, i8,
terminal, wholesale       A-1, B-3, I-1, I-2         j1, k11, l4, m3, n2, p,
                                                     r1, s, t, v, w
Public or commercial                                 b11, c11, e, k19, r1, u1,
sewage or garbage         I-1, I-2, S-1              v, w
disposal plant
Public or employee off-   All districts              b2, p, r1, s, t, v, x, y
street parking areas
Public park or public     All districts              c4, g, h1, j2, k21, l2, t,
recreation facilities                                v, w
Public utility substation
or exchange including     All districts              c1, g, j4, k18, r1, v
telephone exchange
Radio or television tower A-1, I-1, I-2, S-1         k19, p, r1, v
Railroad right-of-way and
uses essential to         All districts              h1, k20, r1, v
railroad operations
Riding stable             A-1, R-1, I-1, I-2         b5, c10, h1, j1, k21, m1,
                                                     r1, v, w
Service station           A-1, B-3, I-1              a1, b4, e, r2, s, t
Shopping center           B-3                        a2, b7, g, j1, k23, i3,
                                                     m3, n1, o, p, s, t, u1, v
Storage and distribution
facilities, inflammable
liquids and gases,        A-1, B-3, I-1, I-2         a1, b6, e, r1, s, t
chemicals and liquid
fertilizers
Trailer (mobile home)     A-1, B-3                   p, u3
park or court
Truck freight terminal    B-3, I-1, I-2              c1, e, j1, k25, l4, n2, p,
                                                     r1, s, t, v, w
 
   NOTE: Use of # symbol in the following indicates that the requirements of
the district apply to the district where located.
a. Classification of use permitted:
  1.  Light Industrial.
  2.  Local Business.
b. Minimum lot area:
  1.  #.
  2.  1,500 square feet.
  3.  110 square feet per child.
  4.  25,000 square feet.
  5.  20,000 square feet plus 5,000 square feet per horse over 4 horses.
  6.  1 acre.
  7.  5 acres.
  8.  5 acres including 2,500 square feet per mobile home stand.
  9.  6 acres.
  10. 20 acres.
  11. 40 acres.
  12. 80 acres.
  13. 320 acres.
  14. 2 times requirement for single-family dwelling.
  15. 2 acres.
c. Minimum yards (feet):
 
 Front Side (Each) Rear
    Front Side (Each)            Rear
1.  #     #                      #
2.  #     50                     50
3.  #     10                     30
4.  #     40                     40
5.  #     -                      -
6.  100   40                     40
7.  100   Abutting Residential = 75
          Abutting Other Use =   35
8.  #     20                     #
9.  150   150                    150
10. 100   100                    100
11. 300   300                    300
d. Building setback from center line of interior road:
  1.  40 feet.
  2.  50 feet.
  3.  85 feet.
e. Use permitted not closer than 300 feet to a residential use.
f. Minimum gross floor area of principal building (square feet):
  1.  #.
  2.  Over 1,000.
  3.  Determined by number of children to be accommodated.
  4.  400.
  5.  2 times single-family dwelling.
  6.  672.
g. Plan of landscape development to be submitted with application.
h. Maximum height of structure (feet):
  1.  #.
  2.  As required by appropriate State or Federal agency.
  3.  Same as Light Industrial.
  4.  45.
  5.  70.
  6.  25.
i. Fence:
  1.  6-foot wire mesh where accessible to the public.
  2.  6-foot wire mesh when located at ground level.
  3.  4-foot wire mesh around play area.
  4.  Solid wall or solid painted fence 8 feet high.
  5.  4-foot wire mesh abutting residential use.
  6.  Painted board fence 8 feet high.
  7.  Adequate to protect abutting use.
  8.  6-foot wire mesh.
  9.  6-foot solid painted for refuse dump.
  10. 6-foot wire mesh abutting residential use.
j. Screen planting where abutting residential use (tight screen, effective at
   all times):
  1.  6-foot height by 6-foot width.
  2.  25 feet abutting residential district or use.
  3.  8-foot height by 6-foot width.
  4.  Adequate to screen power substation from street view.
  5.  7-foot high along streets for refuse dump.
k. Parking spaces:
  1.  1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 4 seats in waiting room.
  2.  1 per 2 customers or members.
  3.  1 per 2 employees plus 3 per doctor.
  4.  1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 6 students.
  5.  30.
  6.  1 per 3 employees per shift.
  7.  1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 125 square feet of sales area.
  8.  1 additional.
  9.  1 per 4 beds plus 1 per doctor plus 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per
       hospital vehicle.
  10. 1 per 2 employees on largest shift.
  11. 1 per 2 employees.
  12. 1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 5 children to be accommodated.
  13. 1 per 2 employees plus 1 per mobile home stand.
  14. 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 500 square feet of use area.
  15. 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 10 inmates at estimated capacity.
  16. 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per driving tee.
  17. 1 per camp site and 1 per cabin.
  18. Telephone exchange, 1 per employee.
  19. 1 per employee per shift.
  20. 1 per 2 employees where headquartered.
  21. 1 per 5,000 square feet.
  22. 1.
  23. 1 per 60 square feet of sales area.
  24. 3 per 4 employees plus 1 per 4 seats.
  25. 1 per 2 employees plus 4 for customers.
  26. 1 per employee plus 1 per sleeping accommodation.
  27. 2.
  28. 1 per employee plus 1 for each 6 seats in main auditorium.
  29. 1 per 30 square feet of use area.
  30. 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 150 square feet.
l. Distance of parking area from residential use (feet):
  1.  10.
  2.  25.
  3.  50.
  4.  100.
  5.  300.
m. Number of loading and unloading berths (should not face on bordering
   highway):
  1.  1.
  2.  2.
  3.  Per development plan.
  4.  15,000 square feet - 1; over 15,000 square feet - 2.
  5.  Up to 200 beds - 1; 200 to 500 beds - 2; over 500 beds - 3.
       15,000 square feet or less - 1; 15,001 to 40,000 square feet - 2; 40,001
  6.  to 100,000 square feet - 3; each additional 40,000 square feet - 1
       additional.
n. Distance of loading and unloading berth from residential use (feet):
  1.  50.
  2.  100.
  3.  300.
o. Plat approved by the commission to be submitted with application.
p. Development plan to be submitted with application.
q. Covenant by owners to perpetuate maintenance and approve future
   improvements.
r. Maximum number of principal entrances from major thoroughfare:
  1.  1.
  2.  2.
s. Acceptable relationship to major thoroughfare.
t. Thoroughfares must be adequate to carry additional traffic engendered by
   use.
u. Other authority approval required:
  1.  State Board of Health.
  2.  Aeronautics Commission.
  3.  Special ordinance of Governing Body.
v. Outdoor artificial lighting should be approved by the commission.
w. Disposal of liquid and other wastes should meet the approval of the
   pertinent health authorities.
x. No sales, dead storage, repair work or dismantling on the lot.
   Except for approved exits and entrances, a masonry wall 4-feet in height and
y. 6-inches thick erected at required front line of building and may be
   required along boundaries of parking area as determined by the commission
   for the protection of residentially zoned or used property.
 
On receipt of the Planning Commission's report and recommendations or after the
lapse of sixty (60) days from the date of application, the Corporate
Authorities shall conduct a hearing at their next regular meeting, and upon an
affirmative finding of the Planning Commission's recommendations and that:
      1.   The proposed special use exception is to be located in a district
wherein such use may be permitted, and
      2.   The requirements set forth in subsection (A) of this section for
such special use exception will be met, and
      3.   The special use exception is consistent with the spirit, purpose and
intent of the applicable land use plan, will not substantially and permanently
injure the appropriate use of neighboring property and will serve the public
convenience and welfare,
the City may order the Code Enforcement Officer to issue a zoning certificate
for the special use exception.
   (C)   An existing lawful use which is listed herein as a special use
exception, and which is located in a district in which such special use
exception may be permitted, shall be considered a conforming use, and shall not
be required to apply for a permit as a special use exception.
   (D)   Any expansion of such special use exception involving the enlargement
of the buildings, structures and land area devoted to such use shall be subject
to the procedure described in this section.
   (E)   If the nature of the special use exception involves more than one of
those listed in subsection (A) of this section, the applicant may apply for a
permit for the special use exception which is most closely related to the
primary use; provided that the requirements of all related uses are met. (Ord.
69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-11-2: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT, AREA AND YARD REGULATIONS:
The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this section qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this title:
   (A)   Additional Height Regulations:
      1.   Single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings may be increased in
height by not more than ten feet (10') when the side and rear yards are
increased over the yard requirements of the district in which they are located
by not less than ten feet (10') each, but they shall not exceed three (3)
stories in height.
      2.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers and spires, radio towers or necessary mechanical
appurtenances, may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or future
ordinances of the Governing Body.
   (B)   Additional Area Regulations:
      1.   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used for dwelling purposes unless the main building on the
lot is also being used for dwelling purposes.
      2.   More than one industrial, commercial, multiple dwelling or
institutional building may be erected upon a single lot or tract, but the yards
and open spaces required around the boundaries of the lot or tract shall not be
encroached upon by any such buildings, nor shall there be any change in the
intensity of use requirements.
When more than one multiple dwelling building is erected upon a single lot or
tract, the minimum distances between main buildings shall be the following:
         (a)   Front to front, seventy feet (70'); front to rear, sixty feet
(60').
         (b)   Side to side, one-half (1/2) the height of the taller building
but not less than twenty feet (20').
         (c)   Front to side or rear to side, the height of the taller building
but not less than thirty feet (30').
         (d)   Rear to rear, fifty feet (50').
      3.   Where an open space is more than fifty percent (50%) surrounded by
buildings, the minimum width of the open space shall be thirty feet (30') for
one-story buildings, forty feet (40') for two-story buildings and fifty feet
(50') for three- story buildings.
      4.   All distance requirements and buffer area or screening requirements
established for the protection of R districts shall be applicable to any
trailer (mobile home) court existing or hereafter established.
   (C)   Additional Yard Regulations:
      1.   In computing the depth of a rear yard, where such yard opens onto an
alley, one-half (1/2) of the alley width may be included as a portion of the
rear yard.
      2.   No accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building may
be built in any yard but a rear yard and shall be at least five feet (5') from
the rear lot line. An accessory building which is not a part of the main
building shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the required rear
yard.
      3.   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed, except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for the
ordinary projections of skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental
features projecting not to exceed twelve inches (12"). This requirement shall
not prevent the construction of fences not exceeding eight feet (8') in height,
except on that portion of lots within thirty feet (30') of the intersection of
two (2) or more streets.
      4.   Open, or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways
and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than
five feet (5') and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues may be
permitted by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      5.   For the purposes of side yard requirements, a two-family dwelling
shall be considered as one building occupying a single lot.
      6.   An open unenclosed porch not more than one story in height or paved
terrace may project into the required front yard for a distance not exceeding
ten feet (10'). An enclosed vestibule containing not more than forty (40)
square feet may project into the required front yard for a distance not to
exceed four feet (4').
      7.   Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features which
do not extend more than three feet (3') above the floor level of the first
(ground) story may project into a required yard, provided these projections be
distant at least two feet (2') from the adjacent side lot line.
      8.   When forty percent (40%) of a frontage is developed with two (2) or
more buildings, then the depth of the front yards heretofore established shall
be adjusted in the following manner:
         (a)   When the building furthest from the street provides a front yard
no more than ten feet (10') deeper than the building closest to the street,
then the average depth of the front yard for such frontage shall be the minimum
depth of front yard for new buildings in such block.
         (b)   When the foregoing subsection is not the case and the lot is
within one hundred feet (100') of an existing building on each side, excluding,
however, buildings on corner lots which front upon the intersecting street,
then the depth of the front yard is determined by a line drawn from the closest
front corners of these two (2) adjacent buildings.
         (c)   When neither subsection (C)8(a) nor (C)8(b) of this section is
the case and the lot is within one hundred feet (100') of an existing building
on one side only, excluding, however, buildings on corner lots which front upon
the intersecting street, then the depth of the front yard is the same as that
of the existing adjacent building.
      9.   In all districts a triangular space must be maintained at the street
corner of a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the
heights of three feet (3') and twelve feet (12') above the established street
grade. The street grade is measured at the intersection of the center lines of
the intersecting street pavements, and the triangular space is determined by a
diagonal line connecting two (2) points measured fifteen feet (15') equidistant
from the intersection of the property lines or the property lines extended on
the corner of the lot using each of the street right-of-way lines.
      10.   In single-family dwelling districts, when eighty percent (80%) of
the frontage of a block on both sides of the street between two (2)
intersecting streets or between an intersecting street and a cul-de-sac has
been developed with main buildings and accessory buildings with side yards less
than that required by the dwelling district in which said property is situated,
then the side yard requirements for any main building or accessory buildings in
said block shall be the average side yard of all parcels of property in said
block rather than the side yard set forth in the dwelling district in which
said parcel of property is situated. In determining the existing side yard of
any developed parcel, in order to compute the average herein required, the side
yard of the main building on any developed parcel shall be used except that
when an accessory building exists with a smaller side yard than the main
building has, the side yard shall be taken as being the average between the
side yard of the main building and the side yard of the accessory building.
(Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-11-3: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   General Provisions:
      1.   Procedure: An application for a building permit for a new or
enlarged building, structure, or use shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn
to scale, and fully dimensioned showing any off- street parking or loading
facilities to be provided in compliance with the requirements of this title.
      2.   Extent Of Control: The off-street parking and loading requirements
herein shall apply as follows:
         (a)   All buildings and structures erected and all land uses shall
provide accessory off-street parking or loading facilities as required
hereinafter for the use thereof.
         (b)   When a building or structure erected or enlarged prior to or
after the effective date hereof shall undergo a decrease in number of dwelling
units, gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees, or other unit
of measurement specified hereinafter for required off-street parking or loading
facilities, and further, when said decrease would result in a requirement for
fewer total off-street parking or loading spaces through application of the
provisions of these regulations, off- street parking and loading facilities may
be reduced accordingly, provided that existing off-street parking or loading
facilities are so decreased only when the facilities remaining would at least
equal or exceed the off-street parking or loading requirements resulting from
application of the provisions of these regulations to the entire building or
structure as modified.
         (c)   When a building or structure undergoes any increase in number of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter for required off-street parking or loading
facilities, and further when the increase will result in a requirement for
additional total off-street parking or loading spaces through application of
the provisions of this title, parking and loading facilities shall be increased
so that the facilities will at least equal or exceed the off-street parking or
loading requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this title
to the entire building or structure as modified.
      3.   Existing Off-Street Parking And Loading Spaces: Accessory off-
street parking and loading spaces in existence on the effective date hereof may
not be reduced in number unless already exceeding the requirements of this
section for equivalent new construction; in which event, said spaces shall not
be reduced below the number required herein for such equivalent new
construction.
      4.   Schedule Of Requirements:
         (a)   Tables For Required Off-Street Parking And Loading: Requirements
governing the number and location of off-street parking and off-street loading
facilities in relation to the use of property are hereinafter established. The
off-street parking and loading requirements for any use not specified herein
shall be the same as for similar specified use, as determined below.
         (b)   Floor Area: The term "floor area" as employed in this section in
the case of office, merchandising, or service types of use shall mean the gross
floor area of a building or structure used or intended to be used for service
to the public as customers, patrons, clients, patients or tenants, including
areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of
merchandise.
         "Floor area" for the purpose of this section, shall not include any
area used for:
            (1)   Storage accessory to the principal use of a building.
            (2)   Incidental repairs.
            (3)   Stairways and elevators.
            (4)   Show windows.
            (5)   Restrooms.
            (6)   Utilities.
            (7)   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms.
   (B)   Additional Regulations; Parking:
      1.   Use Of Off-Street Parking Facilities: Off-street parking facilities
accessory to residential use and developed in any residential district in
accordance with the requirements of this section shall be used solely for the
parking of passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles of not more than five
(5) ton GVW owned by occupants of the dwelling structures to which such
facilities are accessory or by guests of said occupants.
      2.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off-street parking facilities for
different buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided
collectively in any zoning district in which separate off-street parking
facilities for each constituent use would be permitted, provided that the total
number of spaces so located together are not less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each use and not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
lot on which the main building or use to be served is located.
In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the same lot
with the building or use served, or where such spaces are collectively or
jointly provided and used, a written agreement thereto assuring their retention
for such purposes, shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties
concerned, approved as to form and execution by the City Attorney or appointed
legal advisor, and shall be filed with the application for a building permit.
      3.   Written Agreement For Joint Parking: Not more than fifty percent
(50%) of the parking spaces required for: a) theaters, and places of amusement,
and up to one hundred percent (100%) of the parking spaces required for a
church or school may be provided and used jointly by b) banks, offices, retail
stores, repair shops, service establishments and similar uses not normally
open, used or operated during the same hours as those listed in item a of this
subsection; provided, however, that written agreement, assuring the retention
for such purpose, shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties
concerned, approved as to form and execution by the City Attorney and shall be
filed with the application for a building permit.
      4.   Control Of Off-Site Facilities: When required accessory off- street
parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot on which the
principal use served is located, they shall be in the same possession, either
by deed or long-term lease, as the property occupied by such principal use, and
the owner shall be bound by covenants filed on record in the Office of the City
Clerk, requiring the owner and his heirs and assigns to maintain the required
number of off-street parking spaces during the existence of the principal use.
      5.   Permitted Districts For Accessory Parking: Accessory parking
facilities provided elsewhere than on the same zoning lot with the principal
use served in accordance with the requirements below, may be located in any
zoning district except as follows:
(a) No parking facilities accessory to a business or manufacturing use shall be
located as a residential district where authorized by the Corporate Authorities
as hereinafter prescribed.
      6.   Nonresidential Parking In Residential Districts: Accessory off-
street parking facilities serving nonresidential uses of property may be
permitted in any R district, when authorized by the Corporate Authorities after
review and study by the Planning Commission, subject to the following
requirements in addition to all other relevant requirements:
(a) The parking lot shall be accessory to, and for use in connection with, one
or more nonresidential establishments located in adjoining districts or in
connection with one or more existing professional or institutional office
buildings or institutions, if the parking lot proposed is within three hundred
feet (300') of the nonresidential use which it is to serve.
(b) The parking lot shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles or commercial vehicles of not more than five (5) tons GVW.
(c) No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be conducted on the
parking lot.
(d) No sign of any kind other than signs designating entrances, exits and
conditions of use, shall be maintained on the parking lot, and shall not exceed
twenty (20) square feet in area.
(e) The parking lot may be open from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. and shall be closed at all other times; provided, however, that
when supervised by one or more full-time attendants, the parking lot may be
kept open until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. Parking lot lights shall be
turned off when the lot closes.
(f) Each entrance to and exit from the parking lot shall be at least twenty
feet (20') distant from any adjacent property located in any residential
district, except where ingress and egress to the parking lot is provided from a
public alley or public way separating the residential areas from the proposed
parking lot.
(g) In addition to the foregoing requirements, such parking lots shall conform
to any further requirements and conditions as may be prescribed by the
Corporate Authorities for the protection of properties adjacent to and in the
vicinity of the proposed parking lot.
      7.   Design And Maintenance:
(a) Parking Space; Description: A required off-street parking space shall be an
area of not less than two hundred (200) square feet nor less than ten feet
(10') wide by twenty feet (20') long measured perpendicularly to the sides of
the parking space exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or
office and work areas, accessible from streets or alleys and to be used for the
storage or parking of passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles under one
and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity. Aisles between vehicular parking spaces
shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in width when serving automobiles
parked at a forty five degree (45°) angle in one direction nor less than twenty
five feet (25') in width when serving automobiles parked perpendicularly.
(b) Measurement Of Space: When determination of the number of required off-
street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and fractions
over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one parking space.
(c) Access: Parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or alley in such a manner as will least interfere
with the movement of traffic and so designed as to permit adequate maneuvering
area for vehicles to turn around where only one entry or exit is provided in
order that no backing of vehicles into the street is required. No driveway or
curb cut in any district shall exceed twenty five feet (25') in width.
(d) Signs: No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within any
residential district, except such as may be necessary for the orderly use of
the parking facilities.
(e) Striping: All parking spaces shall be properly marked by durable paint in
stripes a minimum of four inches (4") wide and extending the length of the
parking space.
(f) Required Setbacks: No parking space nor portion thereof established on the
same zoning lot with a building shall be located within a required front yard.
No parking spaces nor portion thereof established on a zoning lot without a
building shall be located closer to any street line than the established
building line on adjacent properties nor closer than the front yard setback
required for the district in which the parking lot is located. Further, any
wall, fence or hedge developed around any parking area shall be subject to the
front yard setback requirements of this title in the same manner as a building
or structure. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
(g) Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas, except those accessory to
single-family dwellings or parking areas providing space for ten (10) or less
vehicles shall be improved with a compacted macadam base, not less than four
inches (4") thick, surface with not less than one and one-half inches (11/2")
of asphaltic concrete or some other comparable all-weather dustless material.
Off-street parking areas providing for parking spaces for ten (10) or less
vehicles, except those accessory to single- family dwellings, shall be improved
with a compacted crushed rock base of not less than six inches (6") thick.
(Ord. 82-18, 2-8-1983)
(h) Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area shall
be so arranged as to reflect the light away from all adjoining properties.
(Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
(i) Stormwater: Adequate stormwater drainage facilities shall be installed in
order to insure that stormwater does not flow onto abutting property or
abutting sidewalks in such a way or quantity that pedestrians using the
sidewalk would be detrimentally affected or inconvenienced. The Codes
Enforcement Officer shall approve all such facilities. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970;
amd. 2018 Code)
   (C)   Location Of Parking Areas:
      1.   Extent Of Control: Off-street automobile parking facilities shall be
located as hereinafter specified; where a distance is specified, such distance
shall be walking distance measured from the nearest point of the parking area
to the nearest entrance of the building that the parking area is required to
serve.
(a) For one- and two-family dwellings, on the same lot with the building they
are required to serve.
(b) For three- and four-family dwellings, not over two (2) stories in height,
row dwellings, not over one and one-half (11/2) stories in height, on the same
lot or parcel of land as the building they are required to serve. For the
purpose of this requirement, a group of such uses constructed and maintained
under a single ownership or management shall be assumed to be on a single lot
or parcel of land.
(c) For apartment houses containing four (4) or more dwelling units on the same
lot or parcel of land as the building they are required to service, or on a
separate lot or parcel of land not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
nearest entrance to the main building being serviced, provided the lot or
parcel of land selected for the parking facilities is located in a multiple-
family district or a less restricted district.
(d) For clubs, hospitals, sanitariums, orphanages, homes for the aged,
convalescent homes and for other similar uses, the off- street parking
facilities required shall be on the same lot or parcel of land as the main
building or buildings being served, or upon properties contiguous to the zoning
lot upon which is located the building or buildings they are intended to serve.
(e) For uses other than those specified above, off-street parking facilities
shall be provided on the same lot or parcel of land as the main building being
served, or on a separate lot or parcel of land not over one thousand feet
(1,000') from any entrance of the main building measured from the nearest point
of the parking area, provided the separate lot or parcel of land intended for
the parking facilities is located in the same district as the principal
permitted use or in a less restricted district. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
   (D)   Schedule Of Off-Street Parking Requirements:
One and two-family dwellings            1 parking space for each family
                                        dwelling unit, behind the building line
Three or more family dwelling           1 1/2 parking spaces for each family
                                        dwelling unit
                                        1 parking space for every 5 customers
Bowling alleys, recreation centers,     computed on the basis of maximum
swimming pools, skating rinks and other servicing capacity at any one time plus
recreation and amusement facilities     1 additional space for every 2 persons
                                        regularly employed on the premises
                                        1 parking space for every 50 square
Club houses and permanent meeting       feet of aggregate floor area in the
places of veterans, business, civic,    auditorium, assembly hall and dining
fraternal, labor and similar            room of such building plus 1 additional
organizations                           space for every 2 persons regularly
                                        employed on the premises
                                        Parking or storage space for all
                                        vehicles used directly in the conduct
Funeral homes and undertaking           of the business plus 1 parking space
establishments                          for every 2 persons regularly employed
                                        on the premises and 1 space for every 4
                                        seats in the auditorium or chapel of
                                        such establishment
                                        1 parking space for each bed intended
Hospitals                               for patients, excluding bassinets, plus
                                        1 per doctor plus 1 per 3 employees
                                        plus 1 for hospital vehicle
House trailers (mobile homes)           1 parking space for each trailer used
                                        for dwelling or sleeping purposes
                                        Parking or storage space for all
                                        vehicles used directly in the conduct
                                        of such business plus 3 parking spaces
Indoor retail businesses                for the first 1,000 square feet of
                                        total area and 1 additional space for
                                        every additional 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
                                        Parking or storage space for all
                                        vehicles used directly in the conduct
Industrial plants and facilities        of such industrial use plus 1 parking
                                        space for every 2 employees on the
                                        premises at maximum employment on a
                                        single shift
                                        1 parking space for every 8 seats
                                        available at maximum capacity in the
                                        assembly hall, auditorium, stadium or
                                        gymnasium of greatest capacity on the
Junior and senior high schools          school grounds or campus. If the school
                                        has no assembly hall, auditorium,
                                        stadium or gymnasium, 1 parking space
                                        shall be provided for each person
                                        regularly employed at such school plus
                                        2 additional spaces for each classroom
                                        Parking or storage space for all
                                        vehicles used directly in the operation
Libraries, museums, Post Offices and    of such establishments plus 3 parking
similar establishments                  spaces for the first 1,000 square feet
                                        of total floor area and 1 additional
                                        space for every additional 200 square
                                        feet of floor area
                                        3 parking spaces for each doctor plus 1
Medical and dental clinics              additional space for every 2 regular
                                        employees
                                        11/2 parking spaces for each sleeping
Motels and hotels                       room offered for tourist accommodation
                                        plus 1 space for each dwelling unit on
                                        the premises
                                        1 parking space for every 2 beds
Nursing homes                           occupied at maximum capacity, plus 1
                                        space for every 2 regular employees
Offices                                 1 parking space for every 300 square
                                        feet of office space
                                        Parking or storage space for all
                                        vehicles used directly in the conduct
                                        of such business plus 2 parking spaces
                                        for each person employed on the
Outdoor retail businesses               premises based on maximum seasonal
                                        employment and such additional space as
                                        may be required by the Planning
                                        Commission based on the nature of the
                                        business and other relevant factors
                                        1 parking space for every 12 seats
                                        available at maximum capacity in the
                                        assembly hall, auditorium, stadium or
                                        gymnasium of greatest capacity on the
                                        school grounds or campus. If the
Public and private elementary schools   institution has no assembly hall,
                                        auditorium, stadium or gymnasium then 1
                                        parking space shall be provided for
                                        each person regularly employed at such
                                        school plus 1 additional space for each
                                        classroom
                                        Indoor or outdoor parking or storage
                                        space for all vehicles used directly in
Public garages                          the conduct of such business plus 3
                                        parking spaces for each person
                                        regularly employed on the premises
                                        Parking or storage space for all
Repair shops, plumbing shops,           vehicles used directly in the conduct
electrical shops, roofing shops, and    of the business plus 2 parking spaces
other service establishments            for each person regularly employed on
                                        the premises
Restaurants and other eating and        1 parking space for every 200 square
drinking establishments                 feet of total floor area
Self-service laundries                  1 parking space for every 2 washing
                                        machines
                                        Parking or storage space for all
                                        vehicles used directly in the conduct
                                        of the business plus 1 parking space
Service stations                        for each gas pump, 3 spaces for each
                                        grease rack or similar facility and 1
                                        space for every 2 persons employed on
                                        the premises at maximum employment on a
                                        single shift
Theaters, auditoriums, churches,        1 parking space for every 6 seats
stadiums, civil centers and other       available at maximum capacity
places of public assembly
Transportation terminals                1 parking space for every 100 square
                                        feet of waiting room space
                                        1 parking space for every 6 seats
                                        occupied at maximum capacity in the
                                        assembly hall, auditorium, stadium or
Universities, colleges, junior          gymnasium of greatest capacity on the
colleges, academies, technical schools  campus. If the institution has no
and similar institutions of higher      assembly hall, auditorium, stadium or
learning                                gymnasium, 1 parking space shall be
                                        provided for each person regularly
                                        employed at such institution plus 5
                                        additional spaces for each classroom
                                        Parking or storage space for all
Warehouses, freight terminals and       vehicles used directly in the conduct
trucking terminals                      of such business plus 2 parking spaces
                                        for each person regularly employed on
                                        the premises
                                        Parking or storage space for all
                                        vehicles used directly in the conduct
Wholesale businesses                    of such business plus 2 parking spaces
                                        for each person employed on the
                                        premises based on maximum seasonal
                                        employment
 
(Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord. 79-8, 10-9-1979)
   (E)   Design And Schedule Of Off-Street Loading And Unloading Space:
      1.   Design:
(a) Loading Berth; Description: An off-street loading berth shall be a hard-
surfaced area of land, open or enclosed, other than a street or public way,
used principally for the standing, loading or unloading of motor trucks,
tractors and trailers so as to avoid undue interference with the public use of
streets and alleys.
(b) Location: No permitted or required loading berth shall be closer than fifty
feet (50') to any property in a residential district unless completely enclosed
by building walls, or a uniformly painted solid fence or wall, or any
combination thereof not less than six feet (6') in height. No permitted or
required loading berth shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of the
nearest point of intersection of any two (2) streets. Loading berths open to
the sky may be located in any required yards.
(c) Measurement Of Berth: When determination of the number of required off-
street loading berths results in a requirement of a fractional berth, any
fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and fractions
over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one loading berth.
(d) Surfacing: All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted gravel base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced with not
less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some comparable all-weather
dustless material.
      2.   Space Requirements: Every building or structure used for business,
trade or industry shall provide adequate space for the loading and unloading of
vehicles off the street or public alley. Such space shall have access to a
public alley or, if there is no alley, to a street. Off-street loading and
unloading space shall be in addition to and not considered as meeting a part of
the requirements for off-street parking space. Off-street loading and unloading
space shall not be used or designed, intended or constructed to be used in a
manner to obstruct or interfere with the free use of any street, alley or
adjoining property. At least the following off-street loading and unloading
space requirements for specific uses shall be provided:
 
Freight terminals and trucking   1 off-street loading and unloading space
terminals                        at least 12' x 50' for every 5,000
                                 square feet of total floor area
                                 1 off-street loading and unloading space
Industrial plants                at least 12' x 50' for every 10,000
                                 square feet of total floor area
Retail businesses and service    1 off-street loading and unloading space
establishments                   at least 12' x 35' for every 3,000
                                 square feet of total floor area
Warehouses and wholesale storage 1 off-street loading and unloading space
facilities                       at least 12' x 50' for every 7,500
                                 square feet of total floor area
 
(Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Nonconforming Use And Building Regulations
10-12-1: NONCONFORMING USE AND BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   (A)   The lawful use of land for storage purposes except for agriculture
uses or where such use is an adjunct of any structure, and advertising signs
and bulletin boards which do not conform to the provisions of this title shall
be discontinued within one year from the date of the approval hereof and the
lawful use of land for storage purposes except for agriculture uses or where
such use is an adjunct of any structure, and signs and bulletin boards which
become nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change in this title shall also
be discontinued within one year from the date of the change.
   (B)   The lawful use of a building or structure existing at the time of the
effective date hereof may be continued, although such use does not conform to
the provisions of this title. If no structural alterations are made, a
nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of
the same or of a more restricted classification. Whenever such nonconforming
use has been changed to a more restricted use or to conforming use, such use
shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
   (C)   Whenever the lawful use of a building becomes nonconforming through a
change in zoning requirements or district boundaries, such use may be continued
and if no structural alterations are made, it may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or of a more restricted classification. Whenever
such nonconforming use has been changed to a more restricted use or to a
conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted
use.
   (D)   The lawful use of land as a trailer court which does not conform to
the provisions of this title shall not be extended beyond the area actually so
used at the date of approval of this title and no new parking spaces or berths
for additional trailers shall be added thereto.
   (E)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a nonagricultural building or
structure, or part thereof, has been discontinued for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months, or for a continuous period of eighteen (18) months if the
building was originally designed and constructed for a nonresidential use, such
use shall not, after being discontinued or abandoned, be reestablished, and the
use of the premises thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   (F)   Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a
nonconforming use for a period of six (6) months shall constitute abandonment.
   (G)   No existing nonagricultural building or structure devoted to a use not
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located, except
when required to do so by law, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or
structurally altered, unless such use is changed to a use permitted in the
district in which such building or structure is located; provided, however, any
building containing a residential nonconforming use may be altered in any way
to improve livability but no structural alteration shall be made which would
increase the number of dwelling units therein or the bulk of the building. Any
existing building or structure devoted to a use permitted in the district in
which such building or structure is situated, but failing to comply with the
yard or building setback line requirements of this title, may be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which does not
further encroach upon the required open yard space or building setback line
which is not complied with.
   (H)   Any nonagricultural building or structure containing a nonconforming
use which is damaged by explosion, fire, flood, wind or other act of God or man
to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its fair market (sales) value
immediately prior to damage, shall not be repaired or reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this title. In the event that the Code
Enforcement Officer's estimate of the extent of damage or fair market value is
not acceptable to the applicant for the building permit to repair or
reconstruct such building or structure, the applicant may appeal to the Board
of Appeals.
   (I)   No nonagricultural building or structure designed or intended to be
utilized for a nonconforming use shall be constructed or allowed unless
substantial construction is underway at the time of the enactment of this title
or subsequent amendment thereto, and is being diligently prosecuted so that
such building or structure will be completed within eighteen (18) months from
the time of the enactment hereof or subsequent amendment. All outstanding
building permits for construction which do not meet these requirements shall be
rendered null and void by the enactment of this title or subsequent amendments
thereto.
   (J)   When adjacent lots of record are in single ownership and fronting on
the same street or place, even though such lots are smaller in area and width
than permitted in the use district where located, no building or structure
shall be erected or structurally altered on such lots, except in conformity
with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-13-1: Building Permits
10-13-2: Certificates Of Occupancy
10-13-3: Duties Of Code Enforcement Officer
10-13-1: BUILDING PERMITS:
   (A)   No nonagricultural building or structure shall be erected, added to or
structurally altered until a permit has been issued by the Code Enforcement
Officer. Except upon a written order of the Board of Appeals, no such building
permit shall be issued for any building where the construction, addition or
alteration or use thereof would be in violation of any of the provisions of
this title. No agriculture building or structure exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) in cost shall be erected, added to or structurally altered until a
permit has been issued by the Code Enforcement Officer without charge. Such
permit shall be issued upon compliance by the applicant with the building
setback line. A building permit shall also be required for any swimming pool
constructed or erected in the city with a volume exceeding five hundred (500)
gallons.
   (B)   There shall be submitted with all applications for building permits of
nonagricultural buildings or structures, two (2) copies of a layout or plot
plan drawn to scale showing actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the
exact size and location on the lot of the building and accessory buildings to
be erected and such other information as may be necessary to determine and
provide for the enforcement of this title.
   (C)   One copy of such layout or plot plan shall be returned when approved
by the Code Enforcement Officer, together with such permit to the applicant.
(Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. Ord. 2019-8, 11-12-2019)
10-13-2: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use or
occupancy of land, nor any change of use or occupancy in an existing
nonagricultural building shall be made, nor shall any new nonagricultural
building be occupied for any purpose until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Code Enforcement Officer. Every certificate of occupancy shall
state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this title.
   (B)   No permit for excavation for, or the erection, construction or
alteration of any nonagricultural building shall be issued before the
application has been made and approved for a certificate of occupancy, but no
occupancy permit shall be issued until the erection, construction or alteration
has been completed, inspected and approved by the Code Enforcement Officer and
no nonagricultural building or structure shall be occupied until the
certificate and permit are issued.
   (C)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
Office of the Code Enforcement Officer and copies shall be furnished on request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the land or in a
building affected by such certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required for all nonconforming
uses of nonagricultural land or buildings existing after the passage hereof, or
any amendment thereto. Application for such certificate of occupancy for
nonconforming uses shall be filed with the Code Enforcement Officer by the
owner or occupant of the land or building occupied by such nonconforming use
within one year from the effective date of this title, or amendments thereto.
It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to issue a certificate of
occupancy for nonconforming uses.
   (E)   No nonconforming use shall be renewed, or changed, without a
certificate of occupancy having first been issued by the Code Enforcement
Officer. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-13-3: DUTIES OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The Code Enforcement Officer of the City, or other officials that have been or
shall be duly appointed by the City Council, shall enforce this title and, in
addition thereto and in furtherance of said authority, shall:
   (A)   Issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof.
   (B)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land, to
determine compliance with the terms of this title.
   (C)   Maintain permanent and current records of this title, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments and special uses, variations, appeals and
applications therefor.
   (D)   Receive, file and forward to the Board of Appeals all applications for
appeals, variations and other matters on which the Board of Appeals is required
to decide under this title.
   (E)   Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be required by
the Board of Appeals in the exercise of its duties. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
CHAPTER 14
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Creation, Appointment And Organization
10-14-2: Powers, Duties And Procedure
10-14-3: Procedure
10-14-1: CREATION, APPOINTMENT AND ORGANIZATION:
   (A)   A Board of Appeals shall be established. The word "Board" when used
shall be construed to mean the Board of Appeals. The Board shall consist of
five (5) members, all of whom shall be appointed and approved by the Corporate
Authorities.
Members of the Board shall reside only in the territory subject to the
application of the provisions of this title and the failure of any member of
the Board to maintain this residence qualification at any time shall subject
him to removal from said Board for cause. The term of office of the members of
the Board shall be for five (5) years, except that the membership of the first
Board appointed shall serve respectively for terms of one for one year, one for
two (2) years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, and one for
five (5) years. Thereafter, members shall be appointed for terms of five (5)
years each. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members
shall be removed for cause by the Corporate Authorities upon written charges
and after a public hearing.
   (B)   The Board shall elect its own Chairman and Vice-Chairman who shall
serve for one year. The Board shall adopt from time to time such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this title. The Board shall, in addition, adopt a schedule of fees or other
method to determine the manner and amount of charges to be collected by the
Code Enforcement Officer for the erection, construction, enlargement,
reconstruction or extension of any building or structure after the effective
date of this title, and to provide for such other fees and charges as may be
necessary to carry into effect the provisions hereof.
   (C)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman or any
two (2) members, or at such other times as the Board may determine. Four (4)
members of the Board shall constitute a quorum and a majority vote of the
members present shall determine all questions presented to the Board except as
otherwise provided in this title. The Chairman shall be entitled to vote upon
all questions presented to the Board. Such Chairman, or in his absence the
acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examinations, determinations and other official actions, all of which
shall be immediately filed in the Office of the Board and shall be a public
record. Official action and minutes of the proceedings shall be taken down by a
reporter employed by the Board for the purpose. The Board may select or appoint
such officers as it deems necessary. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
   (D)   The members of the Board shall receive compensation for their
services, not to exceed twenty dollars ($20.00) for each such day of service,
to be fixed by the Corporate Authorities. The per diem compensation shall be
paid out of the General Fund of the City. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970; amd. 2018
Code)
10-14-2: POWERS, DUTIES AND PROCEDURE:
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Powers Relative To Errors: To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Code Enforcement Officer in the enforcement of this title.
   (B)   Powers Relative To Variations: When, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property at the time of
adoption of this title, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions or
other extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a specific piece
of property, which condition is not generally prevalent in the area, the strict
application of the area regulations would result in peculiar and exceptional
practical difficulties of exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of such
property, the Board shall be empowered to authorize, upon application for an
appeal in regard to such property, a variation from such district application
so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship.
   (C)   Powers Relative To Exceptions: Upon application for appeal the Board
shall be empowered to permit the following exceptions:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot of record in single ownership.
      2.   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been damaged by explosion, fire, act of God or the public enemy to the extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of its assessed value when the Board finds
some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming
use, but in no case shall such permit be issued if its primary function is to
continue a monopoly.
      3.   To interpret the provisions of this title where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing
the several districts.
      4.   To vary parking regulations whenever the character or use of the
building is such as to make unnecessary the full provision of parking
facilities or when such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon
the use of the lot, as contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a
convenience.
   (D)   Power Of The Officer: In exercising the above powers, the Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made and to that end shall have all
the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. In considering all
appeals or applications for variations or exceptions, the Board shall before
making any finding in a specific case first determine that the proposed change
will not constitute a change, including a variation in use, in the district map
and will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property,
or increase congestion in public streets or increase the danger of fire or
materially diminish or impair established property values within the
surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare of the City. Every change granted or denied by the
Board shall be accompanied by a written finding of fact based on sworn
testimony and evidence, specifying the reason for granting or denying the
variation. The decision of the Board shall be made a part of any building
permit in which variation is allowed.
   (E)   Concurring Vote: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of the Code Enforcement Officer, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass or to effect any variations in this
title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-14-3: PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Appeals to the Board of any matter over which the Board is
specifically granted jurisdiction may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by
an officer, department, any board or bureau of the City affected by any
decision of the Code Enforcement Officer. Such appeal shall be taken within
sixty (60) days of such decision by filing with the Code Enforcement Officer
and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is taken.
   (B)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Code Enforcement Officer certifies to the Board after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
proper legal action.
   (C)   Upon an appeal, request for a variation or exception, the Board shall
fix a reasonable time for a hearing. Upon an appeal from any decision of the
Code Enforcement Officer, request for variation or exception, the Board shall
give not less than fifteen (15) days' public notice of a hearing thereon in a
newspaper of general circulation. The notice shall contain the particular
location of the property affected by the decision appealed from or the
variation or exception requested, as well as a brief statement of the nature of
the appeal or of what the proposed variation or exception consists.
The Secretary of the Board shall give due notice of the place and time for
hearing of the appeal application, request for variation or exception to the
parties concerned either in person or by registered mail, return receipt
requested, not less than fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days
prior to the hearing. Said notice shall state the name and address of the
applicant, the name and address of the owner of the property, the location of
the property and a brief statement of the nature of the appeal, request for
variation or exception. Said notice shall be sent to the property owners, as
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds of the County, and as
appears from the authentic tax records of the City or the County of all
property within two hundred fifty feet (250') in each direction of the location
for which the appeal, variation or exception is requested; the number of feet
occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be
excluded in determining the two hundred fifty foot (250') requirement. The
applicant shall furnish the Board a complete list containing the names and last
known addresses of the owners of property required to be served at the time the
application is filed. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by
agent or by attorney. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
   (D)   The party filing a notice of appeal or any other request requiring a
hearing before the Board shall pay at the time of filing, a filing fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) and an additional fee shall be paid for the costs of
any required publication and postage for mailing any required notices. The
filing fee shall be paid at the time of filing the petition. The publication
and/or mailing cost shall be paid prior to the hearing. The fees shall be paid
to the City Clerk, who shall give a receipt therefor; and a copy of the receipt
shall be presented to the Board with the notice of appeal, as evidence that the
fees required in the case have been paid. The fees thus collected by the City
Clerk shall be paid to the credit of the General Fund of the City. Under no
condition shall the sum or any part thereof be refunded for failure of the
change to be adopted by the Board or the Corporate Authorities. (Ord. 2014-2,
5-13-2014)
CHAPTER 15
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Amendments To Boundaries, Regulations Or Restrictions
10-15-1: AMENDMENTS TO BOUNDARIES, REGULATIONS OR RESTRICTIONS:
The Corporate Authorities may, from time to time, on its own motion or on
petition, amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal by ordinance, the
boundaries of districts or regulations or restrictions established herein. Any
proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal shall first be
submitted to the Planning Commission for its recommendations and report. If the
Planning Commission makes no report within sixty (60) days, it shall be
considered to have made a report approving the proposed amendment, supplement,
modification or change. Within sixty (60) days after the proposed amendment,
supplement, change, modification or repeal is submitted to the commission or
upon the filing of the recommendations and report by the commission with
respect to any proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal,
the Corporate Authorities shall cause a public hearing to be held before the
Board of Appeals in relation thereto, after giving at least fifteen (15) days'
notice of the time and place of such hearing and publishing such notice in a
newspaper having a general circulation in the City. Such notice shall state the
time and place of the hearing, the location of the property affected, and a
brief statement of the amendment. A hearing shall be held in the City Hall.
Within ten (10) days following the hearing the Board of Appeals shall file a
report of the hearing and its recommendations with the Corporate Authorities.
In the case of an adverse report by the Planning Commission or Board of Appeals
or if a protest against such proposed amendment, supplement, change,
modification or repeal is presented in writing to the City Clerk, duly signed
and acknowledged by the owners of ten percent (10%) or more, either of the area
of land (exclusive of streets, places and alleys) included within such a
proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal; or within an
area, determined by lines drawn parallel to and one hundred eighty five feet
(185') distant from any boundary of the district proposed to be changed, such
amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal shall not become
effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all the
members of the Corporate Authorities. The increased vote requirement shall
apply in all cases of special use exceptions. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
The party or parties proposing recommending a change in the district
regulations or district boundaries shall deposit a fee of two hundred dollars
($200.00) with the City Clerk at the time the application is filed, and an
additional fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the City Clerk for
the publication of "Notice of Public Hearing". All fees received hereunder
shall forthwith be paid over to the credit of the General Fund of the City.
Under no condition shall the sum or any part thereof be refunded for failure of
the change to be adopted by the Corporate Authorities. (Ord. 2014-2, 5-13-2014;
amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 16
INTERPRETATION, ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-16-1: Interpretation
10-16-2: Enforcement
10-16-3: Violations And Penalties
10-16-1: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of public health,
morals, safety or the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title
are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher
standards, shall govern. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-16-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The Corporate Authorities shall appoint a Code Enforcement Officer, whose duty
it shall be to enforce the provisions of this title. Appeal from the decision
of the Code Enforcement Officer may be made to the Board of Appeals, as
provided in chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
10-16-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
The owner or agent of a building, structure or land in or upon which a
violation has been committed or upon which a violation exists, or the lessee or
tenant of an entire building, entire structure or entire land in or upon which
a violation has been committed or should exist, or the agent, architect,
building contractor or any other person who commits, takes part or assists in
any violation or who maintains any building, structure or land in or upon which
violation shall exist, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense; or the City may proceed in a civil action in a
court of competent jurisdiction, to enjoin the use of a building, structure or
land in or upon which a violation has been committed or shall exist. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day such violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 69-23, 4-6-1970)
CHAPTER 17
MEDICAL DISPENSERS OF CANNABIS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Definitions
10-17-2: Regulations
10-17-3: Additional Requirements
10-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                      Department of Financial and Professional
                                      Regulation to acquire cannabis from
                                      licensed cannabis business establishments
                                      for the purpose of selling or dispensing
ADULT-USE CANNABIS MEDICAL DISPENSING cannabis, cannabis-infused products,
ORGANIZATION:                         cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                      supplies to qualified registered medical
                                      cannabis patients and caregivers,
                                      pursuant to medical prescription per the
                                      Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.
                                      101-0027), as it maybe amended from time-
                                      to-time, and regulations promulgated
                                      there under. (Ord. 2020-13, 4-13-2021)
 
10-17-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   All facilities for dispensing of medical cannabis activities in the
City of Carthage, as above defined, shall comply with all regulations provided
in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101- 0027) (Act), as it may be
amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated there under, and the
regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more
restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply. Such facilities may
be located only on the Carthage Square on the east side, the west side, or the
south side, and at least 500 feet from any existing school or education
facility. Any such facility may not be located within 500 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home, same
to be measured from lot lines. No more than two medical dispensaries shall be
authorized by the City.
   B.   The customer entrance shall be facing the public square and dispensing
though any other entrance is specifically prohibited. No sale of cannabis shall
be made other than pursuant to a valid medical prescription. (Ord. 2020-13, 4-
13-2021)
10-17-3: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the use permit, to ensure the
safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis business facilities
and Establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be
determined based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for an
Adult-Use Cannabis facility or Business Establishment and the site on which it
is located, consistent with the requirements of the Act. (Ord. 2020-13, 4-13-
2021)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Title, Purpose, Definitions   1
General Regulations   2
Procedure   3
Plat Requirements   4
Minimum Design And Development Standards   5
Required Improvements   6
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose, Scope
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title may be known and cited as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
CARTHAGE. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-1-2: PURPOSE, SCOPE:
The purpose of this title is to provide rules, regulations and standards to
guide land subdivision within the City in order to promote the public health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the City. The standards herein set
forth shall be administered to insure orderly growth and development, the
conservation, protection and proper use of land and adequate provision for
traffic circulation, utilities and services.
These provisions shall govern every subdivision of land within the corporate
limits of the City. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words shall have the meanings and
references given, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: The officer designated and authorized by the City
Council to enforce the subdivision regulations.
   ALLEY: A permanent public service way or right-of-way, dedicated to public
use, other than a street, place, road, crosswalk or easement, designed to
provide a secondary means of access for the special accommodation of abutting
property.
   BLOCK: A unit of property entirely surrounded by public highways, streets,
railroad rights-of-way, waterways or other barriers, or combination thereof.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE; BUILDING LINE: The line nearest the front or side of
and across a lot establishing the minimum yard to be provided between the
principal building or structure and the lot line.
   CITY: The City of Carthage, Illinois.
   CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Carthage, Illinois.
   COMMISSION: The duly appointed Carthage Planning Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of the City, prepared by the commission and adopted by the City
Council, in accordance with the authority conferred by division 12 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, as amended.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITY: The duly elected City Council of the City of Carthage,
Illinois.
   COUNTY: The County of Hancock, Illinois.
   CROSSWALK: A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved across
a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT OR DEAD-END STREET): A short street having one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
   DRAINAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY: The lands required for the installation of stormwater
sewers or drainage ditches, or required along a natural stream or watercourse
for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water therein to
safeguard the public against flood damage.
   EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public or a person for specified purposes.
   FINAL PLAT: The final map of all or a portion of the subdivision which is
presented to the commission for final approval in accordance with these
regulations, and which if approved should be filed with the proper County
recording officer.
   JURISDICTION: The corporate area of Carthage, Illinois.
   LOT: A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or development.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE: Any security which may be accepted that guarantees
certain improvements constructed under conditions set forth by the commission
shall at the time they are accepted for public maintenance be in such condition
as to require no additional work beyond normal upkeep.
   MAYOR: The duly elected Mayor of the City of Carthage, Illinois.
   MUNICIPALITY: The City of Carthage, Illinois.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: Any security which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the commission or other
approving body approves a final plat; including performance bonds, escrow
agreements and other similar collateral or surety agreements.
   PERSON: A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLACE: An open, unoccupied, officially designated space, other than a street
or alley, permanently reserved as the principal means of access to abutting
property.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The duly appointed Carthage Planning Commission.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN: The drawings and documents described in chapter 4 of this
title indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision which is submitted to
the commission for consideration and tentative approval.
   STREET: A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise legally
established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of access
to abutting property. A street may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive or other appropriate name. For
the purpose of this ordinance, streets shall be classified as follows:
   (A)   Major highways and arterial streets: These facilities serve mainly to
move interstate and intra-City or through traffic, but also perform a secondary
function of providing direct access to abutting property. Streets and highways
under this classification connect cities, and are important intra-City routes
connecting principal traffic generators within a city or county. Interstate
highways, Federal and State marked routes, as well as important intra-City
streets, fall under this classification.
   (B)   Collector routes: These facilities serve intra-City or intra-County
movements of traffic, such as that moving between a subdivision and an arterial
street or highway, or from one part of the County to another. The principal
difference between the collector street and the arterial street or highway is
the length of trip for which it is utilized. Collector routes are intended to
supply the abutting property with the same degree of land service as the local
street, while at the same time serving larger volumes of traffic.
   (C)   Local or neighborhood streets: All other streets and roads are
considered under this classification, with the primary function of these
streets being to provide access to the immediately adjacent properties. Local
access streets generally carry low volumes of traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person responsibly engaged in developing or improving a
tract of land which complies with the definition of subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit, as part of
a unit, or as contiguous units on the last preceding transfer of ownership
thereof, into two (2) or more parcels, sites or lots, any one of which is less
than five (5) acres in area, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership, or the improvement of one or more parcels of land for
residential, commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures
involving the subdivision and allocation of land as streets or other open
spaces for the common use by the owners, occupants or lease holders, or as
easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm
drainage, or other public facilities and utilities, shall be considered as
subdivisions; or as the same may be defined in 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes
205, plats as the same are now in force or may hereafter be amended;
Provided, however, that the sale or exchange of parcels between the owners of
adjoining lots where such sale or exchange does not create additional building
sites, or the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five (5)
acres not involving any new streets or easements of access should not be
considered as subdivisions; and provided, also
That where no new streets or roads are involved, divisions of land for
agricultural purposes where the resulting parcels are more than three (3) acres
or larger in size, divisions of property by testamentary or intestate
provisions, or divisions of property upon court order shall not be considered
subdivisions.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The part of the comprehensive plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes a major street and highway plan and sets forth the
location alignment, dimensions, identification and classification of existing
and proposed streets, highways and other thoroughfares.
   YARD: A space on the same lot with a building, which is open, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures, except as provided in the zoning ordinance.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: The part of the comprehensive plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes an ordinance and zone map which divides the area within
the Municipality into districts, with regulations and requirements and
procedures for the establishment of land use controls (see title 10 of this
Code). (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Compliance With Provisions
11-2-2: Approval Of Plans Required
11-2-3: Minimum Requirements Of Subdivisions
11-2-4: Inspections
11-2-5: Variations And Exceptions
11-2-6: Building Permit; Zoning Certificate
11-2-7: Enforcement
11-2-8: Record Of Plats
11-2-9: Violation; Penalty
11-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No land shall, after the adoption of this title, be subdivided without
complying with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-2-2: APPROVAL OF PLANS REQUIRED:
No lot, tract or parcel of land within any such subdivision shall be offered
for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be given until such
subdivision plans have been properly reviewed by the Planning Commission and
officially approved by the City Council.
No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage, sewerage
facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting, or grading, paving or
surfacing of any street, should be made within any such subdivision by any
owner or owners or his or their agent, or by any public service corporation at
the request of such owner or owners, or by his or their agent, until the plans
for the subdivision and also the plans for the improvements have been properly
reviewed by the commission and officially approved by the City Council.
Where a tract of land is proposed to be subdivided in several stages over a
period of years, and the subdivider requests approval in parts, he shall, at
the time of submission of the first part, submit a detailed plan of the entire
tract to be eventually developed with appropriate sectioning to demonstrate to
the Planning Commission that the total design as proposed for the entire
subdivision is feasible. The Planning Commission may give preliminary approval
to the overall plan and final approval on the parts as submitted from time to
time.
Where applicable, permits from the State of Illinois through its various
agencies must be submitted for City action simultaneously with the proposed
plans for the subdivision. This provision pertains to, but is not limited to,
those permits for sanitary sewer construction and water distribution extensions
that must be approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord.
70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-2-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF SUBDIVISIONS:
The provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements
necessary in the subdivision of land. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-2-4: INSPECTIONS:
All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of this title
should be inspected during the course of construction by the Codes Enforcement
Officer or a duly designated representative. The subdivider shall provide
sufficient technical services necessary to assure compliance with completion of
the approved plans. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
11-2-5: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
When a subdivider can show that a provision of this title would cause
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and when, in the opinion of the
commission, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provision, the
commission may recommend a variance or modification to the City. The subdivider
shall apply in writing for such variance or modification. The written
application for such variance or modification shall be in detail. Any variance
thus recommended shall be entered in writing in the minutes of the commission
and the reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set forth. Any
variance or modification authorized by the City Council shall be made by
resolution and a copy thereof shall be attached to and made a part of the final
plat.
An exception may be made from the specifications and procedures in the case of
a subdivision containing not more than three (3) lots fronting on an existing
street, not involving any new street or road or the extension of Municipal
facilities and not adversely affecting the development of the remainder of the
parcel and not in conflict with any provisions of or portions of the
Comprehensive Plan, Official Map, zoning ordinance or these regulations. A plat
of the proposed minor subdivision should be submitted to the Secretary of the
commission at least one week prior to the commission meeting at which
consideration is desired with four (4) black or blue line prints of the
proposed minor subdivision, who in turn will forward their recommendation and
the plat to the City Council for action. Action by the Council should take
place at its next stated meeting. Approval of the City Council shall be
indicated on the original drawing by the affixing of the signatures of the
Mayor and the City Clerk, and the plat shall be returned to the applicant to be
filed for record in the Office of the County Clerk. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-2-6: BUILDING PERMIT; ZONING CERTIFICATE:
No building permit or zoning certificate shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any building, structure or improvement to the
land or any lot within the subdivision, as defined herein, which has been
approved for platting or replatting, until all requirements have been fully
complied with. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-2-7: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision shall be permitted to be recorded by the County
Clerk or to have any validity until it shall have been approved in the proper
manner as established by the City. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-2-8: RECORD OF PLATS:
All of such plats of subdivisions, after the same have been submitted and
approved, shall be filed in a book of plats of the County of Hancock, State of
Illinois, and shall be filed and kept by the City among its records. (Ord. 70-
1, 5-4-1970)
11-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who constructs any public improvement or portion thereof in
violation of the provisions of this title, shall be, upon conviction, fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. Any fine shall be collected by civil suit brought in the
name of the City.
Whoever shall sell or offer for sale, lease or offer for lease, while this
title is in effect, any lot or lots or block or blocks within the incorporated
limits of the City, or any addition thereto, or any resubdivision of any lot or
block therein, before all of the requirements of this title have been complied
with, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each lot,
block or part thereof so disposed of, offered for sale or leased. Any fine
shall be collected by civil suit brought in the name of the City. This
provision shall not apply to an area within a plat filed prior to the adoption
of this title. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preliminary Considerations
11-3-2: Filing Of Preliminary Plats
11-3-3: Approval Of Final Plats
11-3-1: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS:
In order to make the most of opportunities related to the subdivision and to
conserve time, effort and expense, the owner or subdivider shall consult with
the Planning Commission, the Codes Enforcement Officer or appointed official,
and other public officials prior to the preparation of the preliminary plat for
the subdivision. The comprehensive plan of the City shall be reviewed to
determine how the preliminary plat will fit into said comprehensive plan.
Requirements for major and minor streets, school and recreation sites,
community facilities, shopping centers, sanitation, water supply and drainage
and the relationship to other developments existing and proposed in the
vicinity shall be determined in advance of the preparation of the preliminary
plat. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
11-3-2: FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLATS:
A subdivider desiring approval of a plat of a subdivision shall submit a
written application therefor to the commission. Such application shall be
accompanied by the information, requirements and plans set forth in chapter 4
of this title, all in accordance with the requirements set forth in this title.
   (A)   Three (3) copies of the completed application for subdivision approval
form together with at least six (6) prints of each drawing submitted as a part
of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the City Clerk no later than two
(2) weeks prior to the commission meeting at which consideration is desired. At
the time of filing a fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be paid to the
City Clerk to cover the costs of publishing notices and of notifying the
persons concerned with the pending hearing on said subdivision. The City Clerk
shall immediately notify the Secretary of the commission upon receipt of the
application and preliminary plat.
   (B)   If the preliminary plat is approved by the commission, the applicant
shall be authorized to proceed with the preparation of the final plat. The City
Clerk shall attach to a copy of the preliminary plat a certified copy of the
resolution approving or disapproving the preliminary plat; in case of
disapproval giving reasons and specifying aspects of nonconformance with
existing ordinances. A copy of the resolutions shall be filed in the City
Clerk's Office and shall be signed by the Chairman or Vice- Chairman of the
commission.
   (C)   Preliminary approval shall confer upon the applicant the following
rights for a one year period from the date of approval:
      1.   That the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
approval was granted will not be changed.
      2.   That the said applicant may submit on or before the expiration date
the whole or part or parts of said plat for final approval. In the case of a
subdivision being developed in stages, the applicant may elect to have final
approval delayed for a period not to exceed three (3) years from the date of
preliminary approval for the remaining portions of the plat, after submission
of the original part within the above specified period. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-3-3: APPROVAL OF FINAL PLATS:
   (A)   The final plat shall be submitted to the City Clerk for transmittal to
the commission for final approval. The submission shall include the plans and
specifications for the required improvements as set forth in chapter 6 of this
title. All documents shall bear the approving signature of the Codes
Enforcement Officer or designated official, and the transmittal to the City
Council shall include a letter from the Codes Enforcement Officer or designated
official describing such approval and setting forth an estimate to cover the
cost of the proposed improvements for performance guarantee purposes.
   (B)   Upon review by the commission and the Codes Enforcement Officer, or
designated official, the final plat shall be returned to the City Clerk for
submission to the City Council, with all recommendations from the commission
attached. If the final plat is approved by the commission, the original tracing
shall bear the signature of the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the commission.
(Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
   (C)   The City Clerk shall attach to a copy of the final plat a certified
copy of the City Council's ordinance approving or disapproving the final plat;
in the case of disapproval, giving reasons for and specifying aspects of
nonconformance with existing ordinances. The approved copy of the final plat
shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk.
The approval of the final plat by the City Council shall be indicated on the
document to be filed for record by the affixing of the signatures of the Mayor
and the City Clerk. The approved final plat shall then be returned to the City
Clerk to be held until such time as the subdivider has posted the performance
guarantee as set forth in section
11-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
CHAPTER 4
PLAT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Preliminary Plat
11-4-2: Final Plat
11-4-3: Improvement Plans And Specifications
11-4-4: Performance Guarantee
11-4-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A preliminary plat shall be provided by the subdivider and shall consist of the
following:
   (A)   Location Map (which may be prepared by indicating the following data
on available maps) showing:
      1.   Boundary line of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy
line and the total approximate acreage involved.
      2.   Subdivision name and location, specifying U.S. survey and township
lines, county and state.
      3.   Any and all thoroughfares related to the subdivision.
      4.   Existing elementary and secondary schools, parks and playgrounds
available for serving the area proposed to be subdivided, and other community
features.
      5.   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
   (B)   Preliminary plat showing:
      1.   Name of the subdivision and location.
      2.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and the registered land
surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the proposed
subdivision; showing the names and including roadway widths, approximate
gradients, types and widths of pavement, curbs, sidewalks, crosswalks, planting
strips and other pertinent data.
      4.   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision.
      5.   Layout of lots, showing approximate dimensions and numbers.
      6.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes.
      7.   Easements, existing and proposed, showing locations, widths and
purposes.
      8.   Building setback or front yard lines and dimensions.
      9.   Location and size of nearest water main, sewer outlet and other
pertinent utilities.
      10.   Location, type and approximate size of utilities to be installed.
      11.   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to known land lines.
      12.   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet (2') except where the
slope exceeds fifty percent (50%); elevations at top and bottom of slopes
should be indicated.
      13.   Tree masses and all individual trees having a caliper of twelve
inches (12") or greater. Key plan, legend and notes.
      14.   Location of existing structures.
      15.   A preliminary outline of the deed restrictions and covenants that
would be placed upon the subdivision.
      16.   Landscaping plans and proposed limits on the location and intensity
of signs, advertising and off-street parking shall be included in the case of a
proposed subdivision for industrial or commercial use.
      17.   Scale, north arrow and date. The preliminary plat of the
subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of fifty feet (50') to one inch (1"), or
one hundred feet (100') to one inch (1"); provided, however, that if the
resulting drawing would be over thirty six inches (36") in the shortest
dimension, a scale as recommended by the commission may be used. (Ord. 70-1, 5-
4-1970)
11-4-2: FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall be provided by the subdivider and shall meet the following
specifications:
   (A)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the preliminary plat
which has received approval.
   (B)   The original drawing of the final plat shall be drawn on mylar tracing
film in black ink compatible with the material to a scale sufficient to show
detail and conform to the County Recorder's requirements of eighteen inch by
twenty four inch (18" x 24") size sheets. Four (4) black or blue line prints
shall be submitted with the original final plat. Prints filed with the City
shall include one direct mylar reproduction after recording of the final plat
and bearing the official stamp attesting the fact of the recording.
   (C)   All elevations shall be referenced to the established datum and the
said reference shall be clearly stated on any plans or drawings showing such
datum, providing bench marks are located within a reasonable distance.
   (D)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet, and decimals of a foot.
   (E)   The following basic information shall be shown; all surveys for a
final plat shall be made under the active and personal direction of a
registered surveyor of Illinois.
      1.   Accurate boundary lines with dimensions and bearings or angles,
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot (1') in five thousand feet (5,000'). Coordinates shall be
established for all property corners.
      2.   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established street
corner or official monuments. Reference corners shall be accurately described
on the final plat.
      3.   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets intersecting
the boundaries of the tract, shown by heavy solid lines.
      4.   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary and the
included area to the nearest one hundredth foot (0.01').
      5.   Right-of-way line of streets, easements and other rights-of- way,
and property lines of lots and other tracts, with accurate dimensions, bearings
and curve data, including radii, arcs and chords, points of tangency, and
central angles.
      6.   Name and right-of-way width for each street or other right-of- way.
      7.   Location, dimensions and purposes of any easement, shown by light,
dashed lines.
      8.   Number to identify each lot or site.
      9.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated
or reserved.
      10.   Building setback or front yard lines and dimensions.
      11.   Floor elevation and siting of each proposed building.
      12.   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot markers,
including elevations related to mean sea level as established by the U.S.
Geological Survey.
      13.   Names of owners and mortgagees accepting said plat, with owner or
owners personally signing all plans or drawings.
      14.   Names of record owners of adjoining unplatted land, shown by medium
dashed and two (2) dotted lines.
      15.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land
by record name, date and number, shown by medium dashed and two (2) dotted
lines.
      16.   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds for lots. Restriction lines should be shown by medium
dashed lines.
      17.   Title, north arrow, scale and date.
      18.   The information and requirements now required or hereafter required
in accordance with the provisions of 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1, in
such cases made and provided.
      19.   Certification by registered surveyor with registration number and
seal affixed to all documents of the final plat.
      20.   Certification by the registered surveyor stating that all lots
conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
      21.   Certificate of dedication of all public areas.
      22.   Certificate that all taxes due have been paid.
      23.   Certificate for approval by the commission.
      24.   Certificate for approval by the City Council. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-4-3: IMPROVEMENT PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The preliminary plat submission to the City Council shall be accompanied by the
plans and specifications for the improvements required under chapter 6 of this
title. The plans and profiles of all streets, storm and sanitary sewers, water
lines and drainage structures, together with their drainage area, shall be
prepared on standard plan and profile sheets and shall bear the seal and
signature of the registered professional engineer responsible for their
preparation. A cross section of the proposed streets shall be included showing
the widths of roadways, location and width of sidewalks and the location of
underground utilities. The plans shall show the lines of all proposed sidewalks
and the location of all proposed street lights. The plans, cross sections and
specifications for the proposed improvements shall be submitted to and approved
by the Codes Enforcement Officer or appointed official prior to submission to
the City Council with the final plat. Four (4) black or blue line prints of the
approved documents shall be included with the preliminary plat submission.
After the completion of the construction of the improvements, a set of
reproducible prints showing the as-built details and changes, if any, shall be
filed with the Codes Enforcement Officer, or appointed official. (Ord. 70-1, 5-
4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
11-4-4: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
A performance guarantee shall be required from the subdivider in the amount of
the estimate approved by the Codes Enforcement Officer or appointed official,
for the cost of the proposed improvements. The performance guarantee shall run
to the City and shall be as approved by the City Attorney, conditioned upon the
installation of the required improvements within two (2) years after the
approval of the final plat. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
In addition to the provision of a performance bond, a maintenance bond shall be
provided by the developer, running to the City, which will guarantee that such
utilities and streets as have been constructed for City acceptance will be in
acceptable condition at such time as formal agreement to maintain such
improvements is made. Such maintenance bond shall become effective at the
termination date of the performance bond or upon completion of construction,
and be in effect for two (2) years during which period formal acceptance of the
improvements covered shall be made by the City. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
CHAPTER 5
MINIMUM DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Conformance Required
11-5-2: General
11-5-3: Streets
11-5-4: Blocks
11-5-5: Lots
11-5-6: Easements
11-5-7: Public Use Areas
11-5-8: Topography, Natural Vegetation And Flooding
11-5-9: Street And House Numbering
11-5-1: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
The subdivider shall conform to the following principles and standards of land
subdivision in the design of each subdivision or portion thereof. (Ord. 70-1,
5-4-1970)
11-5-2: GENERAL:
The subdivision plan shall conform to design standards that will encourage good
development patterns and particularly to the principles and standards which are
generally exhibited in the comprehensive plan. The streets, drainage rights-of-
way, school sites, public parks, playgrounds and other public facilities are
shown on the officially adopted comprehensive plan or official map and shall be
considered in the approval of subdivision plats. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-5-3: STREETS:
   (A)   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision. Street jogs of less than one hundred
twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided. Streets ending in cul-de-sacs shall
not exceed five hundred feet (500') in length, unless necessitated by site
topography.
   (B)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (C)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to the
boundary of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal circulation
of traffic within the vicinity.
   (D)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley should be platted to the prescribed width within the proposed
subdivision.
   (E)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited
except where their control is definitely placed in the City Council under
conditions approved by the commission.
   (F)   The minimum right-of-way of local and neighborhood streets, including
access streets and cul-de-sacs, shall be sixty feet (60'). All cul-de-sacs
shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a minimum diameter of one
hundred twenty feet (120') under normal conditions.
   (G)   Subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do not
conform to the required widths shall dedicate additional width along either or
both sides of said street.
   (H)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly at right angles
as possible.
   (I)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two (2) streets is less than
sixty degrees (60°), the radius of the arc of the intersection of the property
lines shall be as deemed advisable by the commission.
   (J)   At the intersection of other streets the property line corners shall
be rounded by arcs with radii of not less than twenty feet (20'), or chords of
such arcs.
   (K)   At intersections of streets and alleys, the property line corners
shall be rounded by arcs with radii of not less than fifteen feet (15') or
chords of such arcs.
   (L)   Intersection of more than two (2) streets at one point shall be
avoided.
   (M)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
commission may apply special standards to be followed in the design of such
parkways or streets.
   (N)   Whenever the subdivision contains or is adjacent to a railroad right-
of-way or a highway designated as a "limited access highway" by the appropriate
highway authorities, provision shall be made for marginal access streets, or a
parallel street at a distance acceptable for the appropriate use of the land
between the highway or railroad and such streets.
   (O)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on all
streets shall be maintained along the center lines as follows:
 
Major highways and arterial streets 500 feet
Collector routes and parkways       300 feet
Local and neighborhood streets      150 feet
 
   (P)   Horizontal curvature measured along the center line shall have a
minimum radius as follows:
 
Major highways and arterial streets 500 feet
Collector routes and parkways       300 feet
Local and neighborhood streets      150 feet
 
   (Q)   All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
sufficient radii to provide smooth transitions and required sight distances.
   (R)   Between reversed curves on major highways and arterial streets, there
shall be a tangent of not less than one hundred feet (100') and on collector
routes and local streets such tangent shall be not less than forty feet (40').
   (S)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows: (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
      1.   Major highways and arterial streets, not greater than six percent
(6%) or as approved by the Street Superintendent, or appointed official, and
the commission.
      2.   Other streets and alleys, not greater than ten percent (10%) or as
approved by the Street Superintendent, or appointed official, and the
commission.
   (T)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than seventy-
five hundredths of one percent (0.75%) unless authorized by the Street
Superintendent. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
   (U)   No street shall have a name which will duplicate or so nearly
duplicate as to be confused with the name of an existing street, unless the
proposed street is an extension of or in alignment with an existing street, in
which case the duplication shall be mandatory.
   (V)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential areas, but shall be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes; and, where platted, shall be at least twenty feet
(20') in width.
   (W)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible but, if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end as
determined by the commission. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-5-4: BLOCKS:
   (A)   Blocks shall not normally exceed one thousand two hundred fifty feet
(1,250') in length, unless unusual circumstances justify greater length.
   (B)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two (2) tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway, major street or railroad right-of-way.
   (C)   No other specific rule is made concerning the shape of blocks, but
blocks shall fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision and their
design must evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow, and public
areas.
   (D)   Within blocks of over seven hundred feet (700') in length, the
commission may require, at or near the middle of the block, a public walk
connecting adjacent streets or other public areas, shopping centers, etc. Width
of right-of-way for such walks shall be at least ten feet (10') and shall be
intended for the use of pedestrians only. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-5-5: LOTS:
   (A)   All lots shall abut on a street or place.
   (B)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from this rule is
permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots shall be avoided.
   (C)   Double frontage lots shall not be platted.
   (D)   Minimum lot areas, widths and building setback lines shall be as
provided in the zoning ordinance for the district in which the subdivision is
located within the incorporated area of the City except that where a water
supply system or a sanitary sewer system is not available, the lot area
necessary to install a private water supply or sewage disposal system on the
lot, in accordance with the Illinois Department of Public Health, shall become
the minimum lot area.
   (E)   Wherever possible, a unit shopping center, based on sound development
standards, shall be designed in contrast to the platting of lots for individual
commercial use.
   (F)   Corner residential lots shall be wider than normal to permit
appropriate setbacks from both streets. Interior residential lots abutting a
corner lot shall be wider than the average interior lot in order to permit a
wider side yard adjacent to the corner lot. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-5-6: EASEMENTS:
   (A)   Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities shall be
provided. Such easements shall have a minimum width of fifteen feet (15') and
where located along interior lot lines, one-half (1/2) the width shall be taken
from each lot. Before determining the location of easements the plan shall be
discussed with the local utility companies to assure the proper placing for the
installation of services. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
   (B)   Whenever a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream there shall be provided a drainage right-of-way which shall
be for the purpose of widening, improving or protecting the stream at the
subdivision's expense. The width of the drainage right-of-way shall be adequate
for any necessary channel relocations and straightenings and shall be reviewed
by the Codes Enforcement Officer, or appointed official and shall relate as
closely as possible to the requirements of the comprehensive plan. Parallel
streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-
1970; amd. 2018 Code)
11-5-7: PUBLIC USE AREAS:
Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public use areas as shown
in the comprehensive plan or official map are located within the subdivision
area, the City Council shall require that such areas be so designated on the
final plat. Within one year after the approval of the final plat, the authority
having jurisdiction shall acquire the designated land or commence proceedings
to acquire it by condemnation, otherwise the owner may make any other permitted
use of the site, as permitted by the zoning district within which it lies.
(Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-5-8: TOPOGRAPHY, NATURAL VEGETATION AND FLOODING:
   (A)   In the subdividing of any land within the jurisdiction, due regard
shall be shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, or
other similar elements which, if preserved, will add attractiveness to the
proposed development.
   (B)   The natural topography shall be retained wherever possible in order to
reduce excessive run-off onto adjoining property and to avoid extensive
regrading of the site.
   (C)   Floor elevations of all buildings shall be carefully studied in
relation to existing topography, proposed street grades, existing twelve inch
(12") and over caliper trees, and other pertinent site features.
   (D)   Consideration shall be given to varying the setback line required in
the zoning district wherein the subdivision is proposed in order to retain
wherever possible existing topography, rock formations and large trees.
   (E)   Where there is a question as to the suitability of a lot or lots for
their intended use due to factors such as rock formations, flood conditions or
similar circumstances, the commission shall consider withholding approval of
such lots. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-5-9: STREET AND HOUSE NUMBERING:
   (A)   This Section further supplements the zoning and subdivision
ordinances. To provide the residents of the City of Carthage with a uniform and
standardized system of street naming and addressing to minimize further street
name and addressing conflicts, provide a database for City and County records
and enhanced 911 service, and expedite property identification by emergency
services.
   (B)   This Section shall apply to all property and to all public and private
streets in the City of Carthage whether currently existing, hereinafter
annexed, or hereafter constructed.
   (C)   The City Council of the City of Carthage in conjunction with the City
engineer and street department shall retain the primary authority for
designating new street names and house numbers. It shall be the responsibility
for ensuring that proposed street names are in conformance with this Section
and do not duplicate existing street names. The building Codes Enforcer of the
City of Carthage shall on all building permits for new residences, buildings,
structures, or places of business, excepting sheds and accessory buildings,
assign an address number consistent with this Section. On building permits
other than new construction, the Codes Enforcement Officer shall ensure that
the address listed thereon is consistent with this Section.
   (D)   At the time of issuance of the building permit, an address shall be
assigned subject to the approval of the Carthage City Council. Upon approval by
the Carthage City Council, all appropriate agencies shall be notified. Should
the City find that any building, structure, or premises is not provided with an
address, is not correctly addressed, or is not using the correct address, the
department shall notify the owner, agent or renter of the building, structure
or premises of the correct address. The address shall be properly placed in
accordance with the provisions of this Section by the effective date shown on
the notice. It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or renter to display,
advertise or use the wrong address after notification by the City. Whenever
there is doubt or difference of opinion as to the correct road designation or
correct address, the road designation or address shall be determined by the
Carthage City Council.
   (E)   Minor changes or corrections to numbers may be made administratively
by the Codes Enforcement Officer following the written request of a residential
or commercial occupant or by the Department in tl1e interest of public safety
and/or public benefit. In either case, the Codes Enforcement Officer shall
convene a review committee to include, but not be limited to, the City Engineer
and Representative of the police and fire departments. If the committee
determines that a change should be made, a proposed plan shall be prepared and
the affected neighborhood or commercial area notified for comment. The
committee shall review any comments received and determine if the public safety
interest is best served by the proposed change. Such determination must be made
prior to any such change being affected. The Carthage City Council shall have
the final determination.
   (F)   All newly annexed areas will be re-addressed if it is determined that
the existing addressing is inconsistent with the standards set forth in this
Section or street names duplicate existing city street names.
   (G)   The Carthage City Council shall be responsible for the development and
maintenance of maps indicating street names and house numbers.
   (H)   All new street and road signs in the City shall display street names
and block numbers in conformance with the provisions of this Section.
   (I)   The owner, occupant or renter of any addressed building, structure or
premises shall conspicuously display the address of each building or each front
entrance immediately above, on or at the side of the proper door so the number
can be plainly seen from the adjacent way-of-travel. If the building is not
clearly visible from an adjacent way-of-travel, the numbers shall be displayed
at the main entrance from the way-of-travel and each branch of private ways-of-
travel. Numbers shall be easily legible against a contrasting background and
shall be at least three inches (3") in height of a residential use or
individual multifamily unit, and at least five inches (5") high if a commercial
use.
   (J)   Any person failing to comply with the provision of this Section, or
affixing to or displaying upon any house or building any numbers other than
those assigned to the house or building, is guilty of an infraction punishable
by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation. When
the City determines that a violation exists, the City may issue or cause to be
issued a notice of violation to the person responsible for the violation. The
notice shall include:
      1.   The name and address of the person responsible for the violation;
      2.   The street or other description of the building, structure or
premises affected by the violation;
      3.   A description of the violation and the required corrective action;
      4.   A statement indicating that an infraction citation will be issued on
a date not less than ten (10) days from the date of the notice; and
      5.   A statement indicating that the citation will not be issued and not
monetary penalty assessed if the City approves the completed corrective action
at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the date designated for issuance of
the citation.
      The City shall serve or cause to be served the notice of violation upon
the person to whom it is directed, either personally or by mailing a copy of
the notice to such person at their last known address. If the person to whom
the notice is directed cannot after due diligence be so served, the notice
shall be served by posting a copy of the notice conspicuously on the affected
property or structure. Payment of the infraction pursuant to this Section does
not relieve the person to whom the infraction was issued of the duty to correct
the violation. (Ord. 2023-10, 4-9-2024)
CHAPTER 6
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Compliance Required
11-6-2: Streets
11-6-3: Curbs And Gutters
11-6-4: Sidewalks
11-6-5: Sewage Disposal And Water Supply
11-6-6: Storm Drainage
11-6-7: Public Utilities
11-6-8: Street Lighting
11-6-9: Landscape Development
11-6-10: Monuments And Markers
11-6-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Utility and street improvements shall be provided by the subdivider in each new
subdivision in accordance with the standards and requirements described in the
following sections. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-6-2: STREETS:
Streets shall be completed in accordance with the plans, profiles,
specifications and cross sections prepared by the subdivider by a registered
professional engineer and approved by the Codes Enforcement Officer, or
appointed official. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018 Code)
   (A)   The streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width of twenty two feet
(22') and may be wider when in the opinion of the commission a wider surface is
necessary. (Ord. 2011-8, 9-27-2011)
   (B)   Curb and gutter shall not be permitted to be installed along the edges
of surfaced streets of less than twenty eight feet (28') in width. (Ord. 70-1,
5-4-1970)
   (C)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the dimensions
required by the cross sections and the work shall be performed in the manner
prescribed in the current edition of the Illinois State Highway Specifications
and as may be prescribed in the zoning ordinance of the City in effect from
time to time. Streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width of twenty two feet
(22'). Cul-de-sac turnarounds shall be paved a minimum width of eighty feet
(80'). Grading for street improvements shall not create soil slopes exceeding a
vertical rise of one foot (1') for each two feet (2') of horizontal distance
unless retaining walls are to be provided. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. Ord.
2011-8, 9-27-2011)
   (D)   The street surface shall be of Portland cement concrete or a flexible
pavement, and shall be constructed in accordance with design characteristics at
least equal to those given below, and specifications approved by the Codes
Enforcement Officer, or appointed official. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970; amd. 2018
Code)
   (E)   Prior to the construction of street or alley pavements, adequate
surface and subsurface (if required) drainage facilities shall be installed by
the subdivider. Pipe used for drainage purposes shall be of bituminous coated
corrugated metal, reinforced concrete of an approved design, size and strength
to meet the requirements of the specific conditions which may be encountered.
Minimum diameters of pipe to be used shall be as follows:
 
Roadway crossdrains    18"
Entrance culverts      12"
Perforated underdrains 6"
 
   (F)   All construction shall be completed in accordance with the specific
conditions in the agreement for improvements and the accepted plans and
specifications, and in a manner acceptable to the authorities having
jurisdiction. When changes from the accepted plans and specifications become
necessary during construction, written approval from the authorities having
jurisdiction shall be secured prior to the execution of such changes.
   (G)   Adequate provision for the maintenance of all street improvements
shall be made by dedication to and acceptance for maintenance by the local
authorities having jurisdiction, or by other suitable means. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-
1970)
11-6-3: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
   (A)   Curbs and gutters shall be constructed in conjunction with the street
pavements on all streets where parking is to be permitted and shall be of air-
entrained Portland cement concrete at least eighteen inches (18") wide and not
less than six inches (6") thick or as required to meet requirements promulgated
by Illinois State Highway Specifications.
   (B)   Curb construction for concrete pavements may be integral, and roll-
type curbs may be permitted where the distance between the back of the curb and
the nearest sidewalk is at least three feet (3') on residential and feeder
streets.
   DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS OF STREET PAVEMENT
                 Type Of Street
Kind Of Pavement Major Highways And Collector Routes Local And Neighborhood
                 Arterial Streets3                   Streets And Alleys
                      Type Of Street
Kind Of Pavement      Major Highways And                    Local And
                      Arterial Streets3  Collector Routes   Neighborhood
                                                            Streets And Alleys
Concrete:                                                  
  Balanced design                        8"-51/2"-8" to 9"- 71/2"-5"-71/2"
  thickness1          Current IDOT       6"-9"
 Uniform design      61/2" to 71/4"                        6"
  thickness
Flexible2:                                                   
 Asphaltic surface                      3"                 2"
  course4
 Base:               Current IDOT                           
  Bituminous coated standards          4"                 4"
    aggregate
  Water-bound                          6"                 6"
    macadam
 
Notes:
   1.    Intersections to be of uniform design, using edge thickness.
   2.    For intersections and parking strips on residential streets, use
secondary street design characteristics.
   3.    Or as required to meet Illinois State Highway Department requirements.
   4.    Design mix of asphaltic surface course to be approved by the engineer
designated by the City.
   (C)   All plans for the installation of the curb and gutter shall be
approved by the engineer designated by the City and the commission.
   (D)   All street construction shall occur concurrently. Stage construction
occurring over more than one summer season shall require modification of the
amount of base material placed prior to final surfacing. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-6-4: SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   Sidewalks on each side of a street shall be provided within a
subdivision when the subdivision averages three and one-half (31/2) lots or
more per gross acre. Sidewalks shall be of Portland cement concrete with a
minimum thickness of four inches (4") on a four inch (4") gravel or crushed
stone base and a minimum width of four feet (4'), and the edge of walks
adjacent to the property line of the street shall be placed at least one foot
(1') from the property line.
   (B)   Crosswalks within the blocks shall be improved with a four foot (4')
walk of either Portland cement concrete four inches (4") thick or asphaltic
concrete two inches (2") thick on four inch (4") compacted aggregate base.
Extend base beyond sidewalk on either side to distance equal to depth of base.
   (C)   If for any reason sidewalks are not provided, the street grade shall
be completed so that additional grading will not be necessary for any future
provision of sidewalks. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-6-5: SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND WATER SUPPLY:
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide for the disposal of sewage in the
subdivision by a public collection system. In all cases, the subdivider shall
construct a sanitary sewer system which will connect to the public sewerage
system of the City and provide a connection to each lot. All sewer mains shall
be a minimum of eight inches (8") in size, and must conform to minimum
standards promulgated by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a source of water
for domestic use by a complete water main supply system which shall be
connected to the water facility system serving the City. Fire hydrants shall be
spaced a minimum of four hundred feet (400') apart. All water mains shall be a
minimum of six inches (6") in size. Fire hydrants are a City furnished item and
must be installed integrally with the installation of water mains.
   (C)   Plans and specifications for public and local sewage disposal and
water supply systems shall be prepared for the subdivider by a registered
professional engineer in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and the engineer designated by the City.
Private sewage disposal systems shall be installed in accordance with the
regulations of the local health authorities and the Illinois Department of
Public Health.
   (D)   The subdivider shall furnish the City a complete set of plans and
profiles as approved by the various authorities.
   (E)   The subdivider shall obtain approval from the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency for the sewage disposal and water supply system. (Ord. 70-1,
5-4-1970)
11-6-6: STORM DRAINAGE:
   (A)   Adequate surface and subsurface drainageways for the removal of
stormwater shall be provided by the subdivider. The extent to which storm
drainage facilities shall be required shall be based upon an analysis of need
prepared for the subdivider by a registered professional engineer. The analysis
shall be based upon the rational method of computing stormwater run-off using
the one-hour rainfall to be expected at a five (5) year frequency. Time of
concentration, soil infiltration rates, and other variable factors to be used
in the analysis shall be discussed with and approved by the engineer designated
by the City during the preliminary consideration of the subdivision.
   (B)   A stormwater sewer system, which shall be separate and independent of
the sanitary sewer system, with surface inlets, shall be provided by the
subdivider in all cases where curb and gutter are to be installed and whenever
the available evidence indicates that such a system is necessary due to the
inadequacy of the natural surface drainage.
   (C)   Any person proposing to locate a structure or a use within one hundred
feet (100') of any stream or main drainage channel in any zoning district,
shall include with the application for a building or use permit a statement by
a competent engineer, based on a study of the watershed area and the probable
run-off, that the structure or use in the location proposed will leave adequate
space for the flow of flood water; provided, however, that no building shall be
permitted within fifty feet (50') of the top of the bank of any stream or main
drainage channel.
   (D)   The subdivider shall furnish the City a complete set of plans and
profiles as approved by the various authorities. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-6-7: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   (A)   All utility lines for telephone, electric and cable television service
shall be provided for with rear and side lot line easements. Gas mains shall be
located within easements or public rights-of-way so as not to conflict with
other utilities.
   (B)   Where telephone, electric and/or cable television service lines are to
be placed underground throughout the subdivision, the conduit or cables shall
be located within easements or public rights-of-way in separate trenches, in a
manner which will not conflict with other underground services. Furthermore,
all transformers and terminal boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly
or hazardous to the public. The subdivider shall furnish to the City Clerk an
accurate map showing the location of all utilities to be provided.
   (C)   All excavations for public utilities made under paved areas shall be
properly backfilled with approved granular materials thoroughly compacted in
place, subject to the approval of the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 70-1, 5-
4-1970)
11-6-8: STREET LIGHTING:
   (A)   Provisions shall be made by the subdivider for the adequate lighting
of public streets within the subdivision in accordance with the standards and
requirements of the City and the electric utility.
   (B)   Street lights shall be provided with a maximum spacing of four hundred
feet (400') with concrete or steel poles connected by underground wiring. (Ord.
70-1, 5-4-1970)
11-6-9: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT:
All unpaved or otherwise unimproved areas within the public rights-of-way or
public use areas, shall be graded and seeded in an approved manner. (Ord. 70-1,
5-4-1970)
11-6-10: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
   (A)   Permanent monuments shall be set:
      1.   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision.
      2.   At the intersection of street property lines and at the beginning
and end of all curves along street property lines.
      3.   In slope areas at principal changes in alignment in the boundary of
the subdivision.
   (B)   Markers shall be set, unless otherwise located by a monument:
      1.   At all points where lot lines intersect street right-of-way lines.
      2.   At all angles in the lot property lines.
      3.   At all other lot corners.
   (C)   Monuments shall be of concrete with minimum dimensions of four inches
by four inches (4" x 4") at the top and six inches by six inches (6" x 6") at
the bottom and thirty six inches (36") in length, and shall be marked at the
top with either a copper or steel dowel imbedded so that the top of the dowel
shall be flush with the top surface at the center of the monument. Markers
shall consist of galvanized steel or wrought iron pipe or steel bars at least
eighteen inches (18") in length and three-quarters inch (3/4") in outside
diameter.
   (D)   Monuments and markers shall be provided by the subdivider and so
placed that the center point shall coincide with the intersection of lines to
be marked and the top level with the surface of the surrounding ground after
final grading. (Ord. 70-1, 5-4-1970)
 
