VILLAGE CODE
OF
CERRO GORDO, IL
Code current through:
Ord. 696-2025, passed 6-16-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Cerro Gordo, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 696-2025, passed June 16, 2025, and a resolution
passed March 21, 2005. Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance
supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict
or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village office in order to ascertain
whether any particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or
repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 574-2012
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE VILLAGE OF CERRO
GORDO, ILLINOIS; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE
MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE
SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE
   WHEREAS, the village of Cerro Gordo ("village") previously adopted a code of
ordinances, titled the "Code Of Ordinances, Village Of Cerro Gordo, Illinois"
("Code Of Ordinances") on August 21, 1995, pursuant to ordinance no. 423; and
   WHEREAS, the code of ordinances has not been formally updated in book format
since August 21, 1995; and
   WHEREAS, the Illinois municipal code requires that the village record in a
book, the ordinances passed by the corporate authorities of the village, 65
ILCS 5/1-2-5; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of this ordinance to replace the previously
adopted code of ordinances with a new code of ordinances to be effective on the
date of adoption of this ordinance.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the president and board of trustees of the
village of Cerro Gordo, Piatt County, state of Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1. Recitals Incorporated. The above recitals are incorporated herein
as though fully set forth.
   Section 2. New Code Adopted. The code entitled "Code Of Ordinances, Village
Of Cerro Gordo, Illinois," published by Sterling Codifiers, consisting of
titles 1 through 12, each inclusive, is adopted.
   Section 3. Ordinances Enacted Before July 16, 2012. All ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted before July 16, 2012, and not included in
the code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are
repealed.
   Section 4. Repeal Of Subsequent Ordinances. The repeal provided for in
section 3 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof
that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this
ordinance.
   Section 5. Penalty Not Provided For In Code. Unless another penalty is
expressly provided, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
the code or any ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance
thereof shall be punished by a fine $750.00 and incarceration for a period not
exceeding six months. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such
violation shall continue or occur shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided,
shall apply to the amendment of any code section, whether or not such penalty
is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed
above, the village may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances,
injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
   Section 6. Additions Or Amendments To The Code. Any and all additions or
amendments to the code when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of
the village of Cerro Gordo to make the same a part of the code shall be deemed
to be incorporated in the code, so that reference to the code includes the
additions and amendments.
   Section 7. Ordinances Adopted On Or After July 16, 2012. All ordinances
adopted on or after July 16, 2012, which amend or refer to ordinances that have
been codified in the code shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like
provisions of the code.
   Section 8. Severability And Repeal Of Inconsistent Ordinances. If any
section, paragraph, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be held
invalid, the invalidity thereof shall not affect any of the other provisions of
this ordinance. All existing ordinances of the village of Cerro Gordo are
hereby repealed insofar as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this
ordinance.
   Section 9. Effective Date. The clerk of the village of Cerro Gordo shall
certify to the adoption of this ordinance and shall cause it to be published in
pamphlet form and this ordinance shall take effect upon its approval and
publication in pamphlet form as so certified.
   PASSED this 16th day of July, 2012
TRUSTEES:
AYE:    
NAY:    
ABSENT:    
TOTALS: AYE -      NAY -      ABSENT -     
   APPROVED this 16th day of July, 2012
Brad Williams, Village President
ATTEST:
Linda Ash, Village Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CERRO GORDO VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Cerro Gordo.
This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CERRO GORDO VILLAGE
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2012 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2012 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2012 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2012 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2012 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2012 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Cerro Gordo".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2012 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees of
the village of Cerro Gordo.
CODE: The village code of the village of Cerro Gordo.
COUNTY: The county of Piatt, state of Illinois.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Cerro Gordo, county of Piatt, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2012 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2012
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
code, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not exceeding seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty
or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      2.   Additional Penalties: In addition to the fine described in
subsection A1 of this section, the circuit court may impose a period of
"conditional discharge", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4,
or "court supervision", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21,
for a period of up to six (6) months, an order of restitution, an order to
perform community service, an order to complete an education program and/or any
other appropriate penalties or conditions authorized in any section of this
code or stand alone ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set
forth in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to
time.
      3.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection,
to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      4.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The village attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the
village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the
village attorney under this subsection A4 shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2012 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2012 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village President
1-5-2: Village Trustees
1-5-3: Meetings
1-5-4: Quorum; Compelling Attendance
1-5-5: Order Of Business
1-5-6: Rules Of Procedure
1-5-7: Committees
1-5-1: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Election And Term: The village president shall be elected for a term of
four (4) years, and he shall be the president of the board of trustees as is
provided by statute. (1995 Code § 1.101)
   B.   Bond; Oath; Compensation: Before entering upon the duties of his
office, the president shall give a bond, with sureties to be approved by the
board, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties, as required by
statute, for an amount to be set by the village board. He shall take the oath
of office prescribed by statute and shall receive such compensation as may be
set from time to time by ordinance. (1995 Code § 1.104)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The president shall be the chief executive officer
of the village, and he shall perform all duties that may be required of him by
statute or ordinance. He shall have supervision over all the executive officers
and employees of the village; provided, that with the approval of the board,
the supervision of any employee of the village may be delegated to the
chairperson of the respective committee having jurisdiction of the activity in
which the employee is engaged. The president shall have the power and authority
to inspect all books and records kept by any officer or employee at any
reasonable time. (1995 Code § 1.102)
   D.   Designation Of Duties: Whenever there is a question as to the
respective duties and powers of any appointed officer, this shall be settled by
the president, and he shall have the power to delegate to any such officer any
duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to
perform that duty. (1995 Code § 1.103)
   E.   President Pro Tem: During a temporary absence or disability of the
president, the board shall elect one of its number to act as president pro tem
who, during the absence or disability of the president, shall perform the
duties pertaining to the office. (1995 Code § 1.105)
1-5-2: VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
   A.   Election And Term: The village board shall consist of six (6) trustees
who shall be elected to office for a four (4) year term as provided by statute.
   B.   Oath And Compensation: The trustees shall take the oath of office
prescribed by statute and shall receive such compensation as may be set from
time to time by ordinance.
   C.   The annual salary of the Board President for his performance of the
duties of that office shall be $4,000.00, which shall include attendance at
official meetings and community meetings. Salary payments shall be paid
quarterly.
   D.   The village Trustees shall be paid $100.00 for each regularly scheduled
meeting which they attend. Salary payments shall be paid annually. (1995 Code
§§ 1.201, 1.202; amd. Ord. 686-2024, 6-17-2024)
1-5-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the board of trustees shall
be held on the third Monday of each month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M., and no
notice of such regular meeting shall be required, except notice required by
statute if requested by news media. The meeting place of the board shall be the
village hall unless otherwise ordered by the board. (Ord. 573-2012, 7-16-2012,
eff. 8-19-2012)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the president or
any three (3) trustees upon at least forty eight (48) hours' notice to all
members and the president, which notice may be given by communicating the same
personally to the president and each trustee or by mailing to or leaving at
his/her usual place of residence written notice thereof; provided, that if the
president and all of the trustees are present at a meeting, no notice of the
meeting shall be necessary, and such notice shall be deemed waived. The news
media and public shall be notified according to state statutes and village
policy. (1995 Code § 1.203(b))
   C.   Adjourned Meetings: The board shall have the power to have adjourned
meetings. (1995 Code § 1.203(c))
   D.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the village board at which any legal
action is taken shall be open to the public. All requirements of the state open
meetings act and village policy relating thereto will be observed. (1995 Code
§§ 1.203(d), 1.209)
1-5-4: QUORUM; COMPELLING ATTENDANCE:
   A.   Quorum: A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a
quorum to do business. A smaller number, however, may adjourn from time to time
and may compel the attendance of absentees. (1995 Code § 1.204(a))
   B.   Compelling Attendance: In the case of the want of a quorum, if a
majority of the corporate authorities present shall direct, the president or
the presiding officer shall direct a police officer to go out and arrest and
bring in any and all absent members who can be found in the village who are not
unable through illness to attend. Any member who purposely absents himself from
the village to avoid attending a meeting of the board or, being in the village,
conceals himself from such officer or refuses to be brought in when found,
shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct and be subject to a fine of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for each such offense. The board may, upon a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) thereof, expel such member, in which event, his seat shall be
deemed vacant and be filled in accordance with law. (1995 Code § 1.204(b))
1-5-5: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   The order of business of the village board of trustees shall be as
follows:
      1.   Call meeting to order.
      2.   Public participation.
      3.   Consent agenda.
         a.   Approval of minutes.
         b.   Approval of financial and claims reports.
         c.   Officer and department head reports.
      4.   Old business.
      5.   New business.
      6.   Trustee reports.
      7.   Other business.
      8.   Adjournment. (1995 Code § 1.210; amd. 2012 Code)
1-5-6: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Presiding Officer; Voting: The president shall preside at all meetings
of the board and at all times when the board meets as a committee of the whole.
Except as otherwise provided by law, he shall not vote on any ordinance,
resolution or motion except: 1) where the vote of the trustees has resulted in
a tie; or 2) where one-half (1/2) of the trustees elected have voted in favor
of an ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie vote; or 3)
where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities is required
by statute to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion. In each instance
specified, the president shall vote. Nothing in this subsection shall deprive
an acting president or president pro tem from voting in his capacity as
trustee, but he shall not be entitled to another vote in his capacity as acting
president or president pro tem. (1995 Code § 1.205)
   B.   Resolutions: Any resolutions submitted to the board shall be reduced to
writing before being voted upon, on request by any two (2) members of the
board. (1995 Code § 1.212)
   C.   Vote Required: The passage of all ordinances, for whatever purpose, and
of any resolution or motion: 1) to create any liability against the village; or
2) for the expenditure or appropriation of its money; or 3) to sell any village
property shall require the concurrence of a majority of all the members elected
to the board, including the president, unless otherwise especially provided by
statute. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
the aforesaid designated ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the
minutes of the board. (1995 Code § 1.206; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the board shall be rescinded at
any special meeting unless there be present at such special meeting as many
members of the board as were present at the meeting when such vote or action
was taken, as is provided by statute. (1995 Code § 1.211)
   E.   Rules Of Order:
      1.   "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the deliberations of the
board of trustees except when in conflict with any of the rules of this
section. (1995 Code § 1.215)
      2.   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be
suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the members present at
any meeting. (1995 Code § 1.214)
   F.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the president or a member of
the board shall address that body at any regular or special meeting except upon
consent of a majority of the members present. (1995 Code § 1.213)
   G.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the board or of any committee thereof. Any person violating the
provisions of this subsection shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. (1995 Code §
1.208)
1-5-7: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees:
      1.   The following shall be standing committees of the board with the
number of members on each:
 
Finance                2
Ordinance              2
Public grounds         2
Public health and fire 7
Water and sewer        2
Streets and alleys     2
Economic Development   2
 
      2.   The responsibilities for various departments, activities and
functions for each committee will be defined by the village president.
   B.   Special Committees: Special committees shall be created from time to
time as directed by the board.
   C.   Appointment: All committees and their chairpersons shall be appointed
by the president, by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
(1995 Code §§ 1.207, 1.207(a), and 1.207(b); Ord. 673, 4-18-2022)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Term; Compensation
1-6-2: Bond
1-6-3: Powers And Duties
1-6-4: Corporate Seal
1-6-5: Deputy Clerk
1-6-1: ELECTION; TERM; COMPENSATION:
The village clerk shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and until
his successor is elected and qualified, as is provided by statute, and he shall
receive such compensation as may be set from time to time by the board of
trustees by ordinance. (1995 Code § 1.301)
1-6-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the village clerk shall execute
a bond in the sum set by the village board. (1995 Code § 1.302)
1-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Signatures: The clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
village, and all licenses, permits and other documents as shall require this
formality. (1995 Code § 1.303)
   B.   Monies Collected: The clerk shall turn over all monies received by him
on behalf of the village to the village treasurer promptly on receipt of the
same, and with such monies, he shall give a statement as to the source thereof.
(1995 Code § 1.305)
   C.   Accounts: The clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies received by
him and the source and disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance. (1995 Code § 1.306)
   D.   Records: In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register of all
licenses and permits issued and the payments thereon, a record showing all of
the officers and regular employees of the village, and such other records as
may be required by the board. (1995 Code § 1.307)
   E.   Documents: The clerk shall be the custodian of all instruments
belonging to the village which are not assigned to the custody of some other
officer. (1995 Code § 1.308)
   F.   Index: The clerk shall keep and maintain an index to all ordinances,
documents, instruments and records kept by him in such manner that ready access
thereto and use thereof may be had. (1995 Code § 1.309)
   G.   Additional Duties: The clerk shall perform such other duties and
functions as may be required by statute or by the board. (1995 Code § 1.310)
1-6-4: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the village shall be the seal heretofore used for the
village, a disk within a circle formed by the words "Village of Cerro Gordo,
Cerro Gordo, Illinois". The clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal
and shall affix its impression on documents whenever this is required. (1995
Code § 1.304)
1-6-5: DEPUTY CLERK:
The clerk is hereby authorized to appoint one deputy clerk who shall have the
power and duty to execute all documents required by any law to be executed by
the clerk and affix the seal of the village thereto whenever required, such
deputy clerk to act at such times as hereinafter provided. In signing any
documents, the deputy clerk shall sign the name of the clerk followed with the
words "By" and the deputy clerk's own name and the words "Deputy Clerk". The
powers and duties described herein shall be exercised by such deputy clerk only
in the absence of the clerk from the clerk's office, and only when either
written direction has been given by the clerk to such deputy to exercise such
power or the village board has determined by resolution that the clerk is
temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such functions. The deputy
clerk shall also have the authority and powers usually exercised by the clerk
and such further powers and authority as provided by statute and such further
powers and authority as may hereinafter be granted pursuant to statute. (1995
Code § 1.311)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Application Of Provisions
1-7-2: Appointments; Terms; Vacancies
1-7-3: Oath; Bond; Compensation
1-7-4: Books And Records To Successor
1-7-5: Open Records
1-7-6: Arrest Powers
1-7-7: Workers' Compensation Coverage
1-7-8: Retirement
1-7-9: Impersonation, Interference With Officers And Personnel Prohibited
1-7-10: Specific Officers And Personnel
1-7-11: Paid Leave
1-7-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers and employees
of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or
position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee. (1995 Code
§ 1.401)
1-7-2: APPOINTMENTS; TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Appointments: All officers, other than elective officers, shall be
appointed by the president, by and with the advice and consent of the board,
and all employees shall be appointed or selected by the president. (1995 Code §
1.402)
   B.   Terms Of Office:
      1.   The terms of all elective officers, except in cases of elections to
fill vacancies, shall commence immediately following the adjournment of the
regular meeting of the board on the first Monday in the month of May following
such election.
      2.   The terms of all officers elected to fill a vacancy shall commence
immediately upon the qualification of such elected officer for such office in
accordance with law.
      3.   The terms of all appointive officers and employees shall commence
upon appointment and qualification for said office as provided by law.
      4.   Every appointive officer and each employee shall hold office during
the pleasure of the president and board except as otherwise provided by
statute. (1995 Code § 1.409)
   C.   Vacancies:
      1.   Where no other provision is made by statute or ordinance for the
contingency, in the event of the temporary absence or disability of any officer
or employee of the village, the president may designate some other officer or
employee as deputy pro tem for the office or position. The person so designated
as deputy pro tem shall have all the powers and duties of the officer or
employee for whom he is such temporary deputy, during the time covered by such
appointment by the president, until the return of the officer or employee to
duty.
      2.   To ensure continuity and avoid interruption in the administration of
the village government, in the case of a vacancy in any office or position in
the village government, the president may appoint a deputy pro tem to perform
the duties of the office or position so vacant until a successor may be
selected and qualified in the manner provided by law. (1995 Code § 1.106)
1-7-3: OATH; BOND; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Oath Of Office: Every officer of the village shall, before entering
upon his duties, take the oath prescribed by statute. (1995 Code § 1.411)
   B.   Bond: Every officer and employee shall, if required by the board, upon
entering upon the duties of his office, give a bond in such amount and with
such sureties as may be determined by the said board, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of his office or position. (1995 Code §
1.414)
   C.   Salary: All officers and employees of the village shall receive such
salary as may be from time to time provided by ordinance. (1995 Code § 1.412)
1-7-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR:
Every officer and employee of the village, upon the expiration of his term for
any cause whatsoever, shall immediately deliver to the village clerk all books
and records which may be the property of the village. (1995 Code § 1.410)
1-7-5: OPEN RECORDS:
All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open to inspection by
the president or any member of the board at all reasonable times, whether or
not such records are required to be kept by statute or ordinance. (1995 Code §
1.413)
1-7-6: ARREST POWERS:
The president and members of the board of trustees, as well as every member of
the police department, are hereby declared to be peace officers with such
powers to make arrests as are given to peace officers by statute. (1995 Code §
1.415)
1-7-7: WORKERS' COMPENSATION COVERAGE:
The village shall provide workers' compensation coverage for all employees,
elected officials, and appointed officials while in the exercise of their
official duties. (1995 Code § 1.416; amd. 2012 Code)
1-7-8: RETIREMENT:
   A.   All officers and employees who work more than one thousand (1,000)
hours annually shall be covered by the Illinois municipal retirement system,
effective January 1, 1980.
   B.   Elective officers shall have the option to participate in accordance
with article 7 of Illinois pension code. (1995 Code § 1.417)
1-7-9: IMPERSONATION, INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL PROHIBITED:
   A.   Impersonation: It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate
without lawful authority any village officer or employee. Any person violating
this subsection shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1995 Code § 1.418; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Interference: It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any
officer or employee of the village while engaged in the duties of his office or
employment. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
subsection shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1995 Code § 1.419; amd. 2012 Code)
1-7-10: SPECIFIC OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   Village Treasurer: The village treasurer shall be appointed as provided
in article A of this chapter. (1995 Code § 1.403)
   B.   Building Inspector: The building inspector shall be appointed by the
president as provided in subsection
1-7-2A of this chapter. His/her duties shall be designated by ordinances and
policies adopted by the board. His/her primary responsibilities shall be to
enforce the zoning ordinance and the mobile home park ordinance and assist with
administering the site development ordinance. (Ord. 466, 11-5-2001, eff. 11-5-
2001)
   C.   Police: The police shall be appointed as provided in section 6-1-2 of
this code. (1995 Code § 1.405)
   D.   Director Of Public Works: The director of public works shall be
appointed by the president, by and with the consent of the board of trustees.
His/her duties shall be as provided by ordinances and policies adopted by the
board of trustees and those assigned to him/her by the village president. (1995
Code § 1.408)
   E.   Assistant To The President: Whenever the president and the board of
trustees deem it necessary and expedient for the best interests of the village
that an assistant to the president be hired on a part time basis:
      1.   The president is authorized to employ an assistant to the president
for an annual salary as may from time to time be provided by ordinance.
      2.   The president is authorized to sign a contract with the person
selected as assistant to the president.
      3.   The duties of the assistant to the president shall be as assigned by
the president.
   F.   Administrative Assistant: The administrative assistant shall be
appointed by the president, with the consent of the board of trustees. His or
her duties shall be provided by the policies and job description of the village
of Cerro Gordo, and assigned to him or her by the village clerk. (1995 Code §
1.407) (amd. Ord. 656-2020, 2-17-2020)
1-7-11: PAID LEAVE:
   A.   Pursuant to Section 15(p) of the PLAWA, for full-time, permanent
Village employees, paid leave shall continue to be provided in accordance with
and as set forth in the Village’s Personnel and Policy Manual, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
   B.   This section is a municipal ordinance under Section 15(p) of the PLAWA
requiring the Village, as an employer, to provide paid leave to part-time and
temporary employees in accordance with this section, as follows:
      1.   Employees shall be granted one hour of paid leave for every hour
worked or anticipated to be worked in a workweek per 12-month period, with
accrual capped at 40 hours of paid leave per 12-month period or the prorated
amount based on actual anticipated hours worked. Paid leave shall begin upon
the start of employment or January 1, 2024, whichever is later. Paid time off
may be used for any reason, and an employee is not required to disclose the
reason for the use of paid time off.
      2.   Employees may not carryover any accrued but unused paid leave to the
following period unless otherwise provided to employees in the Personnel and
Procedure Manual previously adopted by the Village, and as may be adopted from
time to time.
      3.   The Village may be unable to grant a request for time off based on
operational needs of the Village, including but not limited to, maintaining
required staffing levels to serve Village residents, to meet seasonal demands,
and/or to ensure that safety objectives are met. In the event an employee’s
request is denied, employees can re-submit their request for an alternative
date.
      4.   If the use of paid leave is foreseeable, the employee must give the
Village at least seven (7) days’ notice of the planned leave. Failure to
provide such notice may be grounds for delay or denial of the leave. Where the
need for leave is not foreseeable, the employee is expected to notify the
Village as soon as practicable.
      5.   Paid leave will be paid at the employee’s base pay rate at the time
the leave is taken, or the required minimum wage, whichever is higher. Paid
leave is not included in overtime calculations and does not include any special
forms of compensation such as incentives, commissions, or bonuses. Employees
will not be paid any accrued but unused paid leave upon the employee’s
termination, resignation, or retirement unless the leave is credited to the
employee’s vacation leave.
      6.   Employees are entitled to begin using the paid leave immediately.
Paid leave must be used in increments of at least two (2) hours
   C.   Except as provided for in this section, the Village, as an employer,
shall have no additional obligations with regard to mandatory paid leave under
the PLAWA. (Ord. 684-2023, 12-18-2024)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created; Appointment; Compensation; Bond
1-7A-2: Duties
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; BOND:
There is hereby created the office of village treasurer, who shall be appointed
by the president, by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
as is provided by statute, and who shall receive such compensation as may be
set from time to time by the board. The treasurer shall enter into a bond to
the village conditioned on the faithful discharge of his duties according to
law for an amount as set by the board. (1995 Code § 2.201)
1-7A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed
by statute or ordinance. He shall receive all monies paid to the village either
directly from the person paying the money or from the hands of such other
officer or employee as may receive it, and, excepting trust and agency funds,
he shall pay out money only on warrants properly signed by the village
president and village clerk. He shall deposit the village funds in such
depositories as prescribed in section
3-1-2 of this code. He shall keep the deposit of the village money separate and
distinct from his own money, and shall not make private or personal use of any
village money. (Ord. 503, 6-20-2006, eff. 6-20-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Records: The treasurer shall keep records showing all monies received
by him, showing the source from which received and the purpose for which paid,
and he shall keep records at all times showing the financial status of the
village and such books and accounts as may be required by statute or ordinance,
and he shall keep them in the manner required by the board of trustees. He
shall keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders filed with him or paid
by him, and all vouchers as is required by statute. These records and accounts
shall always be subject to the inspection of the president and village
trustees. (1995 Code § 2.203)
   C.   Reports:
      1.   Monthly Report: At the end of every month, the treasurer shall
render an account to the village board showing the state of the treasury. This
monthly financial report shall include statements of monies received, monies
expended, and the balance of money in the treasury for each fund. (1995 Code §
2.501)
      2.   Annual Report:
         a.   Each fiscal year, as required by statute, the treasurer shall
make out and file with the clerk a full and detailed account of all village
receipts and expenditures, and of all his transactions as treasurer during the
preceding fiscal year, and he shall show in that account the state of the
treasury at the close of the fiscal year as required by statute, including:
            (1)   All monies received by the village, indicating the total
amounts, in the aggregate, received in each account of the village, with a
general statement of the source of receipts. The term "account", for the
purpose of this subsection C2a(1), shall not mean an individual taxpayer,
householder, licensee, utility user or other person whose payments to the
village are credited to a general account.
            (2)   All monies paid out by the village where the total amount
paid during the fiscal year exceeds two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00), in the aggregate, giving the name of each person to whom monies
were paid and the total paid to each person; except, that where monies paid out
by the village are as compensation for personal services, the treasurer may
elect to report the compensation for personal services of all personnel by name
by listing each employee in one of the following categories:
      Under $25,000.00;
      $25,000.00 to $49,999.99;
      $50,000.00 to $74,999.99;
      $75,000.00 to $99,999.99;
      $100,000.00 to $124,999.99; or
      $125,000.00 and over.
            (3)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account
groups of the village, as excerpted from the annual financial report as filed
with the appropriate state agency. (1995 Code § 2.503; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   The clerk shall publish the account at least once, within ten
(10) days, in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
village. (1995 Code § 2.503)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-8-3: Gifts
1-8-4: Penalties
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given the following
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
b) relating to collective bargaining; or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the minimum
work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Cerro Gordo, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Cerro Gordo.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment; b) service credit towards pension benefits; and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; b) relating to collective bargaining; or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer; or 2) by an employee; or
3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer; or 2) with
an employee; or 3) with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer; or 2) by an employee;
3) or by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee;
   E.   Is registered or required to be registered with the secretary of state
under the lobbyist registration act; except, that an entity not otherwise a
prohibited source does not become a prohibited source merely because a
registered lobbyist is one of its members or serves on its board of directors;
or
   F.   Is an agent of, a spouse of, or an immediate family member who is
living with a prohibited source. (Ord. 482, 4-19-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-8-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined in section
1-8-1 of this chapter. No officer or employee shall intentionally use any
property or resources of the village in connection with any prohibited
political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties; 2) as a condition of employment;
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position, the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 482, 4-19-2004)
1-8-3: GIFTS:
   A.   Gift Ban: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as defined in section
1-8-1 of this chapter, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any:
            (1)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the election code;
or
            (2)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of
a political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son- in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiancé or fiancée.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            (2)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            (3)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection B1h, "catered"
means food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are
delivered by any means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this subsection B1j, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an
officer or employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental
gift" means any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee
of another governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 482, 4-19-2004)
1-8-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Of Section
1-8-2:
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-8-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      2.   A violation of section
1-8-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village by filing in the circuit court any information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   B.   Violations Of Section
1-8-3:
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-8-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00). (Ord. 482, 4-19-2004)
      2.   A violation of section
1-8-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village. (Ord. 482, 4-19-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Intentional False Reports: Any person who intentionally makes a false
report alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter to the local
enforcement authorities, the state's attorney or any other law enforcement
official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty
four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   Additional Enforcement: In addition to any other penalty that may be
applicable, whether criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally
violates any provision of section
1-8-2 or
1-8-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 482, 4-19-
2004)
CHAPTER 9
TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Travel Expenses
1-9-3: Approval
1-9-4: Maximum Allowed
1-9-5: Entertainment
1-9-6: Expenses And Forms
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
TRAVEL: Means any expenditure directly incident to official travel by Board
members, employees and officers of the Village of Cerro Gordo or by wards or
charges of the Village of Cerro Gordo involving reimbursement to travelers or
direct payment to private agencies providing transportation or related
services. (Ord. 615-2016, 10-17-2016, eff. 3-2-2017)
1-9-2: TRAVEL EXPENSES:
The Village of Cerro Gordo shall reimburse permitted travel expenses as set
forth in subsection 1-9-6A of chapter. (Ord. 615-2016, 10-17-2016, eff. 3-2-
2017)
1-9-3: APPROVAL:
The Village of Cerro Gordo shall only approve reimbursement of expenses if the
Board member, officer or employee submits said expenses on the Village's
Reimbursement Request Form, as set forth in subsection
1-9-6B of this chapter. All documents submitted to the Village of Cerro Gordo
for reimbursement are public records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act, unless otherwise protected under that Act. (Ord. 615-2016, 10-
17-2016, eff. 3-2-2017)
1-9-4: MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: a) any officer or employee that
exceeds the maximum allowed under the regulations adopted under section
1-9-2 of this chapter or b) any member of the Board of Trustees of the Village
of Cerro Gordo may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the
Board of Trustees of Cerro Gordo. However, in the event of an emergency or
other extraordinary circumstances, the Board of Trustees may approve more than
the maximum allowable expenses set forth above. (Ord. 615-2016, 10-17-2016,
eff. 3-2-2017)
1-9-5: ENTERTAINMENT:
The Village of Cerro Gordo may not reimburse any Village Board member,
employee, or officer for any entertainment expense unless such expense is
ancillary to the purpose of the program or event. (Ord. 615-2016, 10-17-2016,
eff. 3-2-2017)
1-9-6: EXPENSES AND FORMS:
   A.   Permissible Travel Expenses: The Village of Cerro Gordo shall only
reimburse travel expenses, including transportation, meals and lodging that are
ancillary or otherwise necessary for official Village business. Types of
official Village business for which travel expenses may be reimbursed include
conferences, trainings, meetings, citizen events, board or administrator
events, lobbying or other government relations activities, or any other event
or program that is attended to benefit the Village of Cerro Gordo.
The maximum reimbursable rates for travel are set forth as follows:
Maximum reimbursable rates for transportation:
 Air travel                          Lowest reasonable rate (coach)
 Auto                                $0.54/mile (IRS standard mileage rate)
 Rental car                          Lowest reasonable rate (midsize)
 Rail or bus                         Lowest reasonable rate and cost shall not
                                      exceed airfare
 Taxi, shuttle, rideshare, or public Actual reasonable rate
  transportation
Maximum reimbursable rates for meals - plus tax:
 Breakfast
 Lunch
 Dinner
Maximum reimbursable rates for lodging - plus tax:
 Chicago and Suburban Cook County
 DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will Counties
 All other Illinois counties
 Outside of Illinois
 
The following expenses shall not be reimbursable: alcoholic beverages, personal
items, travel insurance, supplemental rental car charges (insurance, locksmith,
luxury vehicles, extra baggage charges, laundry, tips, parking or traffic
tickets).
   B.   Travel Expense Reimbursement Request Form: Before an expense for
travel, meals, or lodging may be approved, the following minimum documentation
must first be submitted, in writing, to the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Cerro Gordo:
(1)    The name of the individual who received or is requesting the travel,
meal, or lodging expense and the individual's job title or office.
      Name
      Job Title/Office
(2)    The date or dates and nature of the official Village business in which
the travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended. Please attach
supporting documentation describing the nature of the official Village business
event or program.
      Name of Event or Program      Date(s) of Event or Program
      Location of Event or Program   Purpose of Event or Program
(3)    An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses have
not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or lodging if
the expenses have already been incurred. Please attach either (a) a document
explaining the basis for your estimate if expenses have not yet been incurred
or (b) receipts if the expenses have already been incurred.
You may also provide such other documentation as would assist the Board of
Trustees in considering your request for reimbursement. In the discretion of
the Board of Trustees, additional documentation relevant to the request for
reimbursement may be required prior to action by the Board of Trustees with
respect to the reimbursement request.
         Name
         Date
(Ord. 615-2016, 10-17-2016, eff. 3-2-2017)
CHAPTER 10
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Prohibition
1-10-2: Definition
1-10-3: Complaint Procedures
1-10-4: Prohibition Against Retaliation
1-10-5: Violation
1-10-1: PROHIBITION:
Sexual harassment is hereby prohibited. The Village of Cerro Gordo shall
provide a workplace environment free of unwelcome sexual advances, requests for
sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct, or communications
constituting harassment on the basis of sex as defined by State and Federal
law. (Ord. 634-2018, 1-15-2018)
1-10-2: DEFINITION:
Sexual harassment is any unwelcome sexual advance or request for sexual favors,
or any unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, when: a) submission to such
conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an
individual's employment or related activities; b) submission to or rejection of
such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment decisions
affecting such individual; or c) such conduct has the purpose or effect of
substantially interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an
intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment. (Ord. 634-2018, 1-15-
2018)
1-10-3: COMPLAINT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Employees who are subject to sexual harassment, if they feel
comfortable doing so, may directly inform the person engaging in the harassing
conduct or communication that such conduct or communication is offensive and
must stop. No employee subject to sexual harassment is required to confront a
person engaging in such conduct.
   B.   Complaints of sexual harassment should be made to either of the Village
of Cerro Gordo Complaint Managers. The Complaint Managers shall be appointed by
the Village President. The name, address, email, and telephone number of the
Complaint Managers shall be provided to all employees at the time of hire and
any time a new Complaint Manager(s) is appointed.
   C.   If the person making the complaint does not feel comfortable making a
complaint to the Complaint Manager(s), the complaint may be made to the Village
President or directly to the Illinois Department of Human Rights.
   D.   Employees may choose to make complaints to a person of the employee's
same sex.
   E.   Any elected official of the Village of Cerro Gordo who believes that he
or she has been sexually harassed by another elected official of the Village
may file a complaint with the Village President. If the Village President is
the reporting person or is implicated by the allegation, the report can be made
to any other elected official of the Village. Any report under this section
must be referred to the Village's legal counsel. The Village's legal counsel
shall promptly appoint a qualified independent attorney or consultant to review
and investigate the allegations. The Village President is hereby authorized and
directed to implement and administer this chapter in accordance with applicable
law.
   F.   There is no express time limit for reporting claims of sexual
harassment. However, efforts should be made to report complaints as soon as
possible, while facts are known and potential witnesses are available.
   G.   To the extent possible, the complaint shall be treated as confidential.
(Ord. 634-2018, 1-15-2018; amd. Ord. 654-2020, 1-20-2020)
1-10-4: PROHIBITION AGAINST RETALIATION:
Retaliation against any person who, in good faith, brings forth a bona fide
complaint of sexual harassment or who provides information about sexual
harassment is prohibited pursuant to the State Officials and Employees Ethics
Act 1 , the Whistleblower Protection Act 2 , and the Illinois Human Rights Act
3 . (Ord. 634-2018, 1-15-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/1 et seq.
3 3. 775 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
1-10-5: VIOLATION:
Any employee violating this chapter may be subject to discipline, up to and
including dismissal. Any person making a knowingly false accusation regarding
harassment shall be subject to discipline, up to and including dismissal from
employment. (Ord. 634-2018, 1-15-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created
2-1-2: Membership; Appointment; Term
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED:
A park and recreation board is hereby created in accordance with 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-95-3. (1995 Code § 11.101; amd. 2012 Code)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The board shall be composed of five (5) members, who shall reside within the
residential boundaries of Cerro Gordo Community Unit School District No. 100,
appointed by the president, with the consent of the village board. The term of
office is five (5) years. (1995 Code § 11.102; amd. Ord. 670-2021, 10-18-2021)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
The board shall establish offices, and elect officers necessary to carry out
its responsibilities. (1995 Code § 11.103)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The board shall supervise the village recreation program and advise the
village board on the maintenance and operation of the village park system.
(1995 Code § 11.104)
   B.   The board shall be responsible for receiving and expending funds
designated for recreational purposes and for accounting for the same. Funds
shall be deposited in one or more local financial institutions. (1995 Code §
11.105)
   C.   The village board is authorized to levy a special tax authorized for
recreational purposes 1 . (1995 Code § 11.106)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-95-8.
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Fiscal Year
3-1-2: Organization Of Village Finances
3-1-3: Finance Committee
3-1-4: Indebtedness
3-1-5: Revenues
3-1-6: Expenditures
3-1-7: Annual Audit
3-1-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The village financial planning and reporting procedures shall be based on a
fiscal year that commences on May 1 in each calendar year and ends on April 30
in the following year. (1995 Code § 2.102)
3-1-2: ORGANIZATION OF VILLAGE FINANCES:
The village monies shall be received and kept by the treasurer in such funds as
are from time to time required by law or by the village board. The American
Bank Of Cerro Gordo shall be depository in which the funds and monies of the
village shall be deposited. (1995 Code § 2.101; amd. 2012 Code)
3-1-3: FINANCE COMMITTEE:
The finance committee shall be responsible for preparing the appropriation
ordinance and the annual tax levy ordinance as well as overseeing the
preparation of the village's annual audit by outside auditors. (See general
policy and procedure manual.) (1995 Code § 2.103; amd. 2012 Code)
3-1-4: INDEBTEDNESS:
No indebtedness shall be incurred, except such indebtedness as may be payable
solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a designated
specified source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which such
indebtedness could be paid, as provided by statute. The village shall not
become indebted in any manner or for any purpose to an amount in the aggregate
exceeding those limitations prescribed by statute. (1995 Code § 2.104)
3-1-5: REVENUES:
   A.   Sources Of Revenue: The village may receive monies from taxes, payments
for services and sales, fees, fines, state and federal grants or shared
revenues, and other sources as the village board may from time to time
prescribe, as permitted by law. (1995 Code § 2.301; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Tax Levy Ordinance:
      1.   A tax levy ordinance will be prepared and adopted annually to levy
such taxes as authorized and needed to meet anticipated expenses and meet any
outstanding bond issues.
      2.   If the total tax levies exceed five percent (5%) of previous levy, a
public hearing will be held by the board after proper notice and in accord with
state statutes.
      3.   A certified copy of the tax levy ordinance shall be filed by the
village clerk with the county clerk not later than the second Tuesday in
December. Such ordinance shall show the total appropriated by fund and the
amount of the taxes levied therefor. (1995 Code § 2.302)
   C.   Monies To Treasurer: Every officer and employee of the village shall,
on or before the twenty fifth day of each month, turn over all monies received
by him in his official capacity to the village treasurer with a statement
showing the source from which the same was received. (1995 Code § 2.303)
   D.   Insufficient Funds Fee: If any person attempts to pay any money owed
the village by a personal check, and the bank, upon presentment of the check
for payment does not honor that check, whether due to insufficient funds or for
any other reason, that person shall owe the village, in addition to all other
sums due, the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00). Said amount shall be due each
time the village presents the check and the bank fails to honor the check. All
payments received by the village shall first be applied to returned check fees,
then to late fees, then to past due balances and then to current balances.
(Ord. 507, 8-21-2006, eff. 9-1-2006)
3-1-6: EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Annual Appropriation Ordinance: During the first quarter of each fiscal
year, an appropriation ordinance shall be enacted to appropriate such sums of
money as are deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities
of the village. The ordinance shall specify the objects and purposes for which
these appropriations are made and the amount appropriated for each object or
purpose. (1995 Code § 2.402)
   B.   Supplemental Appropriations: Supplemental appropriation ordinances may
be enacted as provided by statute after the appropriation ordinance is passed
whenever additional appropriations are necessitated by casualty, accident
happening, or emergency, whenever money is made available from a new source of
revenue, and at any time after the first half of each fiscal year to make
transfers within any department or separate agency. (1995 Code § 2.403)
   C.   Claims: No bills, claims or expenditures of any kind or nature shall be
paid and no order drawn on the village treasurer therefor, unless such bill or
claims shall have been passed on and allowed by the board, specifying upon
which fund the order shall be drawn. All bills, claims, expenditures, orders,
and transfers from one fund to another, with the exception of trust and agency
funds, shall be done only with warrants properly signed by the village
president and countersigned by the village clerk stating the particular fund to
which the same are chargeable. (Ord. 503, 6-20-2006, eff. 6-20-2006; amd. 2012
Code)
   D.   Trust And Agency Funds: The village clerk is authorized to sign
warrants for expending monies from the payroll fund. The treasurer is
authorized to sign warrants for expending monies from the water meter deposit
fund and from the water collection fund. (1995 Code § 2.405)
   E.   Contracts: The president, or any other person designated by the village
board, may sign, on behalf of the village, any contract authorized by the
corporate authorities. No contract may be entered into without the authority
vote of the board. (1995 Code § 2.406)
   F.   Purchasing Policies And Procedures:
      1.   Village Purchasing: Purchasing on behalf of the village shall be
done in accordance with policies and procedures outlined in the "Village Policy
And Procedure Manual" and the provisions of this subsection. (1995 Code §
2.601)
      2.   Code Of Conduct:
         a.   No officials, either elected or appointed, nor any employee of
the village, shall use his status to make any purchase of goods or services for
nonvillage purposes under the guise of making said purchase for village
purposes and thereby obtaining a discount or preference and also causing
avoidance of any retailers' taxes for which the village would otherwise be
exempted as an Illinois municipal corporation. The village shall not pay for
any of said purchases noted in this subsection F2a even though reimbursement is
offered by said officials or employees. (1995 Code §§ 2.602, 2.603)
         b.   No officials, either elected or appointed, nor any employee of
the village shall receive, personally, any discount or inducement from any
village supplier or vendor offered as an incentive for village patronage. Any
inducement or "free" merchandise so received shall become the property of the
village. (1995 Code § 2.604)
         c.   The village board, at its discretion, may allow officials or
employees to retain such items as hats, calendars, pens, etc.; except, in no
event shall said items have a retail value of more than ten dollars ($10.00).
(1995 Code § 2.605)
      3.   Penalty: Any officer or employee who violates any provisions of this
subsection shall forfeit his/her office, be dismissed from village employment,
or be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or both of said penalties. (1995 Code § 2.606;
amd. 2012 Code)
3-1-7: ANNUAL AUDIT:
As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and no later than six
(6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the village
made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
the state of Illinois, to be designated by the village board. Copies of such
audit report shall be filed with the village clerk and with the director of the
state department of revenue and in such other places as may be required by law.
(1995 Code § 2.501)
CHAPTER 2
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Short Title
3-2-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Notice Requirements
3-2-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
3-2-6: Application Of Tax Payments
3-2-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-2-8: Audit Procedure
3-2-9: Appeals
3-2-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
3-2-11: Installment Contracts
3-2-12: Statute Of Limitations
3-2-13: Voluntary Disclosure
3-2-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
3-2-15: Review Of Liens
3-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 460,
12-18-2000)
3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code or fees collected by the village other than
infrastructure maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Cerro Gordo, Illinois. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing and mailed fourteen (14) days prior to the day fixed for
any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local tax
administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be two (2) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund
of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person
who has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be nine
percent (9%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 460, 12-
18-2000)
3-2-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local tax administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or the end of
the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
3-2-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000;
amd. 2012 Code)
3-2-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 460, 12-18-2000)
3-2-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
460, 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 3
VILLAGE TAXES
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL ELECTRICITY TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: Tax Imposed; Rates
3-3A-3: Tax Is Additional
3-3A-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-3A-5: Collection Of Tax
3-3A-6: Tax Remittance And Return
3-3A-7: Credits For Erroneous Payments
3-3A-8: Statute Of Limitations
3-3A-9: Account Maintenance
3-3A-10: Violation; Penalties
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
EXEMPT PURCHASER: A purchaser who has applied for and received a resale number
for the resale of electricity from the village.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation, facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a "public utility", as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-2, directly in the generation, production, transmission, delivery or
sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, other than an exempt
purchaser.
TAX COLLECTOR AND TAXPAYER: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
(Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
3-3A-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATES:
Effective January 1, 2011, or as soon thereafter as regulations of the Illinois
commerce commission or other jurisdictional regulatory body shall allow,
pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 and any and all other
applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
Amount Of Electricity       Price Per
Used Or Consumed In A Month Kilowatt Hour
                            (Cents)
Amount Of Electricity                              Price Per
Used Or Consumed In A Month                        Kilowatt Hour
                                                   (Cents)
For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours                 $00.610
For the next  48,000 kilowatt hours                00.400
For the next  50,000 kilowatt hours                00.360
For the next  400,000 kilowatt hours               00.350
For the next  500,000 kilowatt hours               00.340
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours             00.320
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours             00.315
For the next  5,000,000 kilowatt hours             00.310
For the next  10,000,000 kilowatt hours            00.305
Electricity in excess of 20,000,000 kilowatt hours 00.300
 
(Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3A-3: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
   A.   The tax imposed by this article is in addition to all taxes, fees and
other revenue measures imposed by the village, the state of Illinois, or any
other political subdivision of the state.
   B.   The tax authorized by this article shall be in addition to the payment
of money or value of products or services furnished to the village by the
taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public
places or installations and maintenance therein, thereon, or thereunder of
poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's
business. (Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3A-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the tax shall not be
imposed if and to the extent that the imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
or statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010; amd. 2012
Code)
3-3A-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this article and any such
tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed
to the village by such person delivering the electricity; provided, that the
person delivering electricity shall be allowed a credit for such tax related to
deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible; and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such
gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the
person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the village upon request.
   D.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
village in the manner prescribed by the village. (Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3A-6: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Tax Return Required:
      1.   On or before February 28, 2011, each tax collector shall make a
return to the village treasurer for the month of January 2011, stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each tax
collector shall make a like return to the village treasurer for a corresponding
one month period.
   B.   Payment Of Tax:
      1.   Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the village the amount of
the tax collected pursuant to this article. In the event a purchaser shall make
only a partial payment of any bill supplied thereto by the supplier, any such
partial payment not specifically identified by the purchaser to be applied to
the tax imposed by this article shall be deemed to be for the delivery of
electricity.
      2.   The tax collector making the return herein provided shall, at the
time of making such return, pay the village treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the tax collector may,
if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts. (Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3A-7: CREDITS FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this article from the taxpayer or tax collector who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
(3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord.
554-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3A-8: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3A-9: ACCOUNT MAINTENANCE:
The village clerk is hereby directed to send copies of this article to all
utility companies affected by this article and to provide to all utility
companies affected by this article the names and addresses of all owners of
properties subject to the tax within the corporate limits of the village, and
to keep the list so provided as current as practicable so that the collection
of the taxes is accomplished fairly and equitably toward all property owners
and taxpayers. (Ord. 554-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3A-10: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due,
together with all attorney fees and costs of collection thereof. (Ord. 554-
2010, 8-25-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL NATURAL GAS TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-3B-3: Tax Is Additional
3-3B-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-3B-5: Tax Remittance And Return
3-3B-6: Credits For Erroneous Payments
3-3B-7: Statute Of Limitations
3-3B-8: Account Maintenance
3-3B-9: Violation; Penalties
3-3B-10: Severability
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling natural gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as
the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued
in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit,
services and property of every kind and material for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever; provided, however,
that "gross receipts" shall not include: a) any amounts specifically excluded
from the definition of "gross receipts" in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-2(d); and b) that portion of the consideration received for distributing,
supplying, furnishing, or selling natural gas to school districts or units of
local government within the corporate limits of the village.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
TAX COLLECTOR AND TAXPAYER: The person delivering natural gas to the purchaser.
(Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
3-3B-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
Effective January 1, 2011, or as soon thereafter as regulations of the Illinois
commerce commission or other jurisdictional regulatory body shall allow, a tax
is imposed on all persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling natural gas for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3B-3: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or value of products or
services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use
of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereupon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used
in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No tax is imposed by this article with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling natural gas
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this article for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the "nonhome rule municipal retailers' occupation tax act" authorized by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.3. (Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010; amd. 2012
Code)
3-3B-5: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Tax Return Required:
      1.   On or before February 28, 2011, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the village treasurer for the month of January 2011, stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the village treasurer for a corresponding one month
period.
   B.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall,
at the time of making such return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of
tax herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer
may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts. (Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3B-6: CREDITS FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 553-2010,
8-25-2010)
3-3B-7: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3B-8: ACCOUNT MAINTENANCE:
The village clerk is hereby directed to send copies of this article to all
utility companies affected by this article and to provide to all utility
companies affected by this article the names and addresses of all owners of
properties within the corporate limits of the village (which shall also include
the name and address of each school district and unit of local government which
owns facilities within the corporate limits of the village), and to keep the
list so provided as current as practicable. (Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3B-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due,
together with all attorney fees and costs of collection thereof. (Ord. 553-
2010, 8-25-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
3-3B-10: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any provision of this article, or the application of any provision
of this article, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence
shall not affect other provisions of this article, or their application, that
can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this article.
   B.   Furthermore, if the exclusion of the consideration received for
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling natural gas to school districts
or units of local government from the definition of "gross receipts" in section
3-3B-1 of this article, or the application thereof, is held unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid, the amount of tax due as a consequence of such holding shall
be limited to the amount that the taxpayer is authorized to charge and collect
from such school districts and units of local government pursuant to the
provisions of section 9-221 of the public utilities act or any successor
thereto. (Ord. 553-2010, 8-25-2010)
ARTICLE C. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-3C-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-3C-4: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-3C-5: Returns To Department
3-3C-6: Resales
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The state department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money, whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel termination
point within this village and charges for the portion of the interoffice
channels provided within this village. Charges for that portion of the
interoffice channel connecting two (2) or more channel termination points, one
or more of which is located within the jurisdictional boundary of this village,
shall be determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount equal to the total
charge for the interoffice channel by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of channel termination points that are located within the jurisdictional
boundary of this village and the denominator of which is the total number of
channel termination points connected by the interoffice channel. However,
"gross charge" shall not include any of the following:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this article; 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act; 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code; 4) 911 surcharges; or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to the rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of this
village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and economic
opportunity;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this article has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices;
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the simplified
municipal telecommunications tax act; or
   J.   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: 1) those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable; 2) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and 3) the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services of telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The locations of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
taxpayer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by
telephone number, authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are
sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in this village and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this article.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed thereto, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages, or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this article, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this article. For purposes of this article,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupation tax act. (Ord. 552-2010, 8-25-2010; amd. 2012
Code)
3-3C-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
Effective January 1, 2011, a tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the
following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event,
shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by
this subsection to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in
such other state or such tax properly due and paid in another municipality that
was not previously allowed as a credit against any other municipal tax.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in this
state or in such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted
pursuant to or authorized by this subsection to the extent of the amount of
such tax properly due and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and
paid in another municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as
a credit against any other state or local tax in this state. (Ord. 552-2010, 8-
25-2010)
3-3C-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
The tax imposed by this article is not imposed on such act or privilege to the
extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the village. (Ord. 552-
2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3C-4: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this article shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 552-2010, 8-25-2010)
3-3C-5: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before February 28, 2011, and on or before the last day of every month
thereafter, the tax imposed under this article on telecommunications retailers
shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act (public act 62-526, section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and
regulations created by the department to implement the act. (Ord. 552-2010, 8-
25-2010)
3-3C-6: RESALES:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentations,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer apply because of the
person having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in subsections A and B of this section, the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall
not be made tax free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person
has an active resale number from the department and furnishes that number to
the retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to
such person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 552-2010,
8-25-2010)
ARTICLE D. MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-3D-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-3D-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the village at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
that business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-23, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-23). (Ord. 653-
2019, 12-19-2019)
3-3D-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this article shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 653-2019, 12-19-2019)
ARTICLE E. MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX; MUNICIPAL GROCERY
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-3E-1: Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed
3-3E-2: Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
3-3E-3: Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer Both Taxes
3-3E-1: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
Ordinance is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24). (Ord. 687-2024, 10-21-2024)
3-3E-2: MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in Section
3-3E-1, above. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-24). (Ord. 687-2024, 10-21-2024)
3-3E-3: ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES:
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 687-2024,
10-21-2024)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS, LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
CHAPTER 1
LICENSES AND PERMITS REQUIRED GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-1-1: Licenses Required
4-1-2: Permits And Certificates Required
4-1-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Garbage Collectors: No garbage collectors may operate within the
village without being licensed in accordance with section
4-4-1 of this title.
   B.   Mobile Home Parks: No person, firm or corporation shall operate a
mobile home park without first obtaining a license in accordance with section
10-6-4 of this code.
   C.   Retail Liquor Dealers: No person, firm or corporation shall sell, keep
or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any place for the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor within the limits and territory of the village without being
issued a local license in accordance with chapter 2 of this title. (1995 Code
§§ 3.103 and 3.108; amd. Ord. 490, 3-21-2005; 2012 Code; Ord. 678-2022, 12-19-
2022)
4-1-2: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
   A.   Construction Of Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways: No person, firm or
corporation shall lay any pavement on any public street, sidewalk, alley or
other public way without first obtaining a permit in accordance with section
8-2-2 of this code. (2012 Code)
   B.   Excavations: No excavations or tunneling in any street, alley or other
public place may be done without first obtaining a permit in accordance with
title 8, chapter 3 of this code. (1995 Code § 3.104)
   C.   Planting Vegetation On Public Property: No person, firm or corporation
shall plant any vegetation on public property without first obtaining a permit
in accordance with section
8-2-12 of this code. (2012 Code)
   D.   Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy: No building or
structure, including, but not limited to, decks and porches, shall be
constructed or altered without first obtaining a building permit and a
certificate of occupancy in accordance with the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 486, 8-
16-2004)
   E.   Construction Within Fire Limits: No person, firm or corporation shall
construct any building or structure within the fire limits of the village
without first obtaining a permit in accordance with section
10-3-2 of this code.
   F.   Building Moving: No person, firm or corporation shall move any building
through or across the public ways of the village without first obtaining a
permit in accordance with section
8-2-11 of this code. (2012 Code)
   G.   Overhanging Signs And Awnings: No person, firm or corporation shall
erect or maintain any sign, signboard or rigid canopy without first obtaining a
permit in accordance with section
8-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 3.106)
   H.   Drains: No person, firm or corporation shall construct, or permit to be
constructed, any drain leading into any drain of the village without first
obtaining a permit in accordance with title 8, chapter 5 of this code. (1995
Code § 3.107)
   I.   Water Connections: No person, firm or corporation shall connect to the
village water system without first obtaining a permit in accordance with
section
9-1-3 of this code.
   J.   Water Service: No person, firm or corporation shall receive water from
the village water system without first obtaining a permit in accordance with
section
9-1-5 of this code.
   K.   Well Drilling: No person, firm or corporation shall drill any wells
within a ten (10) mile radius of the Village without first obtaining a permit
in accordance with section
9-1B-1 of this Code.
   L.   Private Sewage Disposal Systems: No person, firm or corporation shall
construct a private sewage disposal system in the Village without first
obtaining a permit in accordance with section
9-2-2 of this Code.
   M.   Building Sewers And Connections: No unauthorized person, firm or
corporation shall uncover, make any repairs or openings into, use, alter, or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a
permit in accordance with section
9-2-3 of this Code. (2012 Code)
   N.   Solicitors: No solicitors may do business in the Village without a
certificate of registration first being issued in accordance with chapter 3 of
this title. (1995 Code § 3.102; amd. 2012 Code)
   O.   Golf Carts And UTVs: No person, firm or corporation shall operate any
golf cart or UTV on the public ways of the Village without first obtaining a
permit in accordance with section
7-3-3 of this Code. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 621-2017, 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Local Liquor Control Commission
4-2-4: License Required
4-2-5: Ineligibility For License
4-2-6: Application For License
4-2-7: Examination Of Applicant
4-2-8: Grant And Issuance Of License; Contents
4-2-9: Insurance Requirements
4-2-10: Classification Of Licenses; Fees And Number
4-2-11: Payment Of Fee; Limitation On Effect Of Payment
4-2-12: Term Of License
4-2-13: Display Of License
4-2-14: Change In Managers
4-2-15: Nontransferability Of License
4-2-16: License Renewals
4-2-17: Location Regulations
4-2-18: Sanitary Premises
4-2-19: Days And Hours Of Sales
4-2-20: Sales To, Providing To Certain Persons Prohibited
4-2-21: Persons Under Twenty One
4-2-22: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-2-23: Inspections
4-2-24: Books And Records
4-2-25: Enforcement, Violations And Penalties
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 442,
6-2-1999)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS 1 :
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as
follows:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%) or less of alcohol by volume.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the local liquor control
commissioner, at the time of its application for a license under this chapter,
two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member, his or her
name and address; and provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer,
agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in
the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER: The mayor or president of the board of
trustees of the village.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead, or
other receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked, or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE: Any public place where packaged liquors are offered for
sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or partly enclosed and partly
unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels or merchandise are offered
for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club room or
meeting place. The terms "public place" and "public premises" shall be
interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
RESTAURANT: Any public place which derives fifty percent (50%) or more of its
gross revenue from the sale of nonalcoholic foods and beverages and which is
kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where
meals are served, and where meals are actually and regularly served, without
sleeping accommodations, such space being provided with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and having employed therein a
sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable
food for its guests.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
SPECIAL EVENT RETAILER: Any educational, fraternal, political, civic, religious
or nonprofit organization which sells or offers for sale beer or wine, or both,
only for consumption at the location and on the dates designated by a special
event retail license.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits" as defined in this
section. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.01 et seq.
4-2-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION 1 :
   A.   Created; Membership: There is hereby created a Local Liquor Control
Commission consisting of the President of the Village Board of Trustees and the
six (6) members of the Village Board of Trustees. In addition, the Local Liquor
Control Commission shall consist of any person or persons appointed by the
President to assist him in the exercise of the powers and the performance of
the duties herein provided.
   B.   Local Liquor Control Commissioner: The President of the Village Board
of Trustees shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be charged
with administration of the appropriate provisions of the State Liquor Control
Act of 1934 and this chapter. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
   C.   Compensation: In addition to any other fees, salaries, or compensation
paid to the President and the members of the Board of Trustees under any other
ordinance or statute, the President of the Board of Trustees shall be paid
three hundred dollars ($300.00) per fiscal year to act as Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, and each member of the Local Liquor Control Commission, exclusive
of the President, shall be compensated at a rate of thirty dollars ($30.00) per
meeting for each meeting convened by the Local Liquor Control Commission or
Commissioner and attended by said member of the Local Liquor Control Commission
that occurs at a time and place other than a regularly scheduled meeting of the
Board of Trustees as set forth in section
1-5-3 of this Code.
   D.   Clerk Of Commission: The Village Clerk shall be the Clerk of the Local
Liquor Control Commission, and the Clerk shall keep a record of all
proceedings, transactions, communications and official acts of the Local Liquor
Control Commission, and shall be custodian of all records and perform such
other duties as the commission may proscribe. The Village Clerk, in addition to
any other fees, salary or compensation paid under any other ordinance or
statute, shall be paid thirty dollars ($30.00) for each meeting convened by the
Local Liquor Control Commission or Commissioner at which the Village Clerk
attends in his/her capacity as the Clerk of the Local Liquor Control Commission
that occurs at a time and place other than a regularly scheduled meeting of the
Board of Trustees as set forth in section
1-5-3 of this Code. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-2.
4-2-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any place
for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and territory of
the Village without having a local license to do so, issued by the President of
the Village Board of Trustees (hereinafter referred to as "President") in the
manner hereinafter provided, and a valid license for such purpose issued by the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 442, 6-2-
1999)
4-2-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE 1 :
No retail license shall be issued to the following:
   A.   In the case of an individual, a person who is not a resident of the
Village of Cerro Gordo or a person who resides within the school district
boundaries of Cerro Gordo Community Unit School District #100, and has not been
a resident continuously in the Village of Cerro Gordo or within the school
district boundaries of Cerro Gordo Community Unit School District #100 for at
least six (6) months immediately preceding the date of application for a
license under this chapter. (Ord. 635-2018, 4-16-2018)
   B.   A person who is not at least twenty one (21) years of age.
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law, unless the commission determines, after investigation, that such person
has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering the matters set forth in such person's application and the
commission's investigation.
   D.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
juvenile prostitution, or promoting prostitution that involves keeping a place
of prostitution or juvenile prostitution.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.
   G.   A person whose local or state license has previously been revoked for
cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for a renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residency within the village.
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any officer, manager or
director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate
more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship
and residence within the village.
   K.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified
under the business corporation act of 1983 2 , or the limited liability company
act 3 , to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee, with the exception that the manager or agent may reside within a
thirty (30) miles radius of the Village Hall of the Village of Cerro Gordo.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the effective date hereof or has forfeited his bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any president of the village board of trustees, any member
of the village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board;
and no such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; except, that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises not located within the territory subject to
the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is approved
by the state liquor control commission and the village local liquor control
commission.
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the criminal code of 1961 4 , or as proscribed by
a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   R.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act 5 .
   S.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21(a).
   T.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States. (Ord. 442, 6-2-
1999; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 662-2020, 10-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-2.
2 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
3 2. 805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.
4 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1, 5/28-1.1, 5/28-3.
5 2. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
4-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 1 :
   A.   Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant must submit to the
president an application, in writing and under oath, stating the following:
      1.   In the case of an individual, the applicant's name, date of birth,
and mailing address.
      2.   The name and address of the applicant's business.
      3.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of the
business with the county clerk.
      4.   In the case of a copartnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership, the names, dates of birth, and addresses of all partners, and the
persons entitled to a share in the profits of the copartnership. (Ord. 442, 6-
2-1999)
      5.   In the case of a corporation for profit, limited liability company,
or a club, the date of incorporation or organization, the object for which it
was organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and the
name of the person who will be managing the establishment for which the license
is sought, and if a majority in interest of the stock of such corporation is
owned by one person or his nominee, the address and name of such person. (Ord.
442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
      6.   The citizenship of the applicant, his/her place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his/her naturalization. (Ord. 442,
6-2-1999)
      7.   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation or limited liability company, the objects for which it was formed.
(Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
      8.   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character.
      9.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      10.   Whether the applicant has made similar application for a similar
other license on premises other than described in the application and the
disposition of such application.
      11.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises is leased, and
if the premises is leased, the applicant shall attach a copy of the lease
agreement to the application.
      12.   The date of the applicant's first request for a state liquor
license and whether it was granted, denied, or withdrawn.
      13.   Whether the applicant has made an application for a liquor license
which has been denied and, if so, the reasons therefor.
      14.   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor licenses
suspended or revoked and, if so, the reasons therefor.
      15.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a gambling offense
or felony and, if so, the particulars thereof. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
      16.   In the case of a partnership, sole proprietorship, corporation, or
limited liability company, the applicant's name, sex, date of birth, social
security number, position and percentage of ownership in the business; and the
name, sex, date of birth, social security number, position and percentage of
ownership in the business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer,
director, manager and any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the
shares of the applicant business entity or parent corporations of the applicant
business entity. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
      17.   That the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the state of
Illinois or the United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter and
amendments hereto in the conduct of his place of business.
      18.   In addition to any other requirement of this subsection, an
applicant for a license, including an applicant for a special event retailer's
license, shall also submit proof of adequate dramshop insurance as specified in
section
4-2-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
   B.   In the case of a partnership, corporation, or limited liability
company, the information and statements required by subsection A of this
section shall be furnished as to each partner, and with respect to a
corporation or limited liability company, the information and statements
required by subsection A of this section shall be furnished as to the president
of the corporation and the directors of the corporation, and with respect to
the person who is to manage the establishment for which a license is sought.
   C.   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club, corporation, or limited liability company, then the same
shall be signed and sworn to by at least one member of such partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, or by the president and secretary of such
partnership, firm, association, club, corporation, or limited liability
company. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   The original application shall be retained by the village. (Ord. 442,
6-2-1999; amd. Ord. 662-2020, 10-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 3. 235 ILCS 5/7-1.
4-2-7: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT 1 :
The president shall have the right to examine or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any
licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served in the
manner provided in this chapter, and to examine or cause to be examined the
books and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take
proof for his information in the performance of his duties; and for such
purpose, to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the president
under this section, he may authorize his agent or agents to act on his behalf.
(Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-5.
4-2-8: GRANT AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
The president, with the approval of a majority of the village board of
trustees, is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals, firms,
corporations, and limited liability companies to sell at retail and to keep and
offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of
the village upon the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and
by the act of the general assembly of Illinois, and not otherwise. Such license
shall be in writing, signed by the president of the board of trustees, and
attested by the village clerk, with the seal of his/her office affixed thereto.
Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the address and
description of the premises for which they are granted and the dates of their
issuance and expiration. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
4-2-9: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 1 :
Each application for a license and application for the renewal of a license
shall be accompanied by evidence of dramshop liability insurance in the form of
a certificate of insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to do
business in the state of Illinois. The certificate shall insure the applicant
and the owner or lessor of the premises in at least the minimum required by
Illinois state law. Such coverage shall be kept current at all times. Upon
request of the local commissioner, a licensee shall provide evidence of
coverage at times other than the initial application and application for a
renewal of a license. (Ord. 508, 8-21-2006, eff. 9-1-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-21.
4-2-10: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES AND NUMBER:
Every person or entity engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the
village shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses shall be divided into
the following classes:
   A.   Class A: A class A license shall permit the licensee to sell any and
all alcoholic liquor at retail by the drink, and not in a package, for
consumption only on the premises where it is sold unless specific permission is
granted by the village board of trustees for consumption in places other than
the premises where it was sold. A class A licensee may not sell any alcoholic
liquor in a package or for consumption off the premises of the licensee unless
specific permission is granted by the village board of trustees for consumption
in places other than the premises where it is sold. Class A licenses may be
issued only to the operator of a "restaurant", as defined in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, and for which restaurant the sale of nonalcoholic items
represent twenty percent (20%) or more of the total sales of said restaurant.
The annual license fee shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). Not more than
two (2) such licenses may be issued. Each holder of a class A license shall
provide to the president copies of the licensee's sales tax returns at the same
time that said returns are provided to the Illinois department of revenue.
Failure to provide such returns in a timely manner may be grounds for the
revocation of the license.
   B.   Class B: A class B license shall permit the licensee to sell at retail
any and all alcoholic liquor in the original package and not for consumption on
the premises where it is sold. The annual license fee shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Not more than two (2) such licenses may be issued.
   C.   Class C: A class C license shall be issued only to organizations
meeting the definition of "club", as provided in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, and shall permit the licensee to sell at retail any and
all alcoholic liquor by the drink and not in a package for consumption only on
the premises where it is sold, unless specific permission is granted by the
village board of trustees for consumption in places other than the premises
where it is sold. The annual license fee shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00). Not more than one such license shall be issued.
   D.   Class SER: A class SER (special event retailer) license shall permit
the licensee to purchase alcoholic liquors from an Illinois licensed
distributor (unless the licensee purchases less than $500.00 of alcoholic
liquor for the special event, in which case, the licensee may purchase the
alcoholic liquor from a licensed retailer) and shall allow the licensee to sell
and offer for sale at retail beer and wine only for use or consumption, but not
for resale in any form, and only at the location on the specific date
designated for the special event in the license. An applicant for a special
event retailer license must also comply with the requirements of the Illinois
liquor control commission including the requirement that the applicant for a
special event retailer license submit with the state application proof
satisfactory to the state commission that the applicant will provide dramshop
liability insurance in the maximum limits. The fee for a class SER license
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). A special event retailer license shall be
issued for a specific time period, not to exceed six (6) days per licensee per
event. The hours of operation and time of consumption for a class SER license
shall be listed specifically in the license and shall take precedence over any
conflicting provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. Ord. 545, 5-
4-2010, eff. 5-5-2010; Ord. 608-2015, 8-17-2015, eff. 8-18-2015; Ord. 662-2020,
10-1-2020; Ord. 681-2023, 10- -2023)
4-2-11: PAYMENT OF FEE; LIMITATION ON EFFECT OF PAYMENT 1 :
   A.   The license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a
license at the time the application for a license is submitted to the president
as hereinbefore provided. In the event the license is denied, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant. The fee shall be deposited in the municipal
general fund. The application for the license shall be filed with the village
clerk. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
   B.   1. No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of fees by
any person, partnership, corporation, or limited liability company for a period
longer than ninety (90) days without a restaurant, tavern or liquor business
for the same being in complete and full operation. However, if a restaurant or
liquor business has been destroyed or damaged by a fire or act of God, or is
under new construction and cannot be rebuilt or repaired or finished within the
ninety (90) day period, then, in that event, the president may, in his
discretion, extend the period of time for which the liquor license may be held
by the mere payment of fees without the restaurant, tavern, or liquor business
being in full and complete operation. Such extension of time, if granted by the
president, shall not exceed an additional ninety (90) days. (Ord. 442, 6-2-
1999; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   If either of the stated periods of time set out in subsection B1 of
this section passes without the particular restaurant, tavern, or liquor
business beginning or returning to complete and full operation, the license for
that particular business shall expire and not be subject to renewal, unless all
other requirements of this chapter shall have been met. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
4-2-12: TERM OF LICENSE:
Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for a twelve
(12) month period commencing upon the payment of the license fee and approval
by the local liquor control commission as herein set forth unless sooner
revoked or suspended. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
4-2-13: DISPLAY OF LICENSE 1 :
Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his license to be framed and hung
in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 442, 6-2-
1999)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-24.
4-2-14: CHANGE IN MANAGERS 1 :
With respect to any licensee operating an establishment for which a liquor
license has been issued, in the event the manager of said establishment is
different from the licensee/applicant who applied for the license, then should
the manager of said establishment change after the issuance of said liquor
license, the licensee must submit the new manager's name to the president
within thirty (30) days. Continuation of the license will be contingent upon a
background check of the new manager, and all fees shall be waived should the
license be changed only as a result of a change of managers. If, for some
reason, the manager is not acceptable, the licensee shall have thirty (30) days
from the disapproval of the replacement manager to submit a new name before
revocation. Failure to provide new information or to obtain a new manager
acceptable to the president within ninety (90) days after the initial change of
manager shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of said license. (Ord.
442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
4-2-15: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE 1 :
A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege, good
for not to exceed one year after issued unless sooner revoked as in this
chapter authorized and provided, and shall not constitute property nor shall it
be subject to attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable
or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered
or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee;
provided, that executors or administrators of any estate of the deceased
licensee and the trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under the order of the court having
jurisdiction of such estate and may exercise the privileges of such deceased,
insolvent, or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
(Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-1.
4-2-16: LICENSE RENEWALS 1 :
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided he is
then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought is suitable for such purpose; and provided further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the village president and board of trustees
from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 3. 235 ILCS 5/6-1.
4-2-17: LOCATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Locations:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at
retail within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for
the aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their spouses or children or any
military or naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to
hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs or to
restaurants, food shops, or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is
not the principal business carried on, nor shall this prohibition apply to the
renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on the premises
within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where such church or
school has been established within such one hundred feet (100') since the
issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the distance of one
hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used
for worship services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
Nothing in this subsection A1 shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors 1 .
      2.   No premises within the village shall be licensed by the president to
sell alcoholic liquor in violation the village zoning ordinance.
   B.   Change In Location 2 : A retail liquor dealer's license issued under
this chapter shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises
described in the application and license. Such location may be changed only
upon the written permit to make such change issued by the president and
approved by the board of trustees. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor under the laws of this state and this code or the ordinances
of the village. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-11.
2 2. 235 ILCS 5/7-14.
4-2-18: SANITARY PREMISES 1 :
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage of
such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the condition of the
premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption. (Ord. 442,
6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.
4-2-19: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES 1 :
   A.   Generally: Alcoholic liquor may be sold or offered for sale at retail
any time in or upon the licensed premises between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M., Monday through Saturday, to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following
day. Alcoholic liquor may be sold or offered for sale at retail between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on
Sunday. On New Year's Eve, the hours for sale for all licensees shall be
extended to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on New Year's Day. All hours referred to
herein shall be local time. (Ord. 623-2017, 5-15-2017)
   B.   Sundays: All licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail, by the
drink or in the original package, for consumption either on or off the premises
licensed, on Sundays, subject to all the remaining terms and conditions as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Presence On Premises:
      1.   Except for Class A license holders, only employees or agents of the
licensee or the licensee shall be allowed on the premises after closing hour
and before the next opening hour. The licensee shall have immediately available
for display to officials authorized to enforce this section proof of agent
status or proof of employment of anyone claimed to be an agent or employee.
"Proof of employment" is defined and required to be a true and correct copy of
any current form or report made by the licensee to any State or Federal
government agency listing employees by name. In addition, the claimed employee
shall have current identification to identify him as the same person listed on
such report or form.
      2.   All patrons will be out of or off of the premises within thirty (30)
minutes after the time set in this section for closing, and the doors of the
premises shall be locked at this time, except those businesses that sell liquor
incidental to other legitimate business, i.e., grocery stores, gas stations,
restaurants, etc. However, in every case, no liquor can be consumed on the
premises or made available or obtained in any manner after closing hours. (Ord.
505, 7-17-2006, eff. 8-1-2006)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
4-2-20: SALES TO, PROVIDING TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated
person, except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (Ord.
442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony
or service. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-16.
4-2-21: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Employment Prohibited 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to attend any bar or to sell, draw, pour or mix
any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises.
   B.   Identification And Proof Of Age 2 :
      1.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believe or have reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the age of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or
delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties. Proof that the licensee or his employee or agent demanded, was
shown, and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction
forbidden by this subsection B1 is competent evidence and may be considered in
any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the suspension or
revocation of any license based thereon.
      2.   The licensee holding a special event retailer's license and his
agents and employees shall provide wristbands or some other means of proof of
sufficient age which is highly visible to be worn by any person purchasing or
consuming alcoholic liquor at any event held by said licensee pursuant to the
authority of the special event retailer's license.
      3.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter. The consumption of alcoholic
liquor by any person under the age of twenty one (21) years is forbidden.
   C.   Warning Posted: In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed
card which shall read as follows:
      UNDERAGE LIQUOR WARNING
      YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750.00 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS
MUNICIPALITY IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
(Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
2 3. 235 ILCS 5/6-20.
4-2-22: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Drinking In Public Or On Private Property 1 ; Transporting Open
Containers:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the
following acts within the village:
         a.   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way without special permission granted by the
president and approved by the board of trustees.
         b.   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the president and approval of the board of trustees.
         c.   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without
permission of an owner thereof. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
         d.   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place, including parks and recreation areas, in an intoxicated condition
such that said person is a danger to himself or others. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999;
amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   It shall be illegal to consume any alcoholic beverages on any
property that the village owns, leases or rents, or to transport an open
container of alcoholic beverage upon the streets, alleys and sidewalk of the
village unless specific permission is granted by the village board of trustees.
(Ord. 545, 5-4-2010, eff. 5-5-2010)
   B.   Gambling: It is unlawful to keep, place, maintain, or operate any
gambling device or instrument in and upon the premises used or occupied as a
place where alcoholic liquor is sold or given away, except as otherwise
authorized by the video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.
(Ord. 581-2012, 10-18-2012)
   C.   Disorderly House 2 : Any person licensed under this chapter shall not
suffer or permit any disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful
games, or riotous or disorderly conduct in any house or premises kept or
occupied by him for the sale of liquor.
   D.   Refilling Original Package; Liquor In Municipal Buildings: In addition
to the restrictions on licensing, the holder of a license is subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   No licensee shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original
package of alcohol with the same or other liquor, and no liquor shall be sold
except in original packages 3 .
      2.   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to or under the control of the village except in connection with the
operation of an established food service facility or at a site specifically
provided for in the state liquor control act of 1934 and where dramshop
insurance coverage is provided 3 .
   E.   Nudity Prohibited.
      1.   No person, while on any premises licensed hereunder and in public
view, shall engage in the following conduct:
         a.   Expose any portion of his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks,
anus or anal cleft;
         b.   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or
anal cleft; or
         c.   Appear without a fully opaque covering of his or her genitals,
pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleft.
      2.   No female person, while on the premises and in public view, shall
engage in the following conduct:
         a.   Expose that area of the human breast below the top of the areola;
         b.   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola; or
         c.   Appear without a fully opaque covering of that area of the human
breast below the top of the areola. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. Ord. 662-2020,
10-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-16.
2 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
3 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-22.
3 3. 235 ILCS 5/6-15.
4-2-23: INSPECTIONS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which a
license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the chief of
police, any police officer, or the local liquor control commissioner for the
purpose of making an inspection of such premises or any part thereof. (Ord.
442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 4. 235 ILCS 5/4-4.
4-2-24: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   The president shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by
him and shall supply the village clerk, village treasurer and police department
a copy of the same. Upon issuance or revocation of a license, the president
shall give written notice to these same officers within forty eight (48) hours
1 . (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
   B.   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the president. Such books and records need not be maintained on the licensed
premises, but must be maintained in the state of Illinois, except as provided
in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-10. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
4-2-25: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Powers And Duties Of Local Liquor Control Commission 1 :
      1.   The local liquor control commission, as created by this chapter,
shall have the following powers, functions and duties with respect to licenses
granted under this chapter:
         a.   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties set out
for violations of specific provisions of this chapter, the local liquor control
commission may suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke any liquor
license issued under this chapter for a violation of any state law pertaining
to the sale of alcoholic liquors by any licensee, his agent, servant or
employee.
         b.   To suspend or revoke any local liquor license if the licensee
makes any false statement or misrepresentation in the application for a
license.
         c.   To enter or authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or by the
state commission have been or are being violated and, at such time, to examine
said premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
         d.   To notify the secretary of state where a club incorporated under
the general not for profit corporation act or a foreign corporation functioning
as a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued under that act
has violated this chapter by selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic
liquors without a retailer's license.
         e.   To receive complaints from any citizen within his jurisdiction
that any of the provisions of the state liquor control act of 1934 or any rules
or regulations of this chapter have been or are being violated and to act upon
such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided.
      2.   The local liquor control commission shall also have the power to
levy fines in accordance with subsection H2 of this section. (Ord. 442, 6-2-
1999)
      3.   The local liquor control commission also has the duty to notify the
secretary of state of any convictions or dispositions of court supervision for
a violation of subsection 4-2-21B of this chapter. (2012 Code)
   B.   Complaint By Residents 2 :
      1.   Any five (5) residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the local liquor control commission stating that any retailer
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the local commission has been or is
violating the provisions of this chapter or of any of the statutes of this
state enacted with reference to the control of liquor. Such complaint shall be
made in writing and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
      2.   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
such belief is based. If the local liquor control commission is satisfied that
the complaint substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts
alleged there is reasonable cause for such belief, the commission shall set the
matter for hearing, and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and
place of such hearing and of the particular charges in the complaint.
   C.   Permitting Violations 3 : If the owner of the licensed premises or any
person from whom the licensee derives the right to possession of such premises,
or the agent of such owner or person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to
use said licensed premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said
owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
chapter to the same extent as said licensee and be subject to the same
punishment.
   D.   Liability For Acts Of Agent Or Employee 4 : Every act or omission of
whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such employer or licensee,
and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if said
act or omission had been done or omitted by him personally.
   E.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   Revocation After Conviction 5 : Whenever any licensee shall be
convicted of any violation of this chapter, the license of said licensee may,
in the discretion of the president and with the approval of the board of
trustees, be revoked and forfeited, and all fees paid thereon shall be
forfeited, and it shall thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further
violation of this chapter for said licensee to continue to operate under such a
license.
      2.   Revocation When Employee Convicted 6 : Whenever any officer,
director, manager, or other employee in a position of authority of any licensee
under this chapter shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter while
engaged in the course of his employment or while upon the premises described by
the license, the license shall be revoked and the fees paid thereon forfeited,
both as to the holder of the license and as to the premises, as if said
licensee had himself been convicted. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
   F.   Term Of Revocation 7 : When any license has been revoked for any cause,
no license shall be granted to the same licensee for a period of one year
thereafter for the conduct of the business of selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in the revoked license unless the revocation order has been
vacated or unless the revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a retail license
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if: 1) the
primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food where the sale
of liquor is incidental to the sale of food, and the applicant is a completely
new owner of the restaurant; 2) the immediately prior owner or operator of the
premises where the restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant
and held a valid retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the
restaurant for at least part of the twenty four (24) months before the change
of ownership; and 3) the restaurant is located seventy five feet (75') or more
from a school. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
   G.   Abatement Of Place Used In Violation 8 : Every lot, parcel or tract of
land, and every building, structure, tent, railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle,
establishment or place whatsoever, together with all furniture, fixtures,
ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein there shall be conducted any
unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon or wherein there shall be
kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic liquor intended for illegal
sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other manner used in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
and shall be abated as provided by the laws of this state for the abatement of
public nuisances.
   H.   Revocation Or Suspension Procedure 9 :
      1.   Authority: The local liquor control commission may revoke or suspend
any license issued thereby if it determines that the licensee has violated any
of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act of 1934, or of any valid
ordinance enacted by the board of trustees, or any applicable rule or
regulation established by the local liquor control commission or the state
commission which is not inconsistent with law. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
      2.   Fine In Addition To Suspension: In addition to suspension, the local
liquor control commission may levy a fine on the licensee for such violations.
The fine imposed shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. No more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in fines
under this subsection may be imposed against any licensee during the period of
his license. Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into the general corporate
fund of the municipal treasury, as the case may be. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999; amd.
2012 Code)
      3.   Notice Of Revocation, Suspension And Fine; Hearing: No such license
shall be so revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be fined except after a
public hearing by the local liquor control commission with a three (3) day
written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear
and defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public, and the local liquor
control commission shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an
official record of the proceedings. If the local liquor control commission has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, it may, upon
the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and
without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed for not more than
seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that
period; except, that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of
another business or businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not
be applicable to such other business or businesses.
      4.   Decision And Findings: The local liquor control commission shall,
within five (5) days after any hearing under this subsection, if it determines
after such hearing that the license should be revoked or suspended, or that the
licensee should be fined, state the reason or reasons for such determination in
a written order, and state either the amount of the fine, the period of
suspension, or that the license has been revoked, and shall serve a copy of
such order within the five (5) days upon the licensee. The findings of the
local liquor control commission shall be predicated upon competent evidence.
   I.   Appeals 10 :
      1.   a. Except as provided in this subsection I1, any order or action of
the local liquor control commission levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine
on a licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending
or refusing to revoke or suspend a license, or refusing for more than thirty
(30) days to grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license
may, within twenty (20) days after notice of such order or action, be appealed
by any resident of the village or any person interested, to the state
commission.
         b.   In any case where a licensee appeals to the state commission from
an order or action of the local liquor control commission having the effect of
suspending or revoking a license, denying a renewal application, or refusing to
grant a license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the licensed
business pending the decision of the state commission and the expiration of the
time allowed for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing
is filed, the licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business
until the denial of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the
decision on rehearing.
      2.   In any case in which a licensee appeals to the state commission a
suspension or revocation by the local liquor control commission that is the
second or subsequent such suspension or revocation placed on that licensee
within the preceding twelve (12) month period, the licensee shall consider the
suspension or revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the local liquor
control commission's action has been issued by the state commission and shall
cease all activity otherwise authorized by the license. The state commission
shall expedite, to the greatest extent possible, its consideration of any
appeal that is an appeal of a second or subsequent suspension or revocation
within the past twelve (12) month period.
      3.   Any appeal of the decision and findings of the local liquor control
commission in subsection I1 of this section shall be limited to a review of the
official record of the proceedings of the local liquor control commission. The
official record shall be a "certified official record" of the proceedings taken
and prepared by a certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter. A
copy of this record shall be filed by the local liquor control commission
within five (5) days after notice of the filing of such appeal under
subsections I1 and/or I2 of this section is received by the village from the
state commission. The appellant/licensee shall pay for the cost of the
transcript. If the appellant/licensee refuses to pay for the cost of the
preparation of the official record, the local liquor control commission is not
obligated to file the record with the state commission. (Ord. 442, 6-2-1999)
 
Notes
1  2. 235 ILCS 5/4-4.
2  1. 235 ILCS 5/7-7.
3  2. 235 ILCS 5/10-2.
4  3. 235 ILCS 5/10-3.
5  1. 235 ILCS 5/10-4.
6  2. 235 ILCS 5/10-5.
7  3. 235 ILCS 5/7-13.
8  4. 235 ILCS 5/10-7.
9  1. 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
10 1. 235 ILCS 5/7-9.
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Certificate Of Registration Required
4-3-3: Application For Certificate
4-3-4: Registration Fee
4-3-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate; Contents
4-3-6: Time Limit On Soliciting
4-3-7: First Amendment Solicitations
4-3-8: “No Knock” Registry And Prohibition On Solicitation
4-3-9: Revocation Of Certificate
4-3-10:    Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the following meanings:
REGISTERED SOLICITORS: Shall mean and include any person who has obtained a
valid certificate of registration as hereinafter provided and which certificate
is in the possession of the solicitor or his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Shall mean and include any one or more of the following activities:
seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise and
services of any kind, care or description whatsoever for any kind of
consideration whatever; or seeking to obtain prospective customers for
application for purchase of insurance of any size, kind or character; or
seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers
and every type or kind of publication; or seeking to obtain gifts or
contributions of money, clothing, or any other valuable things for the support
or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit association, organization,
corporation or project. (1995 Code § 3.201)
4-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every person desiring to engage in soliciting from persons in a residence
within the village is hereby required to make written application for a
certificate of registration as provided in this chapter. (1995 Code § 3.202)
4-3-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Application for certificate of registration shall be made upon the form
provided by the village president or village clerk and filed with such
president or clerk. Applicants shall truthfully state in full the following
information requested on the application:
      1.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; business address if other than residence address;
and social security number.
      2.   Name and address of the person, firm, corporation or association by
whom the applicant is employed or whom he represents.
      3.   Age of applicant.
      4.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied.
      5.   Description sufficient for identification of such matter of
soliciting in which the applicant will engage.
      6.   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
certificate under this chapter, if any.
      7.   Has the certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this chapter ever been revoked?
      8.   Has applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating solicitors?
      9.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a felony?
      10.   Any additional information that the President deems necessary.
   B.   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   C.   Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as
filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be identified
with a duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration
issued under the provisions of this chapter and of the denial of applications.
(1995 Code § 3.203)
4-3-4: REGISTRATION FEE:
A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid by each applicant at the
time of making the application which shall not be refundable in the event said
application is denied. Said fee may be waived if, in the discretion of the
Village President or Village Clerk, the solicitation is for a charity. (Ord.
629-2017, 7-17-2017)
4-3-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE; CONTENTS:
The Village President or Village Clerk, after consideration of the application
and all information obtained and relative thereto, shall deny the issuance or
issue a certificate of registration to the applicant. The certificate of
registration shall state the expiration date thereof. (1995 Code § 3.204)
4-3-6: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring a doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon or rap
or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting", as
defined in section
4-3-1 of this chapter, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after sunset of any
weekday or at any time on a Sunday or on a State or national holiday. (1995
Code § 3.205)
4-3-7: FIRST AMENDMENT SOLICITATIONS:
Persons soliciting for causes protected by the first amendment of the United
States Constitution shall procure a certificate of registration without payment
of the prescribed fee and shall not be restricted as to days or hours of
solicitation. (2012 Code)
4-3-8: “NO KNOCK” REGISTRY AND PROHIBITION ON SOLICITATION:
   A.   No person may engage in door-to-door solicitation at any residence
without prior invitation from the resident or occupant of the residence if the
resident or occupant of the residence:
      1.   Is registered with the village’s “No Knock” registry for door-to-
door commercial solicitations; or
      2.   Prominently displays a notice stating “No Solicitors” or “No
Solicitation” on or near the main entrance or door to te residence; or
      3.   Asks and/or directs the person soliciting to leave the residence.
   B.   Village residents may register for the “No Knock” registry by
submitting their residence by registering with the Village Clerk of the Village
of Cerro Gordo, indicating that the resident or occupant of a residence within
the Village of Cerro Gordo prohibits solicitation at their residence.
   C.   The Village Clerk of the Village of Cerro Gordo shall maintain the “No
Knock” registry, and provide a copy of the registry to those obtaining permits
under this title. (Ord. 696-2025, 6-16-2025)
4-3-9: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by the
Village President or Village Clerk if the owner of the certificate is convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or has made a false
material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for
the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given to the
holder of the certificate in person or by registered or certified United States
mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the mailing of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void. (1995 Code § 3.204; amd. Ord. 696-2025, 6-16-2025)
4-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section 1-4-1 of this
Code for each offense. (1995 Code § 3.207; amd. 2012 Code; amd. Ord. 696-2025,
6-16-2025)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE COLLECTORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: License Requirements
4-4-2: Garbage Rates
4-4-3: Garbage Collection Regulations
4-4-1: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of collecting
garbage within the village unless he be licensed therefor. The village board
shall issue a license to one applicant. The license fee shall be one hundred
twenty five dollars ($125.00). The licensee shall be the garbage collector for
the village during the pleasure of the village president and the board of
trustees. (1995 Code §§ 3.301, 3.302; amd. 2012 Code)
4-4-2: GARBAGE RATES:
Rates shall be set by the collector as approved by the village board. (1995
Code § 3.303)
4-4-3: GARBAGE COLLECTION REGULATIONS:
The village board shall have the power to make regulations and rules to govern
the duties of the garbage collector. (1995 Code § 3.304)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definition
5-1-2: Nuisances Prohibited
5-1-3: Enumeration Of Nuisances
5-1-4: Inoperable/Unlicensed Vehicles
5-1-5: Common Law Nuisances
5-1-6: Disclosure Of Principal
5-1-7: Nonsummary Abatement Procedure
5-1-8: Summary Abatement Procedure
5-1-9: Costs
5-1-10: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITION:
A "public nuisance" is defined as a thing, act, occupation, condition or use of
property which shall continue for such length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or
safety of the public.
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency.
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, or other
public way. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006)
5-1-2: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person owning or in possession, charge or control of any building or
premises shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit to exist
any public nuisance within the village or within the police jurisdiction of the
village. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006)
5-1-3: ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES:
Specifically, but not in limitation thereof, the following constitute public
nuisances:
   A.   Any well, cistern, hole, pit, pool or similar structure, or abandoned
excavation or shaft that is open and easily accessible to children or passersby
and/or of sufficient depth or steepness to endanger their safety, or any
undrained and abandoned excavation or pool.
   B.   Any open burning contrary to the regulations of the Illinois pollution
control board.
   C.   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
concrete, bricks, branches, brush, tires, rotting lumber, bedding, packing
material, scrap metal, or any material which may harbor flies, mosquitoes,
disease carrying insects, rats or other vermin, or which constitutes a fire
hazard.
   D.   To obstruct or pollute any watercourse, water supply of the village or
any drainage ditch.
   E.   To permit or maintain a stagnant pool of water which may attract
mosquitoes or other disease carrying insects.
   F.   To cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney,
engine or other fuel consuming device so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to
residents. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006)
   G.   To use any premises in the village for the storing or leaving of worn
out, inoperable, or abandoned camping trailers, trailers, wagons, or machinery
or inoperable or unused appliances of any kind, or any parts thereof. (Ord.
527, 5-19-2008)
   H.   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation, or
own, maintain or keep a structure or dwelling which is dangerous or detrimental
to life, safety or health because of lack of repair, defects in the plumbing
system, lighting or ventilation, the existence of contagious diseases or
unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among persons residing in such
premises or residing in proximity thereof.
   I.   To leave, store, maintain, and/or fail to properly dispose of auto
parts, appliances, building materials, tires, trash, refuse, debris, lawn and
yard waste, furnishings not ordinarily used outdoors, and/or electronics upon
the property.
   J.   Any nuisance so defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 . (Ord. 504, 6-
19-2006; amd. Ord. 695-2025, 6-16-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/47-5.
5-1-4: INOPERABLE/UNLICENSED VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven
(7) days, the engine, transmission, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels, transmission or other parts have been altered,
damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own power, and/or any vehicle which does not display current license
plates or have proof of current registration if license and registration are
required by law for the vehicle to travel on public roads in the state of
Illinois. However, inoperable vehicle shall not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, nor to any motor
vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, nor to a motor vehicle
on the premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of
motor vehicles.
   VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, dirt bikes, tractors,
buggies, wagons, boats, personal watercraft, lawn mowers, campers, snowmobiles,
four-wheelers, golf carts and motorized scooters. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006; amd.
2012 Code)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Inoperable and/or unlicensed vehicles, whether on
public or private property and not enclosed in a building, are declared to be
nuisances.
   C.   Abatement Of Nuisance: Any person is required to dispose of any
inoperable vehicle under his control within seven (7) days after receiving
written notice from the village stating that such person is to dispose of any
inoperable vehicle under his control within seven (7) days, or such inoperable
vehicle may be removed and disposed of in accordance with chapter 4, article II
of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006)
5-1-5: COMMON LAW NUISANCES:
In all cases in this chapter where no provision is made defining what are
nuisances and how the same may be abated, removed or prevented, in addition to
those declared herein, those offenses known to the common law and to the
statutes of Illinois as nuisances may, in case the same exist within the
jurisdiction of the village, be treated as such and proceeded against as
provided in this chapter or any other provision of law applicable thereto.
(Ord. 504, 6-19-2006)
5-1-6: DISCLOSURE OF PRINCIPAL:
Every agent or other person having charge, control or management or who
collects or receives the rents of any lands, premises, or other property in the
village shall disclose the name of the person from whom such agent or other
person is acting upon demand of any inspector or agent of the village. (Ord.
504, 6-19-2006)
5-1-7: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Except where otherwise provided by the ordinances of the village, any
officer of the village possessing police powers may serve or cause to be served
a notice, in writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot, building or premises or item of personalty in or
upon which any nuisance exists, requiring said person to abate the nuisance
within a specified reasonable time, in such manner as the notice shall direct.
   B.   If the person so served and notified does not abate the nuisance within
the specified reasonable time, the corporate authorities may proceed to abate
the nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law, including, without limiting
the generality thereof, the following:
      1.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined by section
5-1-10 of this chapter by instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
      2.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006)
5-1-8: SUMMARY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the village possessing police powers,
the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent threat of
serious injury to persons or serious damage to personal or real property, or if
the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only minor damage to the
items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the continuation of the
nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or property or a
substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life normally present in
the community, such officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance; provided
further, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession,
charge or control of the real or personal property which has become a nuisance
is unknown or cannot readily be found, the village officer with police power
may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the abatement of the
nuisance requires continuing acts by the corporate authorities beyond the
initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency abatement, it may
seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent basis through judicial process
as soon as reasonably possible. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006)
5-1-9: COSTS:
The cost of abating a public nuisance shall be borne by the owner of the
property or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance. Such cost
shall be assessed against the real estate as other special taxes and shall
include the attorney fees of the village. The costs enumerated in this section
shall constitute a lien on the premises, and said lien shall be perfected by
the village clerk filing a notice of said lien with the county recorder of
deeds. Said lien shall specifically enumerate the costs, the street address of
the property and, if known, the owner and legal description of the property.
(Ord. 504, 6-19-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
5-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each and every day during or on which a violation occurs. The
removal and disposal of any vehicle or object shall not be considered a
recovery or penalty so as to bar enforcement of any penalty that may be
applicable. (Ord. 504, 6-19-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Containers
5-2-3: Unlawful Disposal
5-2-4: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Includes all putrescible matter.
RUBBISH: Means and includes all nonputrescible matter, except "trash" as
defined in this section.
TRASH: Includes grass, lawn rakings and other types of yard or agricultural
matter. (1995 Code § 9.201)
5-2-2: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Required: Every owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of every dwelling
unit, motel, hotel, restaurant and other types of businesses on whose premises
garbage, rubbish or trash is stored shall provide and at all times keep within
such premises garbage containers sufficient to hold all garbage which may
accumulate on the premises between collections and disposal, and shall place
such containers at all times so as to be accessible for removal and emptying
and where they shall not be a public nuisance. (1995 Code § 9.203)
   B.   Specifications: Refuse carts furnished by the refuse collector shall
not exceed ninety five (95) gallons' capacity and shall not be filled to exceed
two hundred (200) pounds in weight as specified on the container. All other
garbage and rubbish containers shall be constructed of metal, rubber or plastic
not easily corroded, watertight and rodentproof and shall have a tightfitting
cover. Such container shall have a capacity of not more than thirty five (35)
gallons and shall be equipped with suitable handles. No container, other than a
refuse cart supplied by the refuse collector, shall be so filled to exceed
fifty (50) pounds' total weight. (Ord. 469, 1-21-2002)
5-2-3: UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful for a person to place garbage, rubbish or trash on village
alleys, streets or other public places, or on private property not owned or
occupied by such persons. (1995 Code § 9.204)
5-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating provisions of this chapter shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each and every day during or on which a violation occurs. (1995
Code § 9.205; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GRASS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Height Limit And Flowering; Nuisance Declared; Abatement Required
5-3-2: Abatement By Village; Costs
5-3-3: Lien Claim
5-3-4: Penalties
5-3-1: HEIGHT LIMIT AND FLOWERING; NUISANCE DECLARED; ABATEMENT REQUIRED:
Weeds, grass or underbrush which has grown to a height of one foot (1') or more
or allowed to flower are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and any owner,
lessee, occupant or agent having control of any lot or any ground or any part
thereof within the village shall cut or cause the same to be cut within five
(5) days after being notified to do so by the village clerk. (1995 Code §
9.301)
5-3-2: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
If such person or entity shall fail to comply with said notice, the village
president shall cause the same to be cut, and the expense thereof shall be
repaid to the village by the owner, person or entity in control of said
premises. (1995 Code § 9.302)
5-3-3: LIEN CLAIM:
All charges for said cutting shall be a lien upon the premises, and whenever a
bill for said cutting remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after same has been
rendered by the village, the village clerk shall file a lien claim as provided
by statute. (1995 Code § 9.303)
5-3-4: PENALTIES:
In addition to said cutting expense, any person or entity who has allowed said
nuisance to continue after being notified by the village clerk shall be in
violation of this chapter and shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
first offense and not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for all subsequent offenses. (1995 Code §
9.304; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 647-2019, 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Agency Created; Purpose; Composition
6-2A-2: Coordinator
6-2A-3: Oath Of Office
6-2A-4: Functions
6-2A-5: Service As Mobile Support Team
6-2A-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
6-2A-7: Emergency Action
6-2A-8: Compensation
6-2A-9: Reimbursement By State
6-2A-10: Purchases And Expenditures
6-2A-11: Office
6-2A-12: Appropriation; Tax Levy
6-2A-1: AGENCY CREATED; PURPOSE; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created the Cerro Gordo ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by explosion of
atomic or other means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal
actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or
other natural or technological causes, in accordance with the "Illinois
emergency management act". The village ESDA shall consist of the coordinator
and such additional members as may be selected by the coordinator. (1995 Code §
8.301; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2A-2: COORDINATOR:
The coordinator of village ESDA shall be appointed by the president and shall
serve until removed by the president. He shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training and operation of the ESDA subject to
the direction and control of the village president. In the event of the
absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as coordinator, the president
or any person designated by him shall be and act as coordinator until a new
appointment is made. (1995 Code § 8.302)
6-2A-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
   I,                    , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the United
States and the constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate nor am nor have I been a member of a political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or this state by force or violence; and that during such time as
I am affiliated with the Cerro Gordo ESDA organization, I will not advocate nor
become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or this state by force or
violence.
(1995 Code § 8.310)
6-2A-4: FUNCTIONS:
The village ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within village as shall be
prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the governor,
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor
and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in
the "state EMA act". (1995 Code § 8.303; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2A-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the village ESDA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the director of the state EMA as
provided by law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by
the coordinator of the village ESDA organization. Any member of a mobile
support team who is a village employee or officer while serving on call to duty
by the governor or the state director, shall receive the compensation and have
the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or
office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village,
while so serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as
provided by law. (1995 Code § 8.304; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2A-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
villages, or cities or other political subdivisions, but no such agreement
shall be effective until it has been approved by the village president and by
the state director of EMA. (1995 Code § 8.305; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2A-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of Illinois of a explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means of
sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes, it shall
be the duty of the village ESDA to cooperate fully with the state EMA and with
the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (1995 Code
§ 8.306; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2A-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the state director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held. Members who are not village employees or officers shall receive for such
training time such compensation as may be established by the village president.
(1995 Code § 8.307; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2A-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The state treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state director of EMA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the governor or state director of
EMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident
to ESDA activities as provided by law. (1995 Code § 8.308; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2A-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The village president may, on recommendation of the village coordinator of
ESDA, authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in case of such
disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster. (1995 Code § 8.309; amd. 2012
Code)
6-2A-11: OFFICE:
The village president is authorized to designate space in a village building or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the president, for the village ESDA as its
office. (1995 Code § 8.311)
6-2A-12: APPROPRIATION; TAX LEVY:
The village board may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law, and may levy in addition, for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to
exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value
of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the
"state EMA act". However, that amount collectible under such levy shall in no
event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (1995 Code § 8.312; amd.
2012 Code)
ARTICLE B. EMERGENCY AND DISASTER PROCEDURES
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Definitions
6-2B-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-2B-3: Emergency Powers
6-2B-4: Termination Of Emergency
6-2B-5: Notice Of Emergency
6-2B-6: Penalty
6-2B-7: Interpretation
6-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words shall have the following meanings
respectively set out for each:
CURFEW: The general prohibition against any person or persons being upon the
streets, alleys, ways or public places in the village, or specified parts
thereof, or moving from place to place by whatever means, excepting those
having a continuing responsibility to the public during the emergency or
disaster, and those that may be specifically exempted for a particular purpose
by the authority charged with enforcing said prohibition.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property, resulting from any natural or manmade cause
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, water
contamination, epidemic, air contamination, extended periods of severe and
inclement weather, infestation, critical shortage of fuel or energy, explosion,
mob action, riot or hostile military or paramilitary action.
EMERGENCY: A combination of circumstances requiring immediate action to
suppress or prevent the spread of disease or to remove imminent danger to
persons or property, and includes disasters. (1995 Code § 8.401)
6-2B-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
In the event of the occurrence of facts appearing to constitute an emergency,
the president, or any officer of the village lawfully acting in the stead of
president if he/she shall then not be immediately available, may declare or
proclaim the existence of such emergency by signing a statement of the existing
facts constituting the emergency and at that time, or within a reasonable time
thereafter, when circumstances admit, taking oath as to the truth of said
statement. Such statement shall be filed with the village clerk as soon as
practicable. (1995 Code § 8.402)
6-2B-3: EMERGENCY POWERS:
Upon the proclamation or declaration of an emergency or at any time during the
continuation thereof, to the extent deemed necessary to meet said emergency and
to protect and conserve the public health, safety and welfare, the authority
responsible for the same shall have the power and authority:
   A.   To suspend the provisions of any regulatory ordinance or statute
prescribing procedures for the conduct of the government or affairs of the
village, if strict compliance therewith would prevent, hinder or delay action
necessary to cope with the emergency.
   B.   To utilize all available resources of the village as are reasonably
necessary to cope with said emergency.
   C.   To enforce a curfew throughout the village or any part or parts thereof
with such conditions as to application, time or otherwise as deemed necessary,
or to control ingress and egress to or from the village, or any part or parts
thereof, the movement of persons therein, or the occupation of premises
therein.
   D.   To suspend or limit the dispensing, delivery or transportation of
alcoholic liquor, firearms, ammunition, explosives, corrosives, flammables or
combustibles.
   E.   To recommend and enforce evacuation of all or a part of the population
of any stricken or threatened area if necessary for the preservation of life or
other emergency mitigation, response or recovery, and to prescribe routes,
modes of transportation and destination in connection therewith.
   F.   To exercise any power or perform any function of the corporate
authority of the village.
   G.   To close commercial establishments, places of amusement or
accommodations, and other places of public resort.
   H.   To control, restrict and regulate the use, sale or distribution of
food, fuel, clothing, and other commodities, materials, goods or services.
   I.   To perform and exercise such other functions, powers and duties as may
be necessary to promote and secure the safety and protection of the community
and its population. (1995 Code § 8.403)
6-2B-4: TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY:
The proclamation or declaration, and the powers and authority attached thereto,
shall extend until terminated by the issuing authority, but in no event beyond
adjournment of the next regular or special meeting of the village board
subsequent to the issuance thereof; except, that said limitation shall not
prevent issuance of additional proclamations or declarations. (1995 Code §
8.404)
6-2B-5: NOTICE OF EMERGENCY:
Upon issuance thereof, notice of such proclamation or declaration, or of
exercise of any power or authority responsive thereto, shall be as widely
disseminated as the conditions of the time admit, but in no event less than
communication of the substance thereof by the most direct means then available
to such news media as may then be reached, whether by telephone, hand delivery
or otherwise, and by posting a copy thereof at the village hall or at the place
from which the emergency operations are being centrally controlled. (1995 Code
§ 8.405)
6-2B-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article or refusing to obey or
respond to any lawful order issued in exercise of any power or authority
ordained hereby shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 8.406; amd. 2012 Code)
6-2B-7: INTERPRETATION:
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to impair any other power or
authority of the village or the departments thereof but shall be construed,
together therewith and in addition thereto, liberally, to secure, protect,
promote and enhance the general public health, safety and welfare. (1995 Code §
8.407)
ARTICLE C. NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SECTION:
6-2C-1: Adoption Of System; Village Policy
6-2C-1: ADOPTION OF SYSTEM; VILLAGE POLICY:
It shall be the public policy of the village to adopt the national incident
management system (NIMS) concept of emergency planning and unified command. It
shall further be the policy of the village to train public officials
responsible for emergency management. (Res., 3-21-2005)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
6-3-1: Regulations Regarding Fires
6-3-2: Flammable Materials
6-3-3: Inspections
6-3-4: Penalty
6-3-1: REGULATIONS REGARDING FIRES:
   A.   Location:
      1.   No fires shall be started within one hundred feet (100') of any
gasoline station, fertilizer plant or storage area, elevator or business
establishment.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any
building or other structure or on any street or sidewalk or pavement as to
endanger it. (1995 Code § 8.601)
   B.   Time Limit:
      1.   No fires shall burn for more than four (4) consecutive hours.
      2.   All fires shall be completely extinguished by six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. Central Standard Time. (1995 Code § 8.602)
   C.   Supervision: All fires must be personally attended unless said fire is
in a container with a lid thereon. (1995 Code § 8.603)
   D.   Extreme Weather Conditions: In the event of extreme weather conditions
or other necessary circumstances, the mayor, in his sole discretion, may
temporarily ban any and all open burning permitted by this section for a period
not to exceed fourteen (14) days. The mayor may extend any emergency ban for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days with the advice and consent of the city
council. The mayor shall have authority to terminate any emergency ban put in
effect under this subsection. (Ord. 577-2012, 9-17-2012)
6-3-2: FLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
No person, firm or corporation, as owner, occupant or lessee of any building or
structure, shall keep or maintain, or allow to be kept or maintained, on such
premises any combustible, explosive, or flammable material in quantities or
under conditions which endanger the safety of said building or premises, or in
contravention of the laws of the state of Illinois, the provisions of this
section, or the reasonable orders of the fire chief of the Cerro Gordo fire
protection district. (1995 Code § 8.604)
6-3-3: INSPECTIONS:
The fire chief of the Cerro Gordo fire protection district shall have the right
to make inspections of buildings or materials therein for the purpose of
eliminating conditions, if any, that might be hazardous or dangerous,
particularly in reference to fires. Upon finding any such hazardous or
dangerous conditions, it shall be the duty of the fire chief of the Cerro Gordo
fire protection district to direct that such conditions be corrected. As a
guide in giving orders or suggestions for correction of hazardous fire
conditions, either as to buildings or materials therein, or the business
operated therein, said fire chief is hereby authorized to use the international
fire code, 2009 edition, as published by the International Code Council, and
the rules and regulations as therein set forth. (1995 Code § 8.606; amd. 2012
Code)
6-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each day a violation occurs or
continues shall be considered a separate offense. (1995 Code § 8.605; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Certain Animals Prohibited
6-4-2: Restrictions On Certain Animals
6-4-3: Running At Large; Impoundment
6-4-4: Animal Houses
6-4-5: Noisy Animals
6-4-6: Animals As Prizes
6-4-7: Cruelty To Animals
6-4-8: Dangerous Animals
6-4-9: Penalty
6-4-1: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
No person, firm or corporation shall keep any cattle, sheep, swine, or goats at
any place upon any premises within the village except temporarily in stockyards
for sale or shipment and except temporarily in packing plants for slaughter,
unless otherwise authorized in subsection
6-4-2B of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-601, 9-15-2014, eff. 9-16-2014)
6-4-2: RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN ANIMALS:
   A.   Chickens, Fowl And Rabbits:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep on
any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him in the village any rabbits,
chickens, ducks, pigeons, geese, or other domestic fowl unless such animals are
kept in an enclosure, no part of which is within seventy five feet (75') of any
dwelling house occupied by human beings, except any dwelling house occupied by
such person, firm or corporation. (1995 Code § 10.103)
      2.   No person, firm or corporation shall sell or cause to be sold
chickens or ducklings younger than eight (8) weeks of age in quantities of less
than ten (10) in a single purchase. (1995 Code § 10.106)
   B.   Horses And Cows: It shall be unlawful to keep a horse or cow on a tract
of land less than two (2) acres. One additional horse or cow can be kept with
an additional two (2) acres with the permission of the village board. (Ord.
2014-601, 9-15-2014, eff. 9-16-2014)
6-4-3: RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any domestic
animal or fowl, of the species of horse, cattle, mule, geese, or chicken, to
run or go at large at any time within the village, and any person being the
owner or keeper of such animals or fowl who shall knowingly permit the same to
run at large in violation of this subsection shall be subject to the penalty
provided in section
6-4-9 of this chapter, together with such charges as may be provided by
ordinance. (1995 Code § 10.101)
   B.   Impoundment: It shall be the duty of the village police officers to see
that all animals or fowl which are unlawfully at large are impounded in the
manner provided by ordinance. (1995 Code § 10.105)
6-4-4: ANIMAL HOUSES:
All coops, hutches, doghouses, kennels, pens, enclosures or areas in which any
animal is kept must be maintained in a sanitary manner and be regularly cleaned
in order to prevent any accumulation of dirt or offal. (1995 Code § 10.104)
6-4-5: NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace of
residents by loud noises at any time of the day or night. (1995 Code § 10.109)
6-4-6: ANIMALS AS PRIZES:
No person, firm or corporation shall give away or cause to be given away any
live vertebrate animal as a prize for or as an inducement to enter any contest,
game or other competition or as an inducement to enter a place of amusement or
to attract trade to a place of amusement. (1995 Code § 10.107)
6-4-7: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be cruel to any animal in any of the
following ways:
   A.   By overloading, overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or cruelly killing any animal or causing or knowingly
or allowing the same to be done.
   B.   By cruelly working any animal, including old, maimed, infirm, sick or
disabled animals, or causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done.
   C.   By failing to provide any animal in his or her charge or custody, as
owner or otherwise, with proper and necessary food, drink or shelter.
   D.   By abandoning or turning out to die any animal, including old, maimed,
infirm, sick or disabled animals.
   E.   By carrying or driving, or causing to be carried or driven, or kept any
animal in any unnecessarily cruel manner. (1995 Code § 10.108)
6-4-8: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
No person shall keep within the village limits any dangerous animal covered by
the Illinois dangerous animal act and the Illinois department of natural
resources regulations. (1995 Code § 10.111; amd. 2012 Code)
6-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 10.112; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Definitions
6-4A-2: Inoculation Requirements
6-4A-3: Running At Large
6-4A-4: Noisy Dogs And Cats
6-4A-5: Nuisance Dogs And Cats
6-4A-6: Vicious Dogs And Cats
6-4A-7: Removal Of Dog Waste
6-4A-8: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposition Provisions
6-4A-9: Rabies Control
6-4A-10: Enforcement
6-4A-11: Penalty
6-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings set forth in this section:
 
CAT:                                 Any feline animal above the age of two (2)
                                     months.
                                     Mechanical exercise of authority over, by
                                     use of a chain, leash, line, cord, rope or
DIRECT, EFFECTIVE, PHYSICAL CONTROL: similar thing held by the person in
                                     control of, a dog and securely attached to
                                     such dog.
DOG:                                 Any canine animal above the age of two (2)
                                     months.
                                     Have a right of property in, or keep or
                                     harbor, or act as custodian of, or have
OWN:                                 the care of, or knowingly permit, or
                                     encourage to remain on or about the
                                     premises occupied by the owning person.
                                     Any person who has a right of property in,
                                     or who keeps or harbors, or acts as
                                     custodian of, or who has in his care a dog
OWNER:                               or cat, including a person who knowingly
                                     permits or who encourages a dog or cat to
                                     remain on or about the premises occupied
                                     by said person.
                                     Suffer, or permit, or cause a dog or cat
                                     to be at any place within the village, at
                                     any time, other than the premises occupied
RUN AT LARGE:                        by the owner thereof, except in the case
                                     of a dog, when such dog is under the
                                     direct, effective, physical control of the
                                     owner thereof, or his agent, or a member
                                     of the immediate family of said owner.
                                     A dog or cat which has once bitten a
                                     person, or a dog which, by barking or
                                     snarling or growling or snapping at a
                                     person, or rushing at or upon, or chasing
                                     a person, or by other overt action,
VICIOUS, DANGEROUS OR FIERCE:        displays an inclination to do harm to or
                                     to frighten a person, and includes a dog
                                     or cat which attacks or worries or
                                     mutilates, or wounds, or kills a dog, a
                                     cat, or a domestic animal. (2012 Code;
                                     amd. Ord. 678-2022, 12-19-2022)
 
6-4A-2: INOCULATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Rabies Inoculation Required:
      1.   No person shall own, within the village, a dog or cat which has not
been inoculated against rabies.
      2.   No person shall fail to annually vaccinate a dog or cat within
thirty (30) days following the previous year's vaccination date.
      3.   Any dog or cat, whether running at large or otherwise, which is
found within the village without a tag showing that such dog or cat has been
inoculated against rabies as set forth in this section shall be taken up and
impounded as herein provided.
   B.   Collar Or Harness And Tags Required:
      1.   Each dog or cat shall be provided by the owner with a suitable
collar or harness to which the rabies inoculation tag for that dog or cat shall
be securely attached. Both collar or harness and rabies inoculation tag shall
be worn by such dog or cat at all times.
      2.   No person shall, within the village, own a dog or cat unless such
dog or cat has a rabies inoculation tag which are worn by said dog or cat as
herein provided.
      3.   Any dog or cat found within the village, whether running at large or
otherwise, without a rabies inoculation tag thereon shall be impounded as
herein provided. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 678-2022, 12-19-2022)
6-4A-3: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   No owner shall permit or suffer a dog or cat to run at large within the
village at any time.
   B.   Any dog or cat found running at large at any time within the village
shall be taken up and impounded as herein provided. (2012 Code)
6-4A-4: NOISY DOGS AND CATS:
No person shall, within the village, own a dog or cat which disturbs the peace
and quiet of any person or neighborhood by barking or whining or screeching or
howling. (2012 Code)
6-4A-5: NUISANCE DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated:
      1.   No person shall own within the village any animal which excessively
or continuously barks, howls, or whines; molests passersby; chases vehicles;
habitually attacks other domestic animals; trespasses on school grounds or
private property in such a manner as to damage property or disturb the peace
and quiet of any person or neighborhood by the aforesaid actions.
      2.   Any dog or cat which shall bite a person, scratch a person, or
injure a person so as to cause an abrasion or laceration or puncture of the
skin of such person is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   Impoundment: Any dog or cat declared to be a nuisance may be taken up
and impounded as herein provided. (2012 Code)
6-4A-6: VICIOUS DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   No person shall keep within the village a vicious or dangerous or
fierce animal.
   B.   Any dog or cat found to be vicious, dangerous or fierce may be taken up
and impounded. (2012 Code)
6-4A-7: REMOVAL OF DOG WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having charge of a dog within the
village to fail to promptly remove any defecation passed and deposited by such
dog at any place within the village (other than on property owned by or under
the control of such person) and to fail to dispose of the same in a trash
receptacle owned by the owner or person having charge of the dog, or owned by a
person consenting to disposal in his or her trash receptacle, or a receptacle
owned by the village. (2012 Code)
6-4A-8: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Impoundment And Term: Dogs or cats taken up under the provisions of
this article shall be impounded in some suitable place provided by the village
by contract or otherwise. Such dogs or cats shall be impounded for not less
than seven (7) days after the giving of notice as herein provided, unless
earlier redeemed by the owner as provided in this section.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: Within thirty six (36) hours after a dog or cat
is impounded, the person in charge of the place where said dog or cat is
impounded shall give notice thereof, as follows:
      1.   If the owner is known to the person impounding said dog or cat, or
is made known to said person within twenty four (24) hours after such dog or
cat is impounded, and the address of such owner is reasonably ascertainable,
said person shall mail notice to said owner, which notice shall show the date,
time and place of impoundment and shall recite the manner by which such dog or
cat may be redeemed.
      2.   If such a dog or cat does not have an inoculation tag upon it, and
the person impounding said dog or cat does not know the name of the owner, and
the name of the owner is not made known to said person within twenty-four (24)
hours of the impoundment of said dog or cat, then notice shall be given by said
person so impounding by posting a brief description of the size, color, and
breed, if known, of such dog or cat, along with a statement of the date, time,
and place each dog or cat was taken up, which notice shall be posted at the
place of impoundment.
      3.   Evidence of inoculation against rabies of such dog or cat within one
year next preceding the date such dog or cat is sought to be redeemed shall be
presented to the person who has impounded such dog or cat.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Dogs And Cats: Dogs or cats may be redeemed
from impoundment as follows:
      1.   The owner, or his agent, shall appear at the place of impoundment
during hours and on days approved by the place of impoundment.
      2.   Evidence of ownership satisfactory to the impounding agent shall be
presented to him, if requested by him.
      3.   Evidence of inoculation against rabies of such dog or cat within one
year next preceding the date such dog or cat is sought to be redeemed shall be
presented to the person who has impounded such dog or cat. Evidence of payment
of the license tax for that year shall be evidence of inoculation against
rabies.
      4.   Evidence of payment of the license tax for the year in which such
dog or cat is sought to be redeemed shall be presented to the person who has
impounded such dog or cat.
      5.   If evidence of inoculation is not submitted as required in
subsection C3 of this section, said dog or cat may be, upon the submission of
all other evidence required hereunder, redeemed by a licensed veterinarian who
shall deliver to said person impounding such dog or cat a statement in writing
that he has been paid to, and will, before releasing said dog or cat from his
custody, inoculate said dog or cat against rabies.
   D.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Dogs And Cats: Dogs or cats not redeemed from
impoundment as provided in this section shall be humanely destroyed or shall
otherwise be disposed of in such manner as may be from time to time authorized
by statute of the state of Illinois for disposition of stray dogs or cats.
(2012 Code; amd. Ord. 678-2022, 12-19-2022)
6-4A-9: RABIES CONTROL:
Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof to the contrary, the following
provisions shall apply to all dogs and cats:
   A.   When the owner of any dog or cat knows of or has been notified that
such dog or cat has bitten or has so injured any person as to cause an abrasion
of the skin of such person, or that a dog or cat is suffering from rabies, he
shall forthwith deliver said dog or cat to the person who impounds dogs or cats
or to a village police officer, whereupon said dog or cat shall be securely
confined for a period of at least ten (10) days for observation. Upon
appearance of any symptoms of rabies, said dog or cat shall be confined until
death, and then its head shall be removed in such a manner as not to injure the
brain and delivered to the county rabies inspector for examination. At the end
of the observation period, if no symptoms have appeared, such dog or cat shall
be returned to the owner.
   B.   Every veterinarian and other person who discovers any dog or cat or
dogs or cats within the village suffering with or showing symptoms of rabies
shall immediately report such fact to the county rabies inspector, to the
village clerk, to the village president, or to a village police officer giving
the name and place of residence, if known, of the person owning such dog or
cat, and the place where said dog or cat can be found. Such dog or cat shall be
thereupon securely confined as required in subsection A of this section.
   C.   All dogs or cats taken under subsections A and B of this section shall
be impounded as provided herein; except, that the owner of such dog or cat, in
lieu thereof, may, at his own expense, deliver such dog or cat to a licensed
veterinarian within a twenty (20) mile radius of the village for observation.
Such dog or cat shall be confined for observation; provided, that the
veterinarian shall, before returning any such dog or cat to the owner, notify
the county rabies inspector. (2012 Code)
6-4A-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of police officers, and other persons so
authorized by the village, by contract or otherwise, to investigate violations
of this article and to enforce the provisions of this article. Such enforcement
shall include the issuance of warnings, the issuance of citations, taking and
impounding of animals in violation hereof, and any other means necessary to
enforce and effectuate the purpose of this article.
   B.   Whenever a police officer or other person duly authorized by the
village to enforce this article witnesses or has knowledge, based on reasonable
grounds, of a violation by any person of any section of this article, such
person may be subject to the enforcement provisions set forth herein.
   C.   No person shall in any way interfere, attempt to interfere or cause
another person or animal to interfere or attempt to interfere with any
authorized person engaged in performance of his or her duties under this
article. (2012 Code)
6-4A-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
article shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and every day on which such a violation
occurs or continues shall be considered a separate offense. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Obscene Writings
6-5-2: Throwing Missiles; Throwing Or Depositing Sharp Objects
6-5-3: Killing Animals
6-5-4: Posting Bills
6-5-5: Penalty
6-5-1: OBSCENE WRITINGS:
It shall be unlawful to place open or expose to public view, write, mark, draw,
print, paste, stick, cut or make any indecent, lewd or obscene word, sentence,
design, figure, picture or poster. (1995 Code § 8.501)
6-5-2: THROWING MISSILES; THROWING OR DEPOSITING SHARP OBJECTS:
It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any ball or missile on any public
street or alley; and it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, nails,
tacks or other similar articles on any street, sidewalk or alley in the
village. (1995 Code § 8.502)
6-5-3: KILLING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing any animal, other than
as prescribed by law, within the village limits. (1995 Code § 8.503; amd. 2012
Code)
6-5-4: POSTING BILLS:
It shall be unlawful to post any bills or advertisements on any property
without the written consent of the owner thereof. (1995 Code § 8.504)
6-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1995 Code § 8.507; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Compliance With State Regulations
7-1-2: Speed Limits
7-1-3: Stop Intersections
7-1-4: Yield Right Of Way Streets
7-1-5: No U-Turns
7-1-6: Traffic On The Commons
7-1-7: Semitractor And Semitrailer Units
7-1-8: Enforcement And Penalties
7-1-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
All traffic laws shall be followed as specified in the Illinois vehicle code.
Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles or animals or driving animal
drawn vehicles, except those provisions of this title which, by their nature,
can have no application. (1995 Code § 8.201)
7-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Established: Speed limits are hereby established for the village.
   B.   Twenty Miles Per Hour: Wherever a speed limit sign is placed on any of
the following streets, no person shall drive a motor vehicle in excess of
twenty (20) miles per hour on said streets:
      Durfee Street between Jefferson Street and Jackson Street.
      East Carter Street between Madison Street and Jefferson Street.
      East Hunt Street between Jefferson Street and Madison Street.
      Madison Street between South Street and Franklin Street.
      Monroe Street between South Street and Durfee Street.
      North Madison Street between Hunt Street and Carter Street.
      South Street between Jefferson Street and Jackson Street.
      Wait Street between Jefferson Street and Jackson Street.
   C.   Penalties: Any person who shall violate the speed limit provisions in
this section, upon conviction, shall be fined one dollar ($1.00) for each mile
over said speed limit up to thirty (30) miles per hour, and for all speeds over
thirty (30) miles per hour shall be fined, in addition to the ten dollars
($10.00) for the first ten (10) miles per hour over the twenty (20) miles per
hour speed limit, the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each mile over thirty
(30) miles per hour. (1995 Code § 8.209)
7-1-3: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
Whenever a stop sign is placed at any of the following intersections, every
driver of a vehicle crossing the intersection shall stop such vehicle before
entering:
   A.   One-Way Stops:
      Entering either Bell Street or Abraham Street from east entrance of the
village park (contiguous to and west of Bell Street).
      Entering Carter Street from Adams Street from the south.
      Entering Carter Street from Jefferson Street from the south.
      Entering Carter Street from Monroe Street from the south.
      Entering Durfee Street from the high school drive from the south.
      Entering Franklin Street from Carmi Court.
      Entering Franklin Street from Washington Street from the south.
      Entering Jackson Street from Carter Street from the west.
      Entering Jackson Street from Durfee Street from the west.
      Entering Jackson Street from Hunt Street from the west.
      Entering Jackson Street from North Street from the west.
      Entering Jackson Street from Wait Street from the west.
      Entering Jefferson Street from Arnold Street from the east.
      Entering Jefferson Street from Meadowlane.
      Entering Jefferson Street from Park Street from the east.
      Entering Jefferson Street from the north entrance of the Forest Preserve
Park.
      Entering Jefferson Street from the south entrance of the Forest Preserve
Park.
      Entering Lincoln Street from Abraham Street from the west.
      Entering Lincoln Street from Crea Street from the west.
      Entering Lincoln Street from Hunt Street from the east.
      Entering Lincoln Street from Lincoln Court from the east.
      Entering Lincoln Street from South Street from the east.
      Entering Madison Street from the alleyway between South Street and Wait
Street.
      Entering Monroe Street from Durfee Street from the west.
      Entering Monroe Street from the alleyway between South Street and Wait
Street.
      Entering Oakley Road from Bell Street from the south.
      Entering Oakley Road from Lincoln Court from the south.
      Entering Oakley Road from Lincoln Street from the south.
      Entering Orchard Street from Meadowlane.
      Entering South Street from Adams Street.
      Entering South Street from Washington Street.
      Entering Washington Street from Carter Street from the west.
(1995 Code § 8.202; amd. Ord. 424, 8-21-1995)
   B.   Two-Way Stops:
      Entering Carter Street from Madison Street.
      Entering Carter Street from Washington Street on the north.
      At the intersection of Franklin Street and Lincoln Street prior to
entering said intersection from the west and from the north.
      Entering Hunt Street from Madison Street.
      Entering Jefferson Street from Franklin Street.
      Entering Jefferson Street from Frantz Street.
      Entering Jefferson Street from Hunt Street.
      Entering Jefferson Street from North Street.
      Entering Jefferson Street from Wait Street.
      Entering Lincoln Street from Carter Street.
      Entering Monroe Street from Hunt Street.
      Entering Monroe Street from North Street.
      Entering Wait Street from Adams Street.
      Entering Wait Street from Monroe Street.
      Entering Wait Street from Washington Street.
      Entering Washington Street from Carter Street on the east.
(1995 Code § 8.202; amd. Ord. 540, 11-30-2009)
   C.   Three-Way Stops:
      Intersection of Bell Street and Abraham Street.
      Intersection of Lincoln Street and Franklin Street.
      Intersection of Monroe Street and Durfee Street.
(1995 Code § 8.202)
   D.   Four-Way Stops:
      Intersection of Durfee Street and Jefferson Street.
      Intersection of Jefferson Street and South Street.
      Intersection of Madison Street and Durfee Street.
      Intersection of Madison Street and South Street.
      Intersection of Madison Street and Wait Street.
      Intersection of Monroe Street and South Street.
      Intersection of South Street and Jackson Street.
      Intersection of Washington Street and Hunt Street.
(Ord. 540, 11-30-2009)
7-1-4: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY STREETS:
The following streets and any other street designated by ordinance as a yield
right of way street and so posted are hereby declared to be yield right of way
streets:
   Entering Bell Street from Carter Street.
   Entering Bell Street from Crea Street.
   Entering Franklin Street from Washington Street from the north.
   Entering Hunt Street from Adams Street.
   Entering Madison Street from Franklin Street from the west.
(1995 Code § 8.203; amd. Ord. 426, 6-3-1996)
7-1-5: NO U-TURNS:
No vehicle shall turn around at the following locations in the village:
   That portion of South Street between Jefferson Street and Jackson Street,
except at its intersection with other streets.
(1995 Code § 8.205)
7-1-6: TRAFFIC ON THE COMMONS:
   A.   One-Way Traffic: Premises located north of South Street and south of
the railroad tracks betwee   n Jackson Street and Monroe Street, usually known
as "The Commons", shall be a one-way street with traffic running west only.
   B.   Stop Areas: A stop sign shall be erected at the west end of said
premises.
   C.   Parking Regulations:
      1.   Parking on said premises shall be diagonal only, facing south on
South Street as designated by painted lines.
      2.   No parking shall be allowed on said premises other than diagonal
parking. (1995 Code § 8.208)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates provisions of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 8.208; amd. 2012 Code)
7-1-7: SEMITRACTOR AND SEMITRAILER UNITS:
   A.   Definitions:
   SEMITRACTOR UNIT: Any self-propelled vehicle used on roadways and generally
used for moving semitrailer units on roadways.
   SEMITRAILER UNIT: Any self-propelled vehicle commonly used for
transportation of personal property on roadways and which is commonly pulled by
a semitractor unit.
   B.   Use On Village Streets:
      1.   Unless specifically for pick up or delivery, no loaded or partially
loaded semitrailer units shall be allowed to travel on the village streets
unless said streets are covered with concrete.
      2.   Empty semitrailer and semitractor units may travel upon any village
streets.
   C.   Parking Restrictions: No semitrailer unit nor any semitractor unit, nor
the combination of said units, may be parked on any street within the village
for a period of more than thirty (30) minutes unless actually engaged in
loading or unloading. Even if actually engaged in loading or unloading, no such
unit or units shall be located on said streets for a period of more than four
(4) hours. (1995 Code § 8.207)
   D.   Engine Noise: No engine of any semitractor unit shall be allowed to
remain running for a period of more than thirty (30) minutes after said unit is
parked in any portion of the village that is zoned residential, and no engine
in said unit shall be started after stopping the engine in any portion of the
village that is zoned residential and be allowed to run for more than thirty
(30) minutes without moving said unit. (Ord. 588-2013, 4-15-2013, eff. 4-15-
2013)
   E.   Penalty: Any person or entity violating this section shall be fined not
more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) upon the first conviction thereof and
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for any subsequent conviction thereof. (1995 Code § 8.207; amd. 2012
Code)
7-1-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines: The following fines shall be levied for the violations listed
below:
1. Violation of 1 hour parking zone         $1.00
2. Violation of no parking zone             2.00
3. Blocking driveway or sidewalk            2.00
4. Double parking on any street             2.00
5. Blocking alley                           2.00
6. Violation of posted signs on any street  3.00
7. Parking on posted snow removal route     3.00
8. Parking improperly on any street         3.00
9. Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant 5.00
 
(1995 Code § 8.210)
   B.   Violation Tickets: The village is authorized to have its police chief
or any other police officer issue tickets for the violation of any provision
listed in subsection A of this section. In addition to the violations listed in
subsection A of this section, any other violation regarding streets in the
village, as defined in this code, shall be listed on the ticket as "other", and
the fine therefor shall be five dollars ($5.00), unless another amount is set
forth therein. (1995 Code § 8.210; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Payment Of Fine: The fines for these violations may be paid by
enclosing the amount of fine in a citation envelope, which envelope shall be
placed on the windshield or other conspicuous place on the vehicle by the
officer writing the violation ticket, and by placing first class postage on the
reverse side of the envelope, and by depositing same in any U.S. mailbox, and
this information shall be printed on the said citation envelope.
   D.   Failure To Pay Fine: In the event the fines set out in this section are
not paid within seventy two (72) hours after issuance of the violation ticket,
said fines shall automatically be doubled, and the village is authorized to
issue an enforcement warrant to be served on the person or persons who are the
owner or owners of said vehicle, and the cost of serving same is arbitrarily
determined to be five dollars ($5.00) which shall be "court costs". In the
event the vehicle is in the name of more than one person, it is specifically
provided that only one person need be served. (1995 Code § 8.210)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Parking Restrictions
7-2-2: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
7-2-1: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to violate the following
parking provisions on village streets and parking lots:
   A.   Parking Near Corner: Whenever a sign shall be present or curbing is so
painted to prohibit parking, no person shall park within fifteen feet (15') of
any corner. (Ord. 538, 7-20-2009)
   B.   Parking Requirements On Certain Streets:
      On Madison Street, parking shall be in the center of the street on the
block between South Street and Wait Street, except there shall be no parking in
the center of Madison Street on the block between South Street and Wait Street
in the area located forty feet (40') on each side of the center of the alley.
      On Monroe Street, during the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to five
o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, there shall be no parking, as
follows:
      On the east side of Monroe Street in the area that begins seventy feet
(70') from the south side of the crosswalk at the corner of Monroe Street and
South Street and ends one hundred thirteen feet (113') from the south side of
the crosswalk at the corner of Monroe Street and South Street to allow the
ingress and egress of semitrailers through the alley.
      On the west side of Monroe Street in the area that begins one hundred one
feet (101') from the south side of the crosswalk at the corner of Monroe Street
and South Street and ends one hundred twenty nine feet (129') from the south
side of the crosswalk at the corner of Monroe Street and South Street to allow
the ingress and egress of semitrailers through the alley.
      On Monroe Street, there shall be no parking at any time between the
intersection of Monroe Street and Wait Street and the intersection of Monroe
Street and Carter Street, with the exception of the parking space for persons
with disabilities located on the west side of Monroe Street between South
Street and Wait Street.
      On South Street, the parking of motor vehicles between Jefferson Street
on the west and Jackson Street on the east and on both the north and the south
sides of South Street shall be parallel with street curb on the right hand side
according to the direction the vehicle is headed with the right wheels not more
than twelve inches (12") from the curb.
(Ord. 538, 7-20-2009; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Time Limit Parking:
      1.   Fifteen Minute Parking: Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer consecutive period of time than
fifteen (15) minutes between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the following streets in the village:
      South Street, south side, between the intersection of South Street and
Monroe Street and the intersection of South Street and Jackson Street.
      2.   One Hour Parking: Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer consecutive period of time than one
hour between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. on the following streets in the village:
      South Street, south side, between the intersection of South Street and
Madison Street and the intersection of South Street and Monroe Street.
(Ord. 538, 7-20-2009)
7-2-2: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Areas Designated: The village board may, by ordinance, designate spaces
both on street and in off street parking facilities owned by the village as
reserved for parking for disabled persons or disabled veterans as defined and
determined by applicable provisions of the Illinois vehicle code. The following
are designated as parking areas for disabled persons and disabled veterans:
      American Bank, east side, located at 101 S. Madison Street.
      Central Park, south side, located at 115 E. Hunt Street.
      Gordy Park, north side, located at 551 Abraham Street.
      Hope Welty Library, west side, located at 100 S. Madison Street.
      Municipal building, east side, located at 103 S. Monroe Street.
      Restaurant located at 221 E. South Street, north side.
      South Street, south side, immediately in front of the United States post
office, which post office is located at 313 East South Street.
(1995 Code § 8.211; amd. Ord. 431, 6-2-1997; Ord. 437, 7-20-1998; 2012 Code)
   B.   Signs Posted: The village board directs that said spaces shall be
designated by the appropriate parking emblem for persons with disabilities.
(Ord. 431, 6-2-1997; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Parking Prohibitions: It is hereby prohibited to park any motor vehicle
which is not bearing registration or decals issued to disabled persons or
disabled veterans pursuant to applicable provisions of the Illinois vehicle
code in any parking space, including private or public off street parking
facilities, which is specifically reserved by the posting of official signs for
motor vehicles bearing such plates or decals in accordance with law or
ordinance. (1995 Code § 8.211; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) in addition to any
costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any vehicle as
authorized by law or ordinance. (1995 Code § 8.211; amd. Ord. 431, 6-2-1997;
2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GOLF CARTS AND UTVs
SECTION:
7-3-1: Policy Statement
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Permit Required
7-3-4: Rules And Regulations
7-3-5: Enforcement
7-3-1: POLICY STATEMENT:
This chapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts and UTVs
are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and roads,
hereinafter "streets", and the Village of Cerro Gordo in no way advocates or
endorses their operation on streets. The Village, by regulating such operation
is merely addressing safety issues. This chapter is not to be relied upon as
determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this chapter. All persons operating golf carts and/or UTVs must
be observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and others,
including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. All
persons who operate or ride golf carts and/or UTVs on streets inside the
Village of Cerro Gordo do so at their own risk and peril. The Village of Cerro
Gordo has no liability under any theory of liability, for permitting golf carts
and UTVs to be operated on Village streets. (Ord. 621-2017, 3-20-2017)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
GOLF CART: A vehicle originally designed for operation on a golf course. A golf
cart shall not be capable of speeds exceeding twenty (20) miles per hour. The
definition of golf cart specifically excludes all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) or
any vehicle that is not a golf cart.
UTV: Any recreational motor vehicle other than an ATV, motorcycle, or
snowmobile, designed for and capable of travel over designated unpaved roads,
traveling on four (4) or more low pressure tires of twenty (20) psi or less,
maximum width less than seventy four inches (74"), maximum weight less than
three thousand (3,000) pounds, or having a wheel base of ninety four inches
(94") or less. UTV does not include golf carts, vehicles specifically designed
to carry a disabled person or implements of husbandry.
VILLAGE STREETS: Any of the streets within the boundaries of the Village of
Cerro Gordo except for State and County roads. (Ord. 621-2017, 3-20-2017)
7-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall operate a motorized golf cart or UTV
without obtaining a permit from the Village of Cerro Gordo Police Department as
provided in this section. Each golf cart and UTV must have a permit for that
individual golf cart or UTV.
   B.   Application For Permit; Proof Of Compliance: Golf cart and UTV owners
must complete the permit application form attached to the ordinance codified
herein. The completed forms will be maintained by the Village Police
Department. The Village Police Department may issue visible proof of compliance
that must be attached to the rear of the golf cart or UTV.
   C.   Permit Fee; Insurance Required: The cost of a permit is twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per golf cart and/or UTV to cover the costs of implementing
and maintaining this chapter. Insurance coverage will be verified as in effect
by the Police Department when issuing or renewing a permit.
   D.   Term Of Permit; Renewals: Permits shall be granted for a period of one
year and may be renewed annually.
   E.   Denial Or Revocation Of Permit: The Village Police Chief and his/her
designee retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any permit sticker
for any golf cart or UTV at any time for any reason that he/she feels is
appropriate to ensure the safety and well being of the citizens of the Village.
(Ord. 621-2017, 3-20-2017)
7-3-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Golf carts and UTVs may only be operated on streets within the Village of Cerro
Gordo in accordance with the following rules and regulations:
   A.   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV in the Village of Cerro
Gordo takes full responsibility for all liability associated with operating the
golf cart and/or UTV.
   B.   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV must be at least sixteen
(16) years of age and possess a valid driver's license to operate a motor
vehicle issued by Illinois or any other state.
   C.   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV must possess proof of
liability insurance.
   D.   Golf carts and UTVs may be driven on streets at any hour.
   E.   Golf carts and UTVs shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted at
all times when operated on Village streets.
   F.   Golf carts and UTVs may not be operated when visibility is impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of five hundred feet (500').
   G.   Golf carts and UTVs may not be operated on sidewalks or Village parks
other than parking areas.
   H.   Golf carts and UTVs may be operated on Village streets which have a
posted speed limit of thirty five (35) miles per hour or less.
   I.   Golf carts and UTVs may not be operated on the following national or
State highways except to cross said highways at intersections in a path ninety
degrees (90°) to said highways: State Highway 105, State Highway 32.
   J.   Golf carts and UTVs must be equipped with brakes, a steering apparatus,
tires, a rearview mirror, front and rear red reflectorized warning devices, a
slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the cart and UTV in conformity with
section 12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, a headlight that emits a white
light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a tail
lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from
the rear, brake lights, and turn signals.
   K.   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV on the streets in the
Village of Cerro Gordo must adhere to all applicable State laws, concerning the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages, and all other illegal drugs, as well
as all other State traffic laws.
   L.   Golf cart and UTV drivers must yield the right-of-way to overtaking
vehicles at all times.
   M.   The maximum occupancy of golf carts or UTVs traveling on Village
streets will be one person per bucket seat or three (3) people per bench seat.
   N.   Children must be properly seated while a golf cart or UTV is in motion
and may not be transported in a negligent manner.
   O.   Golf carts and UTVs are only allowed to park in handicapped parking
spaces if the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicap parking
sticker.
   P.   No modifications may be made to the golf cart or UTV suspension.
   Q.   All golf carts and UTVs operated on the streets must be inspected by
the Chief of Police of the Village of Cerro Gordo or his/her designee and must
have valid permit documentation from the Cerro Gordo Police Department. (Ord.
621-2017, 3-20-2017)
7-3-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements is deemed a petty offense and shall be punished by
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00).
   B.   Repeat offenders may have the privileges granted by this chapter
revoked by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Cerro Gordo upon
recommendation by the Cerro Gordo Police Department and/or the Village
President.
   C.   Upon investigation by and the recommendation of the Village Police
Department, the Village Board may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate
the motorized golf cart and/or UTV on the designated streets.
   D.   The interpretation of the above rules and regulations by the Cerro
Gordo Police Department and/or the Village Board are final.
   E.   The Board of Trustees of the Village of Cerro Gordo reserves the right
to revoke this chapter at any time. (Ord. 621-2017, 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 4
TOY VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Bicycles, Rollerblades, Roller Skates And Scooters
7-4-2: Skateboards
7-4-3: Penalty
7-4-1: BICYCLES, ROLLERBLADES, ROLLER SKATES AND SCOOTERS:
No person shall rollerblade, roller skate, or ride a bicycle or scooter on the
following sidewalks at any time:
   South Street, south side, between Jefferson Street and Jackson Street.
(Ord. 446, 8-2-1999)
7-4-2: SKATEBOARDS:
No person shall operate a skateboard on the following streets and sidewalks:
   A.   Streets:
      Madison Street between South Street and Wait Street.
      Monroe Street between South Street and Wait Street.
      South Street between Jackson Street and Jefferson Street.
      Wait Street between Madison Street and Monroe Street.
   B.   Sidewalks:
      Madison Street, west and east sides, between South Street and Wait
Street.
      Monroe Street, west side, between North Street and Wait Street.
      South Street, south side, between Jackson Street and Jefferson Street.
      Wait Street, north side, between Madison Street and Monroe Street.
(1995 Code § 8.506)
7-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1995 Code § 8.507; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, UNATTENDED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Abandoned Or Unattended Vehicle Prohibited
7-5-3: Notice To Remove
7-5-4: Removal By Towing Service
7-5-5: Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANY STATIONARY OBJECT: Anything other than any "automobile" or "other vehicle"
as defined in this section.
AUTOMOBILE: Any four (4) wheel vehicle which moves of its own power.
OTHER VEHICLE: Any vehicle which moves of its own power other than an
"automobile" as defined in this section. (1995 Code § 8.206)
7-5-2: ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
No person or entity shall abandon or leave unattended any automobile, other
vehicle, or any stationary object on village property or any street or highway
within the village limits. (1995 Code § 8.206; amd. 2012 Code)
7-5-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   If any person or entity shall leave any automobile, other vehicle or
stationary object on any village property or any street within the village
limits for more than thirty (30) days, a five (5) day notice shall be sent by
the village clerk by United States postage, first class mail, to the owner of
said automobile, other vehicle, or stationary object, directing the removal of
same within five (5) days from the mailing of said notice. (1995 Code § 8.206;
amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   In the event that the village clerk does not of his own knowledge know
who is the owner of said automobile, other vehicle, or stationary object, said
notice shall be deemed sufficient if attached to said automobile, other
vehicle, or stationary object. (1995 Code § 8.206)
7-5-4: REMOVAL BY TOWING SERVICE:
   A.   If any person or entity shall leave any automobile, other vehicle, or
stationary object on a highway for twenty four (24) hours or more, its removal
by a towing service may be authorized by a law enforcement officer.
   B.   When an automobile, other vehicle, or stationary object is abandoned,
unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially dismantled and is creating a traffic
hazard because of its position in relation to a highway, or its physical
appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the
highway or private property adjacent to said highway by a towing service may be
authorized by a law enforcement agency. (2012 Code)
7-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person who does not remove said automobile, other vehicle or stationary
object from village property or upon any highways or roads within the village
limits after said thirty (30) days and after said five (5) days' notice shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day after said thirty (30) days and
said five (5) days' notice that said vehicle remains on village property or
upon the roads and highways within the village limits of the village shall be
considered a separate offense. (1995 Code § 8.206; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY; PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Application Of Provisions
8-1-2: Street Improvements
8-1-3: Curb And Gutter
8-1-4: Sidewalks
8-1-5: Stormwater Drainage
8-1-6: Driveway Entrances
8-1-7: Water Lines
8-1-8: Sanitary Sewers
8-1-9: Inspections
8-1-10: Penalty
8-1-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Construction standards and specifications contained in this chapter shall apply
to all public improvements constructed within the village and all approved
subdivisions unless one or more provisions are waived by the village board.
(1995 Code § 5.401)
8-1-2: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
All streets constructed or reconstructed shall meet the standards of subsection
A or B of this section:
   A.   Local residential streets:
      1.   Pavement type: Rigid.
      2.   Subbase: None.
      3.   Base: Two inches (2") of sand or light gravel as required by the
village.
      4.   Pavement: Six inches (6") nonreinforced portland cement concrete
pavement.
      5.   Required pavement width: Twenty eight feet (28').
   B.   Flexible pavement:
      1.   Subbase: None.
      2.   Base: Five inches (5") BAM (MS 1500).
      3.   Pavement: Two inches (2") class I (MS 1700).
      4.   Required pavement width: Twenty eight feet (28').
   C.   Each street shall be graded, drained, constructed and surfaced in
accordance with subsections A and B of this section. (1995 Code § 5.402)
8-1-3: CURB AND GUTTER:
   A.   Concrete curbing or combined concrete curb and gutter shall be
constructed on each side of all street pavement except where waived by the
village board.
   B.   Curbing shall consist of poured cement concrete and may be either plain
concrete curb, six inches (6") in thickness and eighteen inches (18") in depth,
or combination curb and gutter consisting of a gutter flag not less than
fifteen inches (15") in overall width and seven inches (7") in thickness with a
straight or roll type curb superimposed thereon, having an average thickness of
six inches (6"). Minimum height of the curb shall not be less than three and
one-half inches (31/2") above the gutter grade. (1995 Code § 5.403)
8-1-4: SIDEWALKS:
Portland poured concrete sidewalks shall be installed in all new subdivisions
and around parks, schools and shopping areas. Sidewalks shall be at least four
feet (4') wide. All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete four inches (4")
thick and five and one-half inches (51/2") in thickness where sidewalk crosses
driveways. A sand or gravel base at least two inches (2") thick may be
required. (1995 Code § 5.404)
8-1-5: STORMWATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Discharge of stormwater will be the basis for determining the method of
designing for stormwater disposal.
   B.   Existing or proposed building or roof and footing drains shall not be
connected to the sanitary sewer system.
   C.   Surface drainage may be disposed of in one of the following ways:
      1.   Across a paved surface, such as driveway, into an existing street.
      2.   Into an on site storm sewer system designed to discharge into the
existing storm sewer system.
   D.   Storm sewer structures are as follows:
      1.   All culverts will be at least twelve inches (12") in diameter.
      2.   Structures shall have the capacity to carry a maximum stormwater
flow which may occur in a five (5) year period.
      3.   Ditches shall be graded, seeded or sodded.
      4.   All materials used for storm sewers must be approved by the director
of public works. (1995 Code § 5.405)
8-1-6: DRIVEWAY ENTRANCES:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   Opening width shall be twelve feet (12') with a maximum of twenty
four feet (24').
      2.   Return radii shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Driveway entrances must be constructed of either six inches (6")
aggregate base coarse surface with two inches (2") of class I asphalt or four
inches (4") poured concrete pavement.
      4.   Paved entrance only is required where curb and guttering exists or
will be installed. (1995 Code § 5.406)
   B.   Commercial And Industrial:
      1.   Driveway shall be constructed of concrete.
      2.   Minimum width shall be twelve feet (12') for one-way operations or
twenty four feet (24') for two-way operations with a maximum width of thirty
five feet (35').
      3.   The lot will be drained in accordance with standards for storm
drainage, section
8-1-5 of this chapter. (1995 Code § 5.407)
8-1-7: WATER LINES:
   A.   All new subdivisions shall be served by the village water system except
subdivisions located more than one-half (1/2) mile from the village limits and
fire hydrants with auxiliary valves.
   B.   Pipe for water mains shall be in accordance with the latest revision to
the "Standard Specifications For Watermain Construction For The City Of
Decatur, Illinois", which is hereby adopted by reference. All polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) pipe shall conform to AWWA-C-900, pressure class 150, standard
dimension ration (SDR) 18, laying condition type I. All fittings, joints and
couplings shall meet AWWA specifications for appropriate type pipe. All ductile
iron pipe shall be designed in accordance with ANSI A21.50 and have a standard
pipe coating outside and lined with thin cement lining and seal coated inside
in accordance with ANSI A.21.4 - latest revision (AWWA C-104 - latest
revision). A blue no. 12 THHN tracer wire shall be laid with all PVC pipe. The
main tracer shall be continuous throughout.
   C.   All water mains shall be adequately valved to the satisfaction of the
director of public works. Gate valves shall be AWWA specifications, three
hundred (300) pound hydrostatic test, iron body, bronze mounted, double disc
gate valves, right hand (open clockwise) approved by director of public works.
(1995 Code § 5.409)
8-1-8: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Required: Sanitary sewers shall be installed in all new subdivisions
when the village sewer system is within a reasonable distance (to be determined
by village board). (1995 Code § 5.410)
   B.   Building Sewers: The building sewer shall be ABS (solid wall), SDR
23.5, ASTM specification D2751 with solvent cement joints conforming to ASTM
D2235 or PVC (solid wall), SDR 35, ASTM specification D3034 with solvent cement
joints conforming to ASTM D2564, with a minimum size of four inches (4") in
diameter. (1995 Code § 5.410; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Lateral Sewers: Sanitary sewer pipe eight inches (8") to fifteen inches
(15") in diameter shall be acrylonitrile- butadiene-styrene (ABS) or polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) pipe. Both will be of composite construction of thermoplastic
wall truss manufacture with an ASTM specification D2680. Sewer pipe over
fifteen inches (15") in diameter shall be of material approved by the village
engineer or director of public works. Alternate materials shall conform to
specifications approved by the village board, and copies of the same shall be
on file with the village clerk. Four inch (4") or six inch (6") house service
stubs shall be installed as required to provide sewer service to every lot in
the subdivision wherever house sewers cannot subsequently be installed without
tunneling under or crossing the street pavement. House services shall extend to
the street or lot line and shall have a depth of not less than seven feet (7')
at the terminus, wherever possible. Lateral sewers, wherever possible, shall
have a minimum depth of eight feet (8') below the established street grade. All
sewers should be backfilled with sand or other materials specifically approved
by the village engineer. (1995 Code § 5.410)
8-1-9: INSPECTIONS:
All work done by a private contractor shall be subject to inspection by the
director of public works or a civil engineer retained by the village board.
(1995 Code § 5.411)
8-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter may be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 5.412; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Supervision And Enforcement
8-2-2: Permit To Construct; Compliance Required
8-2-3: Repairs And Defects
8-2-4: Obstructions And Encroachments
8-2-5: View At Intersections
8-2-6: Safety Precautions
8-2-7: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
8-2-8: Snow, Dirt And Weeds On Sidewalks
8-2-9: Damaging Sidewalks
8-2-10: Utility Poles And Wires
8-2-11: Moving Buildings
8-2-12: Planting Vegetation On Public Property
8-2-13: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-2-14: Penalty
8-2-1: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the director of public works who shall have supervision over all
work thereon and the cleaning thereof, and shall be charged with the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except
traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances. (1995
Code § 5.101)
8-2-2: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way without having first secured permission
from the village board and complying with requirements of chapter 1 of this
title. (1995 Code § 5.102)
8-2-3: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavement shall be in
good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the director of public works. (1995
Code § 5.103)
   B.   Defects: It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee
becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any
obstruction thereof, to report the same to the director of public works as soon
as possible. (1995 Code § 5.104)
8-2-4: OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Obstructions: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way, except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by
the director of public works. (1995 Code § 5.105)
   B.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon or extends onto any public street, sidewalk,
or property with the exception of mailboxes. Prior approval must be obtained
from the director of public works and the streets and alleys committee before
any mailbox can be erected within the village. A petition form shall be
available from the village clerk. (Ord. 465, 9-17-2001)
8-2-5: VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to construct, or maintain, or permit to remain any fence
or other structure, or any bushes or other plants, on a corner lot, within
twenty feet (20') of the street line, which obstructs the view, at a height of
more than three feet (3') above the level of the adjacent street pavement,
except as otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance and title 10, chapter 5 of
this code. (1995 Code § 5.118)
8-2-6: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk or other public place or making an excavation in the same
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle
by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at
nighttime.
   B.   Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury,
and any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or
excavation in any such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the
same remains open by proper barricades and lights.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon,
or injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while the same is guarded by
a warning sign or barricade, or to disturb or interfere with any lawfully
placed barricades or lights. (1995 Code § 5.106)
8-2-7: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass, or other articles which may cause injury to any person, animal or
property. (1995 Code § 5.112)
   B.   Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other article which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1995 Code §
5.113)
8-2-8: SNOW, DIRT AND WEEDS ON SIDEWALKS:
No person or entity shall suffer or permit the sidewalk in front of or
adjoining the premises owned or occupied by him and under his control to be
encumbered or obstructed by snow, dirt, weeds, or other obstruction. (1995 Code
§ 5.117)
8-2-9: DAMAGING SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Prohibited: No property owner or his agent shall authorize or
intentionally cause any village sidewalk in front of or adjoining the premises
owned or occupied by him and under his control to be damaged, torn out, or
removed without prior authorization by the director of public works or his
authorized designee.
   B.   Repair And Replacement Required: Any village sidewalk damages caused or
authorized by the property owner and/or his agent shall be repaired or replaced
by the property owner within fifteen (15) days of said damage, tearing out, or
removal, according to village specifications.
   C.   Repair Or Replacement By Village; Costs To Owner: In addition to any
fine which may be levied, in the event the property owner fails or refuses to
repair or replace said village sidewalk within fifteen (15) days to village
specifications, the village shall have the right to replace or repair said
village sidewalk to the same condition as prior to said damage, tearing out, or
removal, and shall have the right to bring an action against the property owner
for the reasonable cost of repairing or replacing said village sidewalk, and
for any attorney fees and costs incurred in bringing the action. (Ord. 565-
2012, 3-19-2012)
8-2-10: UTILITY POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without first
having secured permission from the director of public works. (1995 Code §
5.110)
8-2-11: MOVING BUILDINGS:
No person shall remove, or cause to be removed, or aid in removing any building
through or across any street or alley without a written permit from the village
president; nor shall, in removing such building, unnecessarily encumber or
obstruct any street or alley, nor for a longer time than may be necessary in
the prompt and diligent removal of such building. (1995 Code § 5.115)
8-2-12: PLANTING VEGETATION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Permit Required: No trees, bushes, shrubs or any plants whatsoever,
except grass and flowers, shall be planted on any boulevard or property
belonging to the village without the permission of the village board. The
permission required herein must be given by a majority of trustees present at
any regular or special meeting of the village board at which a quorum is
present. (1995 Code § 5.120)
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1995 Code § 5.120; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   In addition to any fine which may be levied, the person doing said
planting shall remove said plants and return the ground to the same condition
as prior to said planting. In the event of refusal to remove, the village shall
have the right to remove said planting and return the ground to the same
condition as prior to said planting and shall have the right to bring action
against the person doing said planting for the reasonable cost of removing said
planting and returning the ground to said condition and for any attorney fees
and costs incurred in bringing the action. (1995 Code § 5.120)
8-2-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Private Use: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to use any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of
goods or merchandise for sale; or to write or mark any signs or advertisements
on any such pavement. (1995 Code § 5.107)
   B.   Burning Leaves And Rubbish: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other substances upon any
of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the village. (1995 Code § 5.114)
   C.   Obstructing Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any
public street or alley. (1995 Code § 5.109)
   D.   Gas Pumps: It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump
or tank in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1995 Code § 5.111)
   E.   Changing Markers: It shall be unlawful to purposely change or remove
any stake, post or stone placed or set to designate the corner or line of any
lot or land, street or alley, or to show the grade of any street, alley, or
sidewalk. (1995 Code § 5.116)
8-2-14: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1995
Code § 5.119; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Permit And Compliance Required; Exemptions
8-3-2: Application For Permit
8-3-3: Issuance Of Permit; Fee
8-3-4: Manner Of Excavating
8-3-5: Safety Devices
8-3-6: Temporary Sidewalks
8-3-7: Time Limits
8-3-8: Restoration Of Excavated Area
8-3-9: Inspections And Enforcement
8-3-10: Penalty
8-3-1: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel
under or to make an excavation in any street, alley or other public place in
the village without having obtained a permit as is herein required, or without
complying with the provisions of this chapter, or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any such permit. (1995 Code § 5.201)
   B.   The provisions of this chapter relative to securing permits shall not
apply to officers or employees of the village engaged in doing work for the
village, nor to persons or corporations doing work for the village under
contract. (1995 Code § 5.210)
8-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for such permits shall be made to the director of public works and
shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size
thereof, the purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing the
actual excavating work, and the name of the person, firm or corporation for
whom or which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done. (1995 Code § 5.202)
8-3-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; FEE:
The permit shall be issued by director of public works after payment of a fifty
dollar ($50.00) fee. (1995 Code § 5.203; amd. 2012 Code)
8-3-4: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground, and in
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   B.   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnel, and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed.
   C.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof. (1995 Code § 5.205)
8-3-5: SAFETY DEVICES:
Any person, firm or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street or alley shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights
to protect persons and property from injury. (1995 Code § 5.204)
8-3-6: TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. (1995 Code § 5.206)
8-3-7: TIME LIMITS:
Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is estimated
will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration of the
surface of the ground, or until the refill is made ready for the pavement to be
put on by the village if the village restores such surface pavement. It shall
be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless permission for
an extension of time is granted by the director of public works. (1995 Code §
5.207)
8-3-8: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED AREA:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley or public place in the village shall restore the
surface thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement. All refills
shall be properly tamped down.
   B.   Any opening in any portion of a street shall be repaired and the
surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the ordinances and subject
to the supervision of the director of public works. (1995 Code § 5.208)
8-3-9: INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
The director of public works shall, from time to time, inspect all excavations
and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley or other public
place in the village to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. Notice shall be given to him at least ten (10) hours before the work
of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences. (1995 Code § 5.209)
8-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1995
Code § 5.211; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OVERHANGING SIGNS AND AWNINGS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Permit Required; Fee; Issuance
8-4-2: Construction Requirements
8-4-3: Height Above Public Ways
8-4-4: Inspections
8-4-5: Penalty
8-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; ISSUANCE:
No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard or
rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or other public way in the
village without first having obtained a permit and by the payment of a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) fee. Permits for signs, canopies or signboards shall be
issued by the building inspector who shall designate the location of the
proposed structure. (1995 Code § 5.301; amd. 2012 Code)
8-4-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will
be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from
other cause. (1995 Code § 5.302)
8-4-3: HEIGHT ABOVE PUBLIC WAYS:
The lowest part of any canopy, sign or any nonrigid awning, or any support
thereof, which extends over any public way shall be at least eight feet (8')
above the level of the walk or public way over which it extends, but no such
sign shall be maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of
its support or of the sign is less than fifteen feet (15') above the level of
such public way. (1995 Code § 5.303)
8-4-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected every sign, canopy or awning which extends over any sidewalk, street,
alley or other public way. If any such sign or canopy is found to be insecurely
fastened or in otherwise dangerous condition, he shall report this fact to the
owner of the sign or to the owner or occupant of the premises on which it is
fastened. If the sign or canopy is not made secure or restored to a safe
condition with ten (10) days after such notice, it may be torn down on order of
the village police. (1995 Code § 5.304)
8-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision or failing to comply
with any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation or failure to comply
occurs or continues. (1995 Code § 5.305; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DRAINAGE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Permit Required
8-5-2: Application For Permit
8-5-3: Approval Or Denial Of Permit
8-5-4: Responsibility For Costs; Construction Requirements
8-5-5: Railroad Drainage
8-5-6: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-5-7: Penalty
8-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall construct or cause or permit or procure to
be constructed any drain of any sort, kind or character, leading into or
connecting with any drain in the streets and alleys of the village, or any
drain constructed in whole or in part by the village, without first obtaining
permission so to do from the village board in the manner provided in this
chapter. (1995 Code § 5.502)
8-5-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to tap or connect with any such drain
shall first make application in writing to the village board, specifying
therein fully and in detail the lot, tract or parcel of ground proposed to be
drained, the place in the village drain where connection is desired, the kind
of drain proposed to be installed, stating materials, size, depth and grade
thereof, the purpose of same, the direction and distance same is to run and
what is to be drained by same. (1995 Code § 5.503)
8-5-3: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   If it appears to the village board that the granting of any such
application will not in any way or manner injuriously affect the drain of the
village, and that no unhealthful or unsanitary drainage will thereby be
discharged into the village drain, then the village board may grant permission
to such applicant to make the connection desired, upon such terms and
conditions as the village board may deem just and equitable in each particular
case.
   B.   No permit shall be granted by the village board for the tapping of any
village drain or connection therewith whereby the drainage from any water
closet, privy, urinal, sink, cesspool, bathtub, lavatory, exhausts, or waste
drains from any engine or machinery shall be directly discharged into said
village drain. (1995 Code § 5.504)
8-5-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS; CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All drains constructed in the streets and alleys of the village or through
private property that shall be paid for in whole or in part by the village
shall be constructed of materials of first quality, and of proper size, laid at
a depth and grade and in a good and workmanlike manner, to afford a practical
and adequate drainage for the district or area intended to be drained thereby.
The plans and specifications for any such drain shall be presented to and
approved by the village board. Construction and materials used shall conform to
requirements of chapter 1 of this title. (1995 Code § 5.501)
8-5-5: RAILROAD DRAINAGE:
   A.   Every railroad company operating a railroad through the village shall
make, open, and repair ditches, drains, sewers, and culverts along and under
its tracks so that water cannot stand on its property and so that the natural
drainage of adjacent property is not impeded. (1995 Code § 5.508)
   B.   Any railroad company which violates, fails, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of subsection A of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation, failure, neglect or refusal is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1995 Code § 5.509;
amd. 2012 Code)
8-5-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Connections: The drainage into any drain in the streets or
alleys of the village or into any drain owned in whole or in part by the
village of any water closet, privy, urinal, sink, cesspool, bathtub, lavatory
or exhausts or waste drains from any engine or machinery is hereby declared
unhealthful and unsanitary and is absolutely prohibited. (1995 Code § 5.505)
   B.   Obstructing Drains: Any person, firm or corporation who shall break,
fill up or in any manner injure or obstruct any drain of the village shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and shall likewise be liable for all
damages to any such drain occasioned by such unlawful act. (1995 Code § 5.507;
amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Drainage From Buildings: No person or entity shall suffer or permit the
water falling or draining from any building owned by him or under his control
to spread over the sidewalk in front thereof. (1995 Code § 5.510)
8-5-7: PENALTY:
If any person, firm or corporation shall tap or connect with any village drain
without first obtaining permission so to do according to the provisions of this
chapter, such act shall be a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and shall likewise be liable for all
damages to any village drain which may arise from such unauthorized tapping or
connection. (1995 Code § 5.506; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Park Hours And Operation Of Parks
8-6-2: Park Activities
8-6-3: Prohibited Activities
8-6-4: Enforcement
8-6-5: Penalties
8-6-1: PARK HOURS AND OPERATION OF PARKS:
   A.   Born Park: Born Park, bordered by Carter Street on the north, Hunt
Street on the south, and Madison Street on the east, shall be open to the
public at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. every day and shall close each evening at
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   B.   Gordy Park: Gordy Park, located at the west end of Abraham Street,
shall be open to the public at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. every day and shall
close each evening at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. or thirty (30) minutes after the
completion of the last game, whichever is later.
   C.   Veterans' Park: Veterans' Park, with a park entrance at the east
intersection of Madison Street and Frantz Street, shall be open to the public
at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. every day and shall close each evening at sunset.
   D.   Closed Areas: Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to
the public by the director of public works at any time and for any interval of
time, either entirely or merely to certain uses as the director of public works
shall find reasonably necessary. No person in a park shall enter or remain in
an area posted as "Closed To The Public", nor shall any person use or abet the
use of any area in violation of posted notices. (Ord. 567-2012, 5-21-2012)
8-6-2: PARK ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Areas And Use:
      1.   Location: No person in a park shall picnic or lunch in a place other
than those designated for that purpose. The director of public works shall have
the authority to regulate the activities in such areas when necessary to
prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and
convenience of all.
      2.   Cleanup: No person shall leave an area of a park unless and until
all trash including, but not limited to, boxes, paper, cans, bottles, garbage
and other refuse, is placed in the disposal receptacles available, but if such
receptacles are not available, then refuse and trash shall be carried away from
the park area by the picnicker to be properly disposed of elsewhere. (Ord. 567-
2012, 5-21-2012)
8-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Swimming And Bathing: No person in a park shall swim, bathe, wade or
enter in any water or waterways in or adjacent to any park.
   B.   Boating: No person in a park shall bring into or operate any boat, raft
or any other watercraft, whether motor powered or not, upon any waters.
   C.   Fishing: No person shall engage in commercial fishing or the buying or
selling of fish caught in any park waters.
   D.   Fires: No person in a park shall build or attempt to build a fire. No
person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning
cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material within any
park area or on any highway, road, or street abutting or continuous thereto.
   E.   Water Toys: No person shall place in or upon any water or waterways in
or adjacent to any park any toys, rafts, boats, or the like, whether motor
powered or not.
   F.   Going Onto Ice, Skating Areas: No person in a park shall go onto the
ice on any of the waters at any time.
   G.   Snow Activities: No person shall sled, ride or ski within Veterans'
Park.
   H.   Defacing Buildings, Property: No person in a park shall:
      1.   Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any building, bridge, tables, benches, railings, paving or paving
material, water lines or other public utilities or part or appurtenances
thereof, signs, notices or placards whether temporary or permanent, monuments,
stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or other structures or equipment,
facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, whether real or
personal;
      2.   Dig or remove, whether submerged or not, any sand, soil, rock,
stones, trees, shrubs, or plants, downed timber or other wood or materials, or
make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or other means or agency;
      3.   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public
service utility into, upon or across such lands except on permit to do so by
the director of public works.
   I.   Injury To Trees And Plants: No person in a park shall:
      1.   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant, or
injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant;
      2.   Attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant;
      3.   Dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure
or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area;
      4.   Climb any tree or light pole, or climb or sit upon monuments, bases,
railing, fences, or upon any other property not designated or customarily used
for such purposes;
      5.   Tie or hitch any animal to any tree or plant.
   J.   Alcoholic Liquor: No person in a park shall drink, sell, possess, make
a gift or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor or controlled substance within
the park.
   K.   Under The Influence: No person under the influence of alcoholic liquor
or controlled substance shall enter or remain within the park, nor shall any
person within the park use, administer, receive, offer for sale, possess or
make available to himself or any other person or animal any alcoholic liquor or
controlled substance.
   L.   Loitering And Boisterousness:
      1.   No person in a park shall sleep on seats, or benches or engage in
loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language, or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to a breach of the public
peace.
      2.   No person shall disturb any picnic or other park activity or intrude
himself or herself upon it without the consent of those participating in it.
(Ord. 567-2012, 5-21-2012)
8-6-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The director of public works and police officers shall, in connection
with their duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   The director of public works or any police officer shall have the
authority to eject from the park or part thereof any person acting in violation
of this chapter. Any person so ejected shall not enter the park or part thereof
from which he was ejected for a period of twenty four (24) hours.
   C.   Any police officer shall have the authority to seize and confiscate any
property, thing or device in the park possessed or used, in violation of this
chapter or any state or federal statute, rule or regulation. (Ord. 567-2012, 5-
21-2012)
8-6-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction be subject to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 567-2012, 5-21-2012)
CHAPTER 7
FIBER OPTIC FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-7-1: Definitions
8-7-2: Application
8-7-3: Permit
8-7-4: Interference
8-7-5: Violations
8-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMPANY: Shall mean, for purposes of this chapter, any corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, limited partnership, sole
proprietorship, or any other business organization, that may locate, install or
maintain fiber optic cable facilities within the Village rights-of-way.
FIBER OPTIC FACILITIES: Means underground fiber optic conduit, ducts, cable
lines, wires, or related facilities.
RIGHT-OF-WAY AGREEMENT: Shall mean a fully executed and notarized
authorization, license, contract, permit or easement issued or made pursuant to
this chapter by and between the Village and company in form and substance
agreeable to the Village, wherein the Village grants certain non-exclusive
revocable rights to use and occupy its streets and rights-of-way and wherein
company accepts and agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 624-2017, 5-15-2017)
8-7-2: APPLICATION:
Any company seeking to install and/or maintain fiber optic facilities and
related equipment in the Village of Cerro Gordo rights-of-way shall request an
application from the Village President for a Right-Of-Way Agreement at least
thirty (30) days prior to installation of said fiber optic cable and related
equipment. Said request shall include plans and specifications for the
installation in the Village, which shall be subject to the approval of the
Village. The cable shall be installed underground at a depth and in such
reasonable manner as approved by the Village and its engineers. (Ord. 624-2017,
5-15-2017; amd. Ord. 668-2021, 4-19-2021)
8-7-3: PERMIT:
A permit for work in any right-of-way shall be obtained before any work is
commenced and the conditions of the permit shall be upheld. The Village permit
fee shall be waived. The company shall provide any necessary or required
traffic control at its own expense. (Ord. 624-2017, 5-15-2017)
8-7-4: INTERFERENCE:
In all events, the cable shall be so located and maintained as to have minimum
interference with the proper use of highways and to cause minimum interference
with the rights or the reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any
of said highways or other public utilities utilizing the right-of-way. No later
than fourteen (14) days after constructing, placing, replacing, repairing or
removing of any of the cable is completed, all portions of the right-of-way
which have been excavated or otherwise injured or obstructed thereby shall be
placed in as good of condition as before commencement of the act at the
company's sole cost and expense. Should the company's use of the right-of-way
conflict or interfere with the installation or improvements of public utilities
in the future, the company, at its sole cost and expense, shall move its cable
to alleviate said conflict or interference. The company shall have ninety (90)
days from written notification of the conflict or interference to move its
cable and alleviate the conflict. (Ord. 624-2017, 5-15-2017)
8-7-5: VIOLATIONS:
Each day that a company has fiber optic facilities located in a Village right-
of-way in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute an
additional offense. In addition to any legal or equitable remedies available to
the Village of Cerro Gordo, any person, firm, corporation, or company who shall
violate any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 624-2017, 5-15-2017)
CHAPTER 8
SMALL CELL ANTENNA/TOWER RIGHT-OF-WAY SITING
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: Standards And Regulations
8-8-3: Permits And Application Fees And Procedures
8-8-4: Conflict Of Laws
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms will have the following
meanings:
ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within the
public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a utility
pole or a Village-owned infrastructure.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications
services.
APPLICANT: Any person or entity submitting an application to install personal
wireless telecommunication facilities or structures to support the facilities
within a public right-of- way.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A type of personal wireless telecommunication
facility consisting of a network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected
to a common source via a transport medium that provides wireless service within
a geographic area. Generally serves multiple carriers.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes
or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA: An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An antenna, equipment, and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or other information
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.
SMALL CELL FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity within the Village in
a limited defined area. Generally single-service provider installation.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an alternative
antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
Except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, the requirements for a tower
and associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this chapter.
UTILITY POLE: An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables,
telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are
used to provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.
VARIANCE OR VARIATION: A grant of relief by the Board of Trustees.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure in public right-of- way within the
boundaries of the Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic
signals, towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the
Village.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices. (Ord. 640-2018, 7-16-2018)
8-8-2: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
Personal wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed
in right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village as attachments to
existing utility poles, alternative antenna structures, or Village-owned
infrastructure subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Number Limitation And Co-Location: The Board of Trustees may regulate
the number of personal wireless telecommunications facilities allowed on each
utility pole or unit of Village-owned infrastructure. No more than two (2)
personal wireless telecommunications facilities will be permitted on utility
poles or alternative antenna structures of ninety feet (90') or less. No more
than three (3) personal wireless telecommunications facilities will be
permitted on utility poles or alternative antenna structures in excess of
ninety feet (90') and less than one hundred twenty feet (120'). This chapter
does not preclude or prohibit co-location of personal wireless
telecommunication facilities on towers or monopoles that meet the requirements
as set forth elsewhere in this section or as required by Federal law.
   B.   Separation And Clearance Requirements: Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a utility pole, alternative
antenna structure, monopole, or Village-owned infrastructure only where such
pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a distance equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the height of such facility to any residential
building and no closer than three hundred feet (300') from any other personal
wireless telecommunication facility. A separation or lesser clearance may be
allowed by the Board of Trustees as an administrative variance to this chapter
when the applicant establishes that the lesser separation or clearance is
necessary to close a significant coverage or capacity gap in the applicant's
services or to otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the
proposed antenna or facility is the least intrusive means to do so within the
right-of-way.
   C.   Village-Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities can only be mounted to Village-owned infrastructure including, but
not limited to, streetlights, traffic signal, towers or buildings, if
authorized by a license or other agreement between the owner and the Village.
   D.   New Towers: No new monopole or other tower to support personal wireless
telecommunication facilities in excess of sixty feet (60') is permitted to be
installed on right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village unless the
Board of Trustees finds, based on clear and convincing evidence provided by the
applicant, that locating the personal wireless telecommunications facilities on
the right-of-way is necessary to close a significant coverage or capacity gap
in the applicant's services or to otherwise provide adequate services to
customers, and the proposed new monopole or other tower within the right-of-way
is the least intrusive means to do so.
   E.   Attachment Limitations: No personal wireless telecommunication antenna
or facility within the right-of-way will be attached to a utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower, or Village- owned infrastructure unless
all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Surface Area Of Antenna: The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or dish-shaped antennas,
cannot have a surface area of more than seven (7) cubic feet in volume.
      2.   Size Of Above-Ground Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility:
The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and appurtenances
comprising a personal wireless telecommunication facility, exclusive of the
antenna itself, cannot exceed thirty two (32) cubic feet.
      3.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
personal wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible, locate
the base of the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight
feet (8') above grade.
      4.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted At
Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication
facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or appurtenances are to
be installed at grade, screening must be installed to minimize the visibility
of the facility. Screening must be installed at least three feet (3') from the
equipment installed at-grade and eight feet (8') from a roadway.
      5.   Height: The top of the highest point of the antenna cannot extend
more than seven feet (7') above the highest point of the utility pole,
alternative antenna support structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure.
If necessary, the replacement or new utility pole, alternative support
structure or Village-owned infrastructure located within the public right-of-
way may be no more than ten feet to seventy feet (10' - 70') higher than
existing poles adjacent to the replacement or new pole or structure, or no more
than ninety feet (90') in height overall, whichever is less.
      6.   Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted and use non- reflective materials which blend with the materials and
colors of the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be covered with
an appropriate cover.
      7.   Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna may include a radome, cap or other antenna panel covering or shield, to
the extent such covering would not result in a larger or more noticeable
facility and, if proposed, such covering must be of a color that blends with
the color of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted.
      8.   Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the
remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the Electrical
Code currently in effect. No wiring and cabling serving the facility will be
allowed to interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by a cable television
or video service operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
      9.   Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility must be
grounded in accordance with the requirements of the Electrical Code currently
in effect in the Village.
      10.   Guy Wires: No guy or other support wires will be used in connection
with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is to
be attached to an existing utility pole, alternative antenna support structure,
tower or Village- owned infrastructure that incorporated guy wires prior to the
date that an applicant has applied for a permit.
      11.   Pole Extensions: Extensions to utility poles, alternative support
structures, towers and Village-owned infrastructure utilized for the purpose of
connecting a personal wireless telecommunications antenna and its related
personal wireless telecommunications equipment must have a degree of strength
capable of supporting the antenna and any related appurtenances and cabling and
capable of withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance with the
applicable structural integrity standards as set forth in subsection E12 of
this section. An extension must be securely bound to the utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure in
accordance with applicable engineering standards for the design and attachment
of such extensions.
      12.   Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment must
be designed to withstand a wind force and ice loads in accordance with
applicable standards established in chapter 25 of the National Electric Safety
Code for Utility Poles, rule 250-B and 250-C standards governing wind, ice, and
loading forces on utility poles, in the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) in TIA/EIA section 222-G established by the Telecommunications Industry
Association (TIA) and the Electronics Industry Association (EIA) for steel
wireless support structures and the applicable industry standard for other
existing structures. For any facility attached to Village-owned infrastructure
or, in the discretion of the Village, for a utility pole, tower, or alternative
antenna structure, the operator of the facility must provide the Village with a
structural evaluation of each specific location containing a recommendation
that the proposed installation passes the standards described above. The
evaluation must be prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in
the State of Illinois.
   F.   Signage: Other than signs required by Federal law or regulations or
identification and location markings, installation of signs on a personal
wireless telecommunication facility is prohibited.
   G.   Screening: If screening is required under subsection E4 of this
section, it must be natural landscaping material or a fence subject to the
approval of the Village and must comply with all regulations of the Village.
Appropriate landscaping must be located and maintained and must provide the
maximum achievable screening, as determined by the Village, from view of
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than nine feet (9') in
height. Landscape screening when permitted in the right-of-way must be provided
with a clearance of three feet (3') in all directions from the facility. The
color of housing for ground-mounted equipment must blend with the surroundings.
For a covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable screening must be
provided between such facility and the view from adjoining properties and
public or private streets. In lieu of the operator installing the screening,
the Village, at its sole discretion, may accept a fee from the operator of the
facility for the acquisition, installation, or maintenance of landscaping
material by the Village.
   H.   Permission To Use Utility Pole Or Alterative Antenna Structure: The
operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility must submit to the
Village written copies of the approval from the owner of a utility pole,
monopole, or an alternative antenna structure, to mount the personal wireless
telecommunication facility on that specific pole, tower, or structure, prior to
issuance of the Village permit.
   I.   Licenses And Permits: The operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility must verify to the Village that it has received all
concurrent licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments with
jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and operation of said
facility have been obtained and will be maintained within the corporate limits
of the Village.
   J.   Variance Requirements: Each location of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility within a right-of-way must meet all of the
requirements of this chapter, unless a variance has been obtained in accordance
with title 11, chapter 3, article A of this Code and/or chapter 2 of this
title.
   K.   Abandonment And Removal: Any personal wireless telecommunication
facility located within the corporate limits of the Village that is not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, shall be considered
abandoned and the owner of the facility must remove same within ninety (90)
days of receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return-
receipt-requested, by the Village to such owner at the last known address of
such owner. In the case of personal wireless telecommunication facilities
attached to Village owned infrastructure, if such facility is not removed
within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the
removal of such facility through the terms of the applicable license agreement
or through whatever actions are provided by law for removal and cost recovery.
(Ord. 640-2018, 7-16-2018)
8-8-3: PERMITS AND APPLICATION FEES AND PROCEDURES:
Permits for placement of personal wireless telecommunication facilities in
right-of-way within the Village are required. Except as otherwise provided for
by this chapter, the procedures for the application for, approval of, and
revocation of such a permit must be in compliance with Village permit
application requirements in chapter 2 of this title. Any applications must
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Permit and
applications fees for an application to collocate a single small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be six
hundred fifty dollars ($650.00). However, permit and application fees for each
small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate
more than one small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless
support structures shall be three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) per small
wireless facility. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, or Federal, State or local law, all applications for permits
pursuant to this section must be accompanied by a fee in the amount of no less
than six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00). The application fee will reimburse
the Village for regulatory and administrative costs with respect to the work
being performed. (Ord. 640-2018, 7-16-2018)
8-8-4: CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter regarding the
siting and installation of personal wireless telecommunication facilities are
more restrictive than comparable conditions imposed elsewhere in any other
local law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, the regulations of this
chapter will govern. (Ord. 640-2018, 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 9
TREES ON VILLAGE PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-9-1: Policy Established
8-9-2: Planting Locations
8-9-3: Kinds Of Trees
8-9-4: Quality Of Trees
8-9-5: Planting Procedures
8-9-6: Early Maintenance
8-9-7: General Maintenance
8-9-8: Tree Protection
8-9-9: Enforcement
8-9-1: POLICY ESTABLISHED:
   A.   These standards are to be considered as the standards for the
Department of Public Works. (Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   B.   These standards apply to the planting of trees by the Department of
Public Works, individuals, businesses, or other organizations on Village
property, right-of-ways or boulevards owned and maintained by the Village.
(Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
   C.   Exceptions to these standards can only be made with the advance
approval of the Board of Trustees. Anyone seeking an exception must seek a
hearing before the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   D.   For purposes of this chapter, the Village shall be responsible for
compliance with the provisions set forth herein where the tree was planted by
the Village or its designee. Where a tree is planted by a property owner, then
the property owner and any successor owner or interest-holder shall be
responsible for compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
8-9-2: PLANTING LOCATIONS:
   A.   Species and cultivars that exceed a trunk diameter of fifteen inches
(15") at breast height within forty (40) years are not to be planted where the
boulevard is less than five feet (5') wide.
   B.   Trees must be planted at least ten feet (10') from driveways and
alleys, ten feet (10') from fire hydrants, ten feet (10') from utility poles,
thirty five feet (35') from intersections, thirty five feet (35') from traffic
signals, and five feet (5') from a property line.
   C.   Trees planted under utility lines must be of species and cultivars
whose height at maturity will not interfere with the lines.
   D.   Trees planted along existing Village streets are to be spaced at thirty
feet (30') to forty feet (40') intervals for medium to large tree species and
twenty feet (20') to thirty five feet (35') for small tree species.
   E.   There should be adequate space allowed for a sidewalk when trees are
planted along unpaved streets or along streets without curbing.
   F.   When sufficient space is not available for a public right-of- way as a
result of street widening or buried utilities, trees may be planted on private
property not more than ten feet (10') from the public right-of-way if the
property owner gives permission by signing a memorandum of understanding with
the Village. This chapter provides that it is the responsibility of the
property owner to provide for all maintenance, including pruning, watering, and
removal, during the existence of such trees. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
   G.   Trees may be planted by the Village along publicly-owned sidewalks that
go through subdivisions, not following streets, when the Department of Public
Works deems the planting beneficial to the community as a whole. The trees may
be planted either on public right-of-ways or on private property subject to the
provisions of subsection F of this section. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018; amd.
Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
8-9-3: KINDS OF TREES:
   A.   The following specifies a list of trees approved for planting along
public right-of-ways in the Village. Only trees on this list may be used. (Ord.
642-2018, 9-28-2018)
Medium to large trees (height 40 feet and up):
Acer nigrum - Black Maple
Acer rubrum - Red Maple
Acer saccharum - Sugar Maple
Alnus cordata - Italian Alder
Celtis laevigata - Sugar Hackberry
Celtis occidentalis - Hackberry
Cercidiphyllum japonicum - Katsura Tree
Cladrastis lutea - Yellowwood
Corylus colurna - Turkish Filbert
Eucommia ulmoides - Hardy Rubber Tree
Fraxinus Americana - White Ash
Fraxinus excelsior - "Hessei" - Hesse European Ash
Fraxinus quadrangulata - Blue Ash
Ginkgo biloba - Maidenhair Tree (only male trees approved)
Gymnocladus dioicus - Kentucky Coffee Tree (only male trees approved)
Liquidambar styraciflua - Sweetgum
Liriodendron tulipifera - Tulip Tree
Magnolia acuminate - Cucumber Tree
Nyssa sylvatica - Sour Gum, Black Tupelo
Quercus alba - White Oak
Quercus bicolor - Swamp White Oak
Quercus coccinea - Scarlet Oak
Quercus imbricaria - Shingle Oak
Quercus macrocarpa - Burr Oak
Quercus robur - English Oak
Quercus rubra or borealis - Red Oak
Sassafras albidum - Sassafras
Taxodium distichum - Baldcypress
Tilia Americana - American Basswood
Tilia tomentosa - Silver Linden
Tilia x euchlora - Crimean Linden
Ulmus parvifolia - Lacebark Elm
Zelkova serrata - Japanese zelkova
Small trees (less than 35 feet tall):
Acer buergerianum - Trident Maple
Acer ginnala - Amur Maple
Acer griseum - Paperbark Maple
Acer miyabei - Miyabe Maple
Acer tataricum - Tatarian Maple
Amelanchier arborea - Shadbush, Serviceberry
Amelanchier laevis - Shadbush, Serviceberry
Carpinus betulus - European Hornbeam
Carpinus caroliniana - Hornbeam, Ironwood
Cornus alternifolia - Pagoda Dogwood
Cornus Florida - Flowering Dogwood
Crataegus species - Hawthorns; only thornless cultivars are approved
Halesia Carolina - Caroline Silverbell
Koelreuteria paniculata - Goldenraintree
Magnolia virginiana - Laurel or sweetbay magnolia
Malus species and varieties - Crabapple (only varieties and cultivars resistant
to scab disease and fireblight are approved)
Ostrya virginiana - Hophornbeam, Musclewood
Prunus sargentii - Sargent Cherry
Prunus serrulata - Japanese Flowering cherry
Staphylea trifolia - American Bladdernut
Syringa reticulata - Japanese Tree Lilac
(Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018; amd. Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   B.   The following specifies a list of trees prohibited; these may not be
used except when a specific exception has been granted under subsection 8-9-1C
of this chapter. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
There are some trees on this list of prohibited plants that are excellent for
use in yards and parks; however, for one reason or another, such as being
evergreen or producing an abundance of undesirable fruits, they are not
suitable for planting along streets. Species on this list and species not
included on the approved lists may, under certain circumstances, be planted
along streets if advance approval is given by the Director of Public Works. The
reasons for including species on the prohibited list are given below in
parentheses.
Abies species - All species and varieties of firs (evergreen)
Acer campestre - Hedge Maple
Acer negundo - Box elder (weak wood, disease problems)
Acer platanoides - Norway maple (disease problems)
Acer saccharinum - Silver maple (weak wood, disease problems)
Aesculus glabra - Ohio buckeye (messy fruit)
Aesculus hippocastanum - Horsechestnut (messy fruit)
Ailanthus altissima - Tree-of-heaven (weak wood, extremely weedy)
Alnus glutinosa - European Alder
Betula papyrifera - Paper-bark birch, White birch, canoe birch (disease
problems and insect pests)
Betula pendula - European white birch (disease problems, insect pests)
Betula nigra - River birch, red birch (disease problems, insect pests)
Carya species - All species and varieties of hickories and pecans (messy fruit)
Castanea species - All species and varieties of chestnuts (messy fruit)
Catalpa bignonoides - Catalpa (weak wood, messy fruit)
Catalpa speciosa - Catalpa (weak wood, messy fruit)
Cercis Canadensis - Redbud (weak crotching, difficulty in "raising" for
vehicular traffic)
Crataegus species - Hawthorns (thorns), thornless varieties are acceptable
Elaeagnus angustifolia - Russian olive (disease problems)
Fagus grandiflora - American beech (messy fruit, too large)
Fagus sylvatica - European beech (messy fruit, too large); columnar forms are
acceptable
Fraxinus pennsylvanica - Green ash
Ginkgo biloba - Female ginkgo trees (messy fruit); male trees acceptable
Gleditsia triacanthos - Honey locust (disease problems, insect pests)
Gymnocladus dioicus - Female Kentucky coffee tree (messy fruit); male trees are
acceptable
Ilex opaca - American holly (evergreen, insect pests)
Juglans species - All species and varieties of walnuts, butternuts, and pecans
(messy fruit)
Juniperus species - All species and varieties of junipers and cedars
(evergreen)
Maclura pomifera - Osage orange, Hedge-apple (thorns, messy fruit); thornless,
male varieties are acceptable
Magnolia x soulangiana - Saucer magnolia (low branching and spread)
Malus species - All large-fruited apples and apples susceptible to scab disease
and fire blight
Morus species - All (messy fruit)
Paulownia tomentosa - Empress Tree, Royal Paulownia (not hardy)
Phellodendron amurense - Amur Corktree
Picea species - All species and varieties of spruces (evergreen)
Pinus species - All species and varieties of pines (evergreen)
Platanus occidentalis - Sycamore (disease problems)
Platanus x acerifolia - London plane tree (disease problems)
Populus species - All (weak wood, messy fruit)
Prunus species - All cherries and plums, except as on approved lists (disease
problems, messy fruit, short-lived)
Pseudotsuga menziesii - Douglas fir (evergreen)
Pyrus calleryana - Any of the cultivars, including "Aristocrat" and "Redspire"
Pyrus communis - All large-fruited pears (disease problems, messy fruit)
Quercus palustris - Pin oak (often has iron chlorosis locally)
Robinia pseudoacacia - Black locust (messy fruit, disease problems and insect
pests)
Salix species - All willows (weak wood, messy)
Sophora japonica - Japanese pagoda tree (questionably hardy)
Sorbus aucuparia - Mountain ash (fire blight)
Thuja species - All species and varieties of arborvitaes (evergreen)
Tilia cordata - Littleleaf linden (branch angles, difficulty in "raising" for
vehicular clearance)
Tsuga species - All hemlocks (evergreen)
Ulmus americana - American elm (Dutch elm disease)
Ulmus pumila - Siberian elm, erroneously called Chinese Elm (weak wood, messy)
Ulmus rubra or fulva - Red elm, Slippery elm (disease problems)
(Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   C.   Any tree species not listed on either the approved, or species noted on
the prohibited list for which consent has been granted under subsection 8-9-1C
of this chapter, is acceptable. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
8-9-4: QUALITY OF TREES:
   A.   All trees must be true to species, variety, and/or cultivar, and each
plant must be labeled when delivered.
   B.   All trees must have normal trunks, leaders, tops, and branches typical
of the species, variety, or cultivar, and exhibit evidence of proper nursery
pruning practices.
   C.   All trees must be certified free of insect pests and diseases by the
Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, State of Illinois.
   D.   All trees must be free of mechanical injuries and not show evidence of
recent or previous wounds on the trunk.
   E.   All trees must be nursery grown and must have received proper
fertilizing, watering, top and root pruning as is normally needed for that
particular kind of tree. Plants must have been grown in nursery conditions for
the past two (2) years under soil and climate conditions similar to that of the
Village.
   F.   All plants must be balled-and-burlapped. The twine used to tie the
burlap must not be plastic. The balls should be of firm earth from the original
soil in which the tree grew in the nursery. No trees with broken, loose, or
manufactured balls are acceptable.
   G.   Plants on the list of approved medium to large trees must have trunks
at least one and one-half inch (11/2") in diameter measured six inches (6")
above the ground and a soil ball of at least twenty four inches (24") in
diameter. Plants on the list of small trees must be at least one inch (1") in
diameter measured six inches (6") above the ground and have a soil ball of at
least eighteen inches (18") in diameter. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
8-9-5: PLANTING PROCEDURES:
   A.   The planting hole should be two (2) to three (3) times larger in
diameter than the diameter of the root ball and a depth that, when planted the
root flare of the tree is at or slightly above grade. Root flare, also termed
root collar, means, for purposes of this subsection, the area at the base of a
tree where the trunk transitions from trunk and bark tissues into root system
tissues.
   B.   The root ball should be placed in the hole so that the tree is planted
with the root flare flush or slightly above the top of the hole, but not more
than one inch (1") higher than the top of the hole. Root flare, also termed
root collar, means, for purposes of this subsection, the area at the base of a
tree where the trunk transitions from trunk and bark tissues into root system
tissues. (Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   C.   After placing the plant in the hole, the hole should be filled with
backfill so that no air pockets are left beneath or around the ball. The
backfill should be tamped so that it is packed firmly.
   D.   The twine holding the burlap around the ball must be cut and the burlap
loosened from around the top of the ball. Do not attempt to remove the burlap
from beneath the ball. Any plastic or treated burlap used to protect the ball
during shipment must be removed before planting.
   E.   The trunks should be vertical after planting. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-
2018)
   F.   Excess soil should be removed from the site and a three inch (3") to
four inch (4") deep layer of mulch placed around, but not touching the bark of,
the tree. (Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   G.   Plants should be watered at the time of planting. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-
2018)
   H.   A lawn-mower guard of the type approved by the Department of Public
Works should be placed around the base of the trunk. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018;
amd. Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   I.   Staking is not typically recommended; however, when necessary, follow
current recommendations.
   J.   Plants should be judiciously pruned after planting to remove broken,
weak, and interfering branches and multiple leaders. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
8-9-6: EARLY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Newly planted trees, shrubs and other plants require special
maintenance for one or two (2) growing seasons following planting. All
maintenance practices shall follow approved arboricultural standards.
   B.   Watering: Ample soil moisture shall be maintained following planting. A
thorough watering once in five (5) to ten (10) days, depending on soil type and
drainage provisions, is usually adequate during the growing season. A soil
auger can be used to check the adequacy of moisture in the soil ball and/or
backfill.
   C.   Fertilization: Adequate quantities of the essential nutrient elements
should be available after new root growth starts. However, provision of good
drainage and adequate moisture of the backfill, or the soil ball on balled
plants, is more important than fertilization immediately following planting.
   D.   Insect And Disease Control: Frequent and thorough inspections shall be
made to determine which measures for the control of insects and diseases shall
be taken. Plants are in a weakened condition following transplanting and they
are more susceptible to insects, especially borers, and disease than are
vigorously growing trees. Where it is necessary to spray, insecticides or
fungicides shall be used that are labeled for the purpose intended. (Ord. 642-
2018, 9-28-2018)
   E.   Pruning: Pruning newly planted trees shall be in compliance with
accepted arboricultural standards (e.g., ANSI, ISA, etc.). (Ord. 649-2019, 7-
15-2019)
8-9-7: GENERAL MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Pruning And Removal: No topping or dehorning of trees shall be
permitted, except by written permission of the Director of Public Works. Proper
cabling and bracing shall be substituted for this practice wherever possible.
      1.   All large, established trees shall be pruned to the following height
to allow free passage of pedestrians and vehicular traffic: at least seven feet
(7') over sidewalks and a minimum clearance of fourteen feet (14') over all
streets.
      2.   It shall be the policy of the Director of Public Works to cooperate
with the Municipal or utility lighting engineer, and vice versa, in the
placement and selection of lighting standards and the development of a system
of tree pruning that will give effective street illumination.
      3.   All cuts shall be made with a saw or pruner and only at the nodes or
crotches. No stubs shall be left. No spurs or climbing irons shall be used in
the trees, except when trees are to be removed.
      4.   All dead branches shall be removed; branches that cross or rub
should be pruned to eliminate the problem.
      5.   To prevent the spread of infectious diseases, all pruning tools must
be disinfected before being used on a new tree.
      6.   Whenever streets are to be blocked off to public service, all Police
and Fire Departments shall be notified of the location and length of time the
street will be blocked. Notifications shall be given these departments upon the
removal of such barriers or if such barriers are to remain longer than
originally expected.
      7.   To protect the public from danger, suitable street and sidewalk
barriers, highway cones, or signs shall be used when pruning a tree. Signals,
flares or flasher lights shall be placed on all barriers or obstructions
remaining in the street after dark.
      8.   The stumps of all removed trees shall be cut to at least six inches
(6") below the ground level, the soil cavity shall be filled with soil and then
leveled. (Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   B.   Spraying: Suitable precautions shall be taken to protect and warn the
public that spraying is being done.
      1.   Spraying shall be done only for the control of specific diseases or
insects, with the proper materials in the necessary strength, and applied at
the proper time, to obtain the desired control. All spraying practices shall
conform to Federal and State regulations.
      2.   Dormant oil sprays shall not be applied to Sugar Maple, Japanese
Maple, Beech, Flowering Dogwood, Hickory, Walnut, and most crabapple trees.
Dormant oil sprays shall be applied only when the air temperature is at least
forty degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) for a period of twenty four (24) hours after
spraying.
   C.   Fertilization: Fertilization of public trees shall follow the
recommendations of the Natural History Survey or other accepted arboricultural
standards.
Methods of application of fertilizers shall be specified by the Director of
Public Works. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
   D.   Cavities: Trees with an extensive cavity(ies) shall be removed
promptly. (Ord. 649-2019, 7-15-2019)
   E.   Cabling And Bracing: As a general rule, cables should be located above
the crotch at a point approximately two-thirds (2/3) of the distance between
the crotch and tops of the branch ends. Rust-resistant cables, thimbles, and
lags should be used. The ends of a cable should be attached to hooks or eyes of
lags or bolts inserted near the ends of the branches; thimbles must be used in
the eye splice in each end of the cable. In no instance shall cable be wrapped
around a branch.
All cabling and bracing practices with screw rods shall follow National
Arborist Association or other accepted arboricultural standards. (Ord. 642-
2018, 9-28-2018)
8-9-8: TREE PROTECTION:
   A.   Construction Zone: It is the responsibility of the building permit
holder, as a condition of permit, to protect all public trees located on the
adjacent public right-of-way that may reasonably be expected to be affected or
damaged by construction activities. Existing trees subject to construction
damage shall be boxed, fenced, or otherwise protected before any work is
started. The trees to be protected, the method of protection, and the
dimensions involved shall be determined by the Superintendent conjunctly with
the permit holder or his/her agent. Once assembled, no boxing, fencing or other
protection device shall be removed without prior approval of the Director of
Public Works, and there will be no construction activity or material within the
enclosure.
      1.   Dimensions: Small trees, as determined by the Director of Public
Works, shall be boxed or fenced in such a manner as to encompass the entire
drip line area of the tree. In no case shall the enclosure be less than two
feet (2') from the centerline of the tree. Medium to large trees shall be boxed
or fenced in a manner determined by the Director of Public Works based on sound
arboricultural practices. In no case shall the protective device be closer than
ten feet (10') from the centerline of the tree except in those portions
bordered by the public sidewalk or curb, in which case the protective device
shall be offset wherever possible.
   B.   Utility Installations (Underground): All installations of the
underground utilities upon the public right-of-way are subject to approval by
the Village. Any and all installations that impact on public trees due to
underground conflicts (roots) are specifically subject to the review and
approval of the Director of Public Works before the project starts. (Ord. 642-
2018, 9-28-2018)
8-9-9: ENFORCEMENT:
In the event any of the provisions of this chapter are violated, the Village
shall have the authority to seek any one or any combination of the following
remedies:
   A.   Injunctive relief.
   B.   A fine for each violation in an amount not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Authority to have any tree removed which is in violation, with the cost
of said removal as a lien against the abutting property and judgment against
the party responsible for the violation.
The foregoing remedies shall be available to the Village following a
determination by the Director of Public Works that this chapter has been
violated, and a ten (10) day notice to abate has been served upon the owner of
the adjacent property and/or violator, personally or by certified mail
addressed to the owner or resident at the abutting property, and/or violator's
address with a copy by first class mail. Notwithstanding any notice
requirements or any other rights or requirements provided by law, the Village
shall be entitled to removal of any violating trees as is deemed appropriate by
the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 642-2018, 9-28-2018)
CHAPTER 10
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
8-10-1: Purpose And Scope
8-10-2: Definitions
8-10-3: Annual Registration Required
8-10-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
8-10-5: Action On Permit Applications
8-10-6: Effect Of Permit
8-10-7: Revised Permit Drawings
8-10-8: Insurance
8-10-9: Indemnification
8-10-10: Security
8-10-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
8-10-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
8-10-13: General Construction Standards
8-10-14: Traffic Control
8-10-15: Location Of Facilities
8-10-16: Construction Methods And Materials
8-10-17: Vegetation Control
8-10-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-10-19: Cleanup And Restoration
8-10-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
8-10-21: Variances
8-10-22: Penalties
8-10-23: Enforcement
8-10-24: Severability
8-10-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the Village
rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   C.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The Village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the Village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the Village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the Village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   D.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the Village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   E.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   F.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   G.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the Village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code section 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the Village of Cerro Gordo.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of- way lines of a
right-of-way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The Village Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right- of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track and
rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-
of- way under this chapter, except those owned by the Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life,
health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
ILCC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of- way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
8-10-4 and
8-10-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the Village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the Village has
the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the Village. "Right-of-way" shall not include
any real or personal Village property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include Village buildings, fixtures, and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
8-10-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include wireless telecommunications
as defined in the Illinois Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
Act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/1 et seq. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC
sections 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CFR 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Means any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as defined
in this chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VILLAGE: The Village of Cerro Gordo, Piatt County, Illinois.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 646-2019,
2-18-2019)
8-10-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the Village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in section
8-10-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. A
telecommunications provider that has registered under this section, shall be
deemed to have satisfied the registration requirement. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-
2019)
8-10-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village
right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the right- of-way, without
first filing an application with the Director of Public Works and obtaining a
permit from the Village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that is reasonably
believed to contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ILCC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
8-10-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in section
8-10-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
8-10-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" has been issued by the ILCC that the applicant is
required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The Director of
Public Works shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Director of Public Works fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
8-10-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
Village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on Village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   B.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the Village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
8-10-21 of this chapter. If the Village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the Village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the Village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the Village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
   "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the Village Clerk of such intent to cancel or not
to renew."
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self insurer" under the Workers' Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-
18-2019)
8-10-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the Village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the Village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the Village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the Village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of Public Works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the Village estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Director of
Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the Village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security
Fund, the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the Village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the Village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-
18-2019)
8-10-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The Village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The Village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the Village providing written proof of such
removal to the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the Village or
its designee may, at the option of the Village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the non- compliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the Village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the Village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the Village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the Village's right-
of- way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 646-2019,
2-18-2019)
8-10-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      2.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      3.   Highway Design Manual;
      4.   Highway Standards Manual;
      5.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      6.   Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code section 545);
      7.   Flagger's Handbook; and
      8.   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Director of Public Works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
8-10-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the Village. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         c.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         d.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a highway only if
other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound engineering
judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit without
disrupting the pavement); and
In the case of an underground power or communications line, the facility shall
be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not more than five
feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right- of-way
line or as near as practicable.
   B.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of Village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right- of-
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707 (1989)).
   C.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The Village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   D.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The Village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   E.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   F.   Above Ground Installation: Above ground facilities may be installed
only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Director of Public Works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         c.   Tree Drip Line: The utility shall not trench within the drip line
of any tree designated by the Village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a facility is
completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore any
backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
Director of Public Works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
8-10-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the Director of Public Works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                           Minimum Cover
Power or communication line (in general)   30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication line installed by the plowed 24 inches (0.6 m)
method
Gas or petroleum products                  30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                                 Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                           protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                       protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 305 (formerly General Order
160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction of
Electric Power and Communications Lines", and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a Village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Waterlines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or Drainage
Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and drainage lines
within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the current
"Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works. With the approval of
the Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval
must be obtained from the Village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the Village, the hours of construction
are those set forth in this Code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the Village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act 1 . (Ord. 646-
2019, 2-18-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
8-10-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   B.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   C.   Chemical Use: Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not
be permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within
the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any Village improvement
in or upon, or the operations of the Village in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-
way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the Village, as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the Municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village
within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the Village may
direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director
of Public Works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of
the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the Village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a timely
manner and to the satisfaction of the Village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Director of Public Works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the Village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the Village of
a description of the repairs undertaken in the right- of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Director of Public Works shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The Director of Public Works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when the Village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
Village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility who does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-
2019)
8-10-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
8-10-24: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 646-2019, 2-18-2019)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Enforcement Official
9-1-2: Authority To Turn On Water
9-1-3: Connections To System
9-1-4: Single And Multiple Services
9-1-5: Water Service Permit And Deposit Requirements
9-1-6: Water Rates
9-1-7: Bills For Service; Liability; Late Payment Penalty
9-1-8: Delinquent Payments
9-1-9: Construction Specifications
9-1-10: Maintenance And Repair
9-1-11: Use Of Water During Construction
9-1-12: Right To Shut Off Water
9-1-13: Discontinuance Of Service By Consumer
9-1-14: Limiting Water Usage
9-1-15: Extension Of Mains
9-1-16: Resale Of Water Prohibited
9-1-17: Inspections
9-1-18: Penalty
9-1-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to enforce the provisions
of this chapter and to correct any leakages and waste of water. (1995 Code §
6.102)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY TO TURN ON WATER:
No person or persons other than the Director of Public Works and firefighters
in performance of their duties in emergencies, and those authorized by the
Director of Public Works shall open any hydrant or turn any public stopcock, or
attempt to draw water from the same, or in any manner interfere with or injure
any such hydrant or stopcock. (1995 Code § 6.110)
9-1-3: CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Permit To Connect: Upon written application, the Director of Public
Works will decide whether to permit water to be supplied to a new structure or
location not currently being supplied by the Village water system.
   B.   Connection To System: Upon permission, the Village Water Department
will tap the water main and will furnish a service line and appurtenances up to
the applicant's property line. The Village will furnish only the following:
corporation cock, water meter, meter tile, lid, yoke, curb box and a type K
copper or any other material approved by the current edition of the Illinois
State Plumbing Code, as amended, supply pipe not exceeding sixty feet (60') in
length from the water main to the meter.
   C.   Connection Charges: The charge for making the new connection to the
Village system shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00). An applicant must,
at the applicant's own expense, use a private licensed plumber for purposes of
making the new connection, but any connection is subject to inspection and
approval of the Director of Public Works prior to the connection being
authorized. The inspection by the Director of Public Works shall be included in
the cost of connection set forth herein. An applicant shall provide evidence
that said licensed plumber is bonded and insured to the Village Clerk prior to
work commencing. (Ord. 2014-600, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 643-2018, 11-19-2018;
amd. Ord. 663-2020, 10-19-2020)
9-1-4: SINGLE AND MULTIPLE SERVICES:
   A.   A single-family dwelling shall be served by a separate water service
line. Multi-family structures may be served by a single service line adequate
for all living units if all units are under the ownership and control of one
person or firm, or cooperative group.
   B.   All single-family units shall be served by a separate water meter as
will all businesses and restaurants. Multi- family structures may be served by
one meter if all units are under the ownership or control of one person, firm
or cooperative. (1995 Code §§ 6.119, 6.122)
9-1-5: WATER SERVICE PERMIT AND DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: The supply of water from any premises supplied through
the Village water system is prohibited except after permission which shall be
obtained from the Village. When more than one building or tenant is supplied
through one service pipe, the application for the supply of such buildings or
tenants shall be made by one person, and said person shall be held responsible
for all supplies through such service pipe.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for water service shall be made in
writing to the Director of Public Works and shall contain an agreement by the
applicant to abide by and accept all of the provisions of this chapter as
conditions governing the use of the Village water supply.
   C.   Deposit Required:
      1.   A deposit of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) for
applicants who are owners of record, nonowner occupant, renter, tenant, or
lessee of the property receiving the water service shall be made with each
application provided in this section, which sum shall be retained by the
Village to ensure the payment of all bills.
      2.   When service to the applicant is discontinued permanently, the
amount still due the Village for water service shall be paid in full by the
applicant. Upon payment in full, the deposit shall be returned, without
interest, upon request of the person or persons entitled thereto. If no request
is made within one year after said permanent discontinuation, said monies shall
become Village property and shall be deposited into the Water Fund of the
Village. (1995 Code § 6.101; amd. Ord. 492, 1-17-2005; Ord. 661-2020, 8-17-
2020; Ord. 674-2022, 5-16-2022)
9-1-6: WATER RATES:
   A.   User Rates:
      1.   Inside Corporate Limits: There shall be and there hereby are
established charges and rates, for the use of and for the service supplied by
the water system of the Village of Cerro Gordo, based upon the amount of water
consumed as shown by water meters as follows: Beginning December 1, 2020,
seventeen dollars seventy cents ($17.70) minimum charge for one thousand five
hundred (1,500) gallons or less, plus 0.058 cents for each gallon or portion
thereof over one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons.
      2.   Effective May 1, 2021, and each May 1 thereafter, the charges and
rates for the use of and for the service supplied by the water system of the
Village of Cerro Gordo, based upon the amount of water consumed as shown by
water meters, shall increase by three percent (3%).
      3.   Stormwater Utility Fee: Effective January 1, 2016, there is hereby
established a monthly stormwater utility fee. A stormwater utility fee shall be
charged to owners of real estate located within the Village and the charge
shall be contained, included and a part of the monthly water bill for that
property.
         a.   Monthly Fees: The monthly stormwater utility fees for property
with improvements, shall be as follows, according to water meter
classification: Apartments shall not be considered residential for this
purpose.
            (1)   Residential lot: Four dollars ($4.00) per month.
            (2)   Other than residential: Six dollars ($6.00) per month.
         b.   Unpaid Stormwater Fees: Irrespective of any change in ownership,
the owner of each parcel of real estate shall be liable for the payment of any
unpaid stormwater utility fees.
         c.   Exemptions: Except as otherwise provided in this section, the
following properties shall be exempt from the payment of stormwater utility
fees:
            (1)   All properties within the Village of Cerro Gordo that are
owned by the Village of Cerro Gordo.
            (2)   Unimproved land.
            (3)   Such exemption from the payment of stormwater utility fees
shall continue until such time as the use of that property changes.
         d.   Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the stormwater
utility fees shall be deposited in a Stormwater Management Fund to be created
by the Treasurer for the purpose of constructing, maintaining, rebuilding and
reconstructing the Village's stormwater management system and related
infrastructure.
      3.   Outside Corporate Limits: Users outside the corporate limits of the
village shall pay rates equal to two hundred percent (200%) of the rates
established for users located within the corporate limits.
   B.   Bulk Water: Bulk water sold to tank wagons loading water at a location
provided by the village is to be charged by contract at the rate to be
established by the board of trustees. (1995 Code § 6.104; amd. Ord. 611-2015,
12-21-2015; Ord. 620-2017, 2-20-2017; Ord. 664-2020, 10-19-2020; Ord. 690-2024,
11-18-2024; Ord. 694-2025, 5-19-2025)
9-1-7: BILLS FOR SERVICE; LIABILITY; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
   A.   Treasurer Duties: It is hereby made the duty of the village treasurer
to render bills for service and all charges in connection therewith and to
collect all monies due thereon.
   B.   Liability For Payment: The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof,
and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
the service on such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by
the village only upon condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and
user of the service are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
   C.   Rendition Of Bills; Due Date: All bills for service shall be rendered
to the user as of the first day of the month succeeding the period for which
the service is billed and shall be payable not later than the close of business
on the fifteenth day of the same month. A penalty of twenty dollars ($20.00)
shall be added to all bills not paid on or before the fifteenth day of the
month rendered. If the fifteenth day of said month is a Saturday, Sunday or a
legal holiday, then such bills for service shall be payable by no later than
the end of the next succeeding business day without any additional penalty.
   D.   Notice Of Late Payment; Delinquency and Disconnection Warning: In the
event payment in full has not been made by the end of business on the fifteenth
day of said month or the end of the first business day thereafter, the village
treasurer is hereby authorized and directed as follows:
      1.   to send to the billing address, by first class United States mail, a
Notice of Late Payment setting forth the total amount due and owing, which
shall include any penalty provided in Section C herein.
      2.   In the event payment in full has not been made by the first day of
the month following issuance of the Notice of Late Payment, a bill shall be
rendered to the user which includes the full amount due, including: (i) the
service billed for the immediately previous month; (ii) the outstanding unpaid
balance from the previous month; (iii) any late fee(s) assessed. Said bill
shall be paid on or before the fifteenth day of the month rendered. In the
event the fifteenth day of said month is a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal
holiday, then such bill for service and outstanding balance and fees shall be
payable by no later than the end of the next succeeding business day without
any additional penalty. Said bill shall include a Delinquency and Disconnection
Warning to the account holder that services will be deemed delinquent as set
forth herein and services will be shut off without further notice if the amount
set forth therein is not paid, in full, on the first day of the month after the
date of the notice of late payment. In the event the first day of the month as
set forth on the notice of late payment is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, then the total amount set forth therein shall be paid by no later than
the end of business on the first business day thereafter.
   E.   Returned Check Penalty: In the event any payment by check tendered for
payment of an account is returned for any reason after being presented by the
village to a financial institution for payment, a twenty five dollar ($25.00)
returned check fee will be added to the account, in addition to the late
payment penalty set forth herein, if applicable.
      1.   In the event a payment by check is returned for any reason after
being presented by the village to a financial institution for payment, the
village treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to send, by first class
United States mail, a notice of returned check to the billing address notifying
the account holder that the check has been returned by the financial
institution and directing that the account must be paid, in full, to include
the outstanding bill amount, the twenty five dollar ($25.00) returned check
fee, and any late penalty, if applicable, in cash or money order on or before
the fifth day after the date of the notice of returned check or the twenty
sixth day of the month the bill was rendered, whichever is later, and warning
the account holder that services will be deemed delinquent as set forth herein
and that services will be disconnected without further notice if said amount is
not paid, in full, on or before the fifth day after the date of the notice of
returned check or the twenty sixth of the month the bill was rendered,
whichever is later. In the event the fifth day after the date of the notice of
returned check or the twenty sixth of the month of the date the bill was
rendered is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the total amount shall
be paid no later than the end of business on the first business day thereafter.
      2.   In the event an account has two (2) checks returned after
presentation to a financial institution during any twelve (12) month period,
all future account payments must be made by cash or money order. (Ord. 612-
2016, 3-21-2016, eff. 5-1-2016; amd. Ord. 674-2022, 5-16-2022)
9-1-8: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
   A.   Lien Claim: In the event the charges for services and penalties, if
applicable, are not paid as defined in section
9-1-7 of this chapter, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to
be delinquent, and thereafter, such delinquencies shall constitute liens upon
the real estate for which such service is supplied. The village treasurer is
hereby authorized and directed to file sworn statements showing such
delinquencies in the office of the county recorder of deeds, and the filing of
such statements shall be deemed notice of the lien for payment of the service
rendered.
   B.   Disconnection Of Service; Reconnection Fee: In the event the charges
for such service become delinquent as defined in this chapter, the village
treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to cause a Disconnection Notice to
be given in writing to the user of the service that such delinquency exists and
services shall be disconnected without further notice as further provided in
this chapter, Upon the first disconnecting of any service within a twelve month
period, a reconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be made for
reconnecting the same after settlement of the delinquent account, including any
late penalties and/or returned check fee(s) that have accrued. In the event
service is disconnected for a second or subsequent time within a rolling twelve
(12) month period, then the reconnection fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00)
shall be made for reconnecting the same after settlement of the delinquent
account, including any late penalties and/or returned check fee(s) that have
accrued. (Ord. 612-2016, 3-21-2016, eff. 5-1-2016; amd. Ord. 674-2022, 5-16-
2022)
9-1-9: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All service lines shall be type K copper or any other material approved
by the current edition of the Illinois state plumbing code, as amended. Brass
fittings shall be used for copper and PVC pipe. (1995 Code § 6.120; amd. 2012
Code)
   B.   All construction and materials shall comply with title 8, chapter 1 of
this code and the current edition of the Illinois state plumbing code, as
amended, when applicable. (1995 Code § 6.123; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   All service lines and water mains shall be buried at a depth of not
less than thirty six inches (36"). (1995 Code § 6.121)
9-1-10: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
Hydrants, service pipes, and all attachments and fittings connected therewith
shall be kept in good repair and condition by the owner or occupant of the
premises upon which they are situated, at his own expense; and it is expressly
provided that no claim shall be made or allowed against the village or any of
its officers or employees on account of the breaking of any of said water
apparatus, or on account of the stoppage of the supply of water by reason of
accident to the pumping machinery or mains, or for the necessary alterations or
repairs of the same. (1995 Code § 6.111)
9-1-11: USE OF WATER DURING CONSTRUCTION:
Persons desiring to obtain water for building purposes or those having water
introduced into their premises desiring to use the same for that purpose must,
before such use, install a water meter, and in no case shall any person or
persons using or permitting the use of water for building purposes be relieved
from the responsibility to the village for the use thereof; and the use of
water in all cases without such permission as aforesaid shall be deemed a
fraudulent use thereof and shall be subject to the penalties set out in this
chapter. (1995 Code § 6.113)
9-1-12: RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER:
   A.   Generally: The right is hereby reserved to cut off the supply of water
at any time for the purpose of repairs or otherwise, any permit granted or
regulation granted to the contrary notwithstanding. (1995 Code § 6.115)
   B.   Illegal Tapping And Wasting:
      1.   Any person receiving water from the village waterworks system
without a properly installed and working meter, or without paying the
appropriate charges as defined in section
9-1-6 of this chapter, or unreasonably or unnecessarily wasting water shall be
in violation of this chapter and shall have his water supply shut off and
stopped forthwith.
      2.   Where the water supply shall have been cut off for violation of the
provisions of this subsection, it shall not again be turned on to such premises
from which it was cut off until there shall have been paid to the village such
sum of money as shall be deemed to be properly due the village for the amount
of water furnished to or used by any such person. (1995 Code § 6.117)
9-1-13: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE BY CONSUMER:
It is hereby made the duty of each owner, agent, lessee or person in possession
or control of any premises, which is occupied by a tenant, if said tenant is
paying meter charges, to give notice in writing, or otherwise, of the vacancy
of any premises controlled or in his possession within five (5) days after the
time such vacancy occurs. If the tenant of the premises is paying water
charges, which shall become vacant, and if the said premises shall become and
remain vacant for a period of time exceeding five (5) days, the water supply to
such premises may be shut off. When any water is shut off, as is provided in
this section, it shall be turned on again, free of charge, upon a formal
request being made that the water supply be turned on, unless the person on the
premises for which request for turning on said water shall be in arrears to the
village in the payment of any water charges, and in that case, no water will be
supplied or turned on until such person in arrears shall pay all arrears to the
village. (1995 Code § 6.107)
9-1-14: LIMITING WATER USAGE:
The village shall reserve the power to limit the amount or purpose of water
used when unusual circumstances make that necessary in the board's judgment.
(1995 Code § 6.116)
9-1-15: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   The expense of extending a six inch (6") water main shall be borne by
the benefiting property owners whose properties will be served by the
installation. If a water main larger than six inches (6") is needed, the
village will bear the difference in cost of a six inch (6") water main and the
larger water main.
   B.   Extension of a water main and service line outside the village limits
shall require approval of the village board. Expense for the main and service
line shall be borne by the benefiting property owner(s). (1995 Code § 6.118)
9-1-16: RESALE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
village water supply to any premises other than that for which application has
been made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency, or by special
agreement with the village board after presentation of a written application.
(1995 Code § 6.114)
9-1-17: INSPECTIONS:
All officers and employees of the village shall have free access at all
reasonable hours to the premises where water is used to make necessary
examinations or to read meters, and they may cause any meter to be taken and
examined and tested at any time that it is deemed necessary. (1995 Code §
6.112)
9-1-18: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be subjected to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 6.124; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Cross Connections Restricted
9-1A-2: Surveys And Investigations
9-1A-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
9-1A-4: Inspections
9-1A-5: Violations; Disconnection Of Water Service; Reconnection Fee
9-1A-6: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
9-1A-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish, or permit to be established, or
maintain or permit to be maintained, any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public distribution
system of the village may enter the supply or distribution system of the
village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
director of public works and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
(1995 Code § 6.202; amd. 2012 Code)
9-1A-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the director of public works to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the director of public works shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (1995 Code § 6.203)
9-1A-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the director
of public works, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the director of public works will
give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and
local regulations. (1995 Code § 6.201)
9-1A-4: INSPECTIONS:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross connections, and the director of public works
or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time
any property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the
customer regarding the required cross connection control inspection. On demand,
the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
director of public works any information which he may request regarding the
piping system or water use on such property. The refusal of such information,
when demanded, shall, with the discretion of the director of public works, be
deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this
article. (1995 Code § 6.204)
9-1A-5: VIOLATIONS; DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE; RECONNECTION FEE:
The village director of public works is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
article is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this article, and until a reconnection fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can
be effected when the director of public works is assured that imminent danger
of harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply;
provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the director of public works or the
Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
Neither the public water supply, the director of public works, nor its agents
or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this article, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice. (1995 Code § 6.205; amd. 2012 Code)
9-1A-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (1995 Code § 6.206)
ARTICLE B. PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Permit To Drill Wells
9-1B-2: Impact Statement
9-1B-3: Drilling Data
9-1B-4: Cease Drilling Or Use Order
9-1B-5: Exemptions From Provisions
9-1B-6: Violation; Penalties
9-1B-1: PERMIT TO DRILL WELLS:
Any person, individual, municipality or other entity shall be prohibited from
drilling any wells within a ten (10) mile radius of the village without first
obtaining a permit from the village president and board of trustees. (1995 Code
§ 6.301)
9-1B-2: IMPACT STATEMENT:
Any person or entity applying for a permit to drill a well within a ten (10)
mile radius of the village shall supply to the village president and board of
trustees an impact statement which shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer in the state of Illinois and showing in detail the type
of well construction including, but not limited to, the depth, the proposed
formation into which they expect to drill, the amount of water they expect to
pump, whether the well will be cased, how they intend to use the water, and the
amount they expect to pump daily, weekly, monthly and annually. (1995 Code §
6.302; amd. 2012 Code)
9-1B-3: DRILLING DATA:
Any person or entity obtaining a permit to drill a well within the stated area
shall report to the village president and board of trustees all data concerning
the drilling of said well including, but not limited to, its depth, capacity,
water level, draw down and any other information requested by the village
president and board of trustees. (1995 Code § 6.303)
9-1B-4: CEASE DRILLING OR USE ORDER:
The village president and board of trustees may at any time require any person
drilling a well with its permission to cease drilling, or if the well is
drilled and is in production, to cease the use of said well, if, in the opinion
of the village president and board of trustees, the well may diminish or
pollute the village water supply. (1995 Code § 6.304)
9-1B-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This article shall not apply to persons drilling a water, oil or gas well for
personal use, nor shall it apply to persons drilling a well for general farm
use. (1995 Code § 6.306)
9-1B-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person or entity drilling a well for any purpose including, but not limited
to, water wells, oil wells and gas wells within the territory of a ten (10)
mile radius of the village without a permit from the village president and
board of trustees shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The continued operation of drilling and/or pumping a well
without permission from the village president and board of trustees shall be
deemed a separate offense for each day's drilling or operation, and each day
the person or entity may be fined an additional fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Continuing to pump or operate a well after notification
from the village president and board of trustees to cease said pumping or
operation shall also be deemed a misdemeanor and subject to a like fine. Each
day of pumping or operation after the notice to cease pumping shall be deemed a
separate offense. (1995 Code § 6.305; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-2-2: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
9-2-3: Building Sewers And Connections
9-2-4: Discharges Into System
9-2-5: Interceptors
9-2-6: Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalization
9-2-7: Control Manhole
9-2-8: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
9-2-9: Special Agreements
9-2-10: Damage To, Tampering With System
9-2-11: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-2-12: Violations; Penalties
9-2-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste. (1995 Code § 7.101)
   B.   Treatment Required: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with this chapter. (1995 Code § 7.102)
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (1995 Code § 7.103)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley,
or right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located
any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the village is hereby required, at
his expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within one hundred feet
(100') (30.48 m) of the property line. (1995 Code § 7.104)
9-2-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section. (1995 Code § 7.105)
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the director of public works.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the village, which the applicant shall supplement
with any plans, specifications, and other information as is deemed necessary by
the director of public works. (1995 Code § 7.106)
      3.   Inspections: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
director of public works. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the director of public works when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within sixty (60) hours of the receipt of written notice by the director of
public works. (1995 Code § 7.107)
      4.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be
paid to the village at the time the application is filed. (1995 Code § 7.106;
amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of
Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
(8,858 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet. (1995 Code § 7.108)
   D.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
Village. (1995 Code § 7.110)
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned
and filled with suitable material. (1995 Code § 7.109)
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days, and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or
dirt. (1995 Code § 7.112)
   F.   Additional Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the DeWitt Piatt Bicounty Health Officer. (1995 Code § 7.111; amd. 2012 Code)
9-2-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
repairs or openings into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenances thereof without first obtaining written permission from the
Director of Public Works.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential and commercial service; and b) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
Village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Director of Public Works.
      3.   Connection Fees: The charge for making the new connection to the
Village system shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00). An applicant must,
at the applicant's own expense, use a private licensed plumber for purposes of
making the new connection, but any connection by a licensed plumber is subject
to inspection and approval of the Director of Public Works prior to connection
being authorized. The inspection by the Director of Public Works shall be
included in the cost of connection set forth herein. An applicant shall provide
evidence that said licensed plumber is bonded and insured to the Village Clerk
prior to work commencing.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate building sewer shall be provided
for every building, except one line of adequate capacity may serve multi-family
units under separate ownership and located on the same tract of land with
approval of Director of Public Works.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Director of Public Works, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Installation And Connection Requirements:
      1.   Installation of all building sewers shall conform to the current
edition of the Illinois State Plumbing Code, as amended, and construction and
specification standards of the Village. All sewer lines shall be buried below
normal frost line or thirty six inches (36") to top of the pipe minimum.
      2.   All building sewers shall be ABS (solid wall), SDR 23.5, ASTM
specification D2751 with solvent cement joints conforming to ASTM D2235 or PVC
(solid wall), SDR 35, ASTM specification D3034 with solvent cement joints
conforming to ASTM D2564, with a minimum size of four inches (4") in diameter.
      3.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved.
   E.   Installation By Property Owner:
      1.   The property owner may install a building sewer line to his/her
building as long as there is compliance with all installation and material
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The owner is responsible for any damage to village sewer lines. He
shall make immediate repairs if caused by his/her negligence. If repairs are
not made, the village shall cause such repairs to be made and shall have the
right to file a lien against the said property as well as file a lawsuit for
damages and other remedies.
      3.   In the event any person or entity, other than the owner,
individually installs the necessary piping and does the other work necessary
and incident to installing and hooking the sewer to the premises, then said
person or entity must furnish the village, prior to beginning any work, a
performance bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), conditioned
on the fact that no damage will result to the village on account of said work,
and must further furnish to the village a certificate of insurance in the
following minimum amounts:
 
$250,000.00                            Bodily injury
$250,000.00                            Property damage
$100,000.00/$300,000.00/$100,000.00    Automobile liability insurance
Workers' compensation on all employees  
 
   F.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      2.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal clean water act and more stringent state and local standards.
   G.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses for the
installation of the building service line from the property line to the
building shall be borne by property owner. (1995 Code §§ 7.113, 7.114, 7.116 -
7.125; amd. Ord. 493, 3-21-2005; 2012 Code; Ord. 643-2018, 11-19-2018; Ord.
663-2020, 10-19-2020)
9-2-4: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Waters:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer. (1995 Code § 7.126)
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the director of public works. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the director of public works, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural
outlet. (1995 Code § 7.127)
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the director of public works that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the director of public works will give consideration to such factors as
the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the director of public works.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the director of public works for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the director of public works as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the director of public works
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligram
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the director of public works
in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligram per liter at any time
except as permitted by the director of public works in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works. (1995 Code § 7.129)
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting slugs. (1995 Code § 7.129; amd. 2012 Code)
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. (1995 Code § 7.129)
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in "Chapter 1, EPA
Rules And Regulations, Subchapter D, Water Programs, Part 128, Pretreatment
Standards, Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973",
and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the director of
public works, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the director of public works may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or (1995 Code § 7.130)
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of article A of this chapter. (1995 Code § 7.130; amd. 2012 Code)
      3.   If the director of public works permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of said director and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(1995 Code § 7.130)
9-2-5: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the director of public works, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the director of public works and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1995 Code § 7.131)
9-2-6: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (1995 Code § 7.132)
9-2-7: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when required
by the director of public works, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer, to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the director of
public works. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (1995
Code § 7.133)
9-2-8: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village.
   C.   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the
village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service. (1995 Code § 7.134)
   D.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from a twenty four (24) hour composite of all outfalls, whereas
pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (1995 Code § 7.135)
9-2-9: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with
article A of this chapter, by the industrial concern, provided such payments
are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system. (1995 Code § 7.136; amd. 2012 Code)
9-2-10: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (1995 Code §
7.137)
9-2-11: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   1. The director of public works and other duly authorized employees of
the village, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S.
environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The director of public works or his representative
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries, beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterway or facilities for waste treatment. (1995 Code § 7.138)
      2.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection A1 of this section, the director of public works or duly
authorized employees of the village, the Illinois environmental protection
agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions. (1995 Code § 7.139)
   B.   The director of public works and other duly authorized employees of the
village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (1995 Code §
7.140)
9-2-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the village with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter. (1995
Code § 7.141)
   C.   Fine: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day on which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (1995 Code § 7.142; amd.
2012 Code)
   D.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(1995 Code § 7.143)
ARTICLE A. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Basis For Sewer Service Charges
9-2A-2: Measurement Of Flow
9-2A-3: Rates And Charges Established
9-2A-4: Computation Of Charges
9-2A-5: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
9-2A-6: Delinquent Payments
9-2A-7: Revenues
9-2A-8: Accounting
9-2A-9: Notice Of Rates
9-2A-10: Access To Records
9-2A-11: Penalty
9-2A-1: BASIS FOR SEWER SERVICE CHARGES:
The sewer service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement and debt service; and a surcharge,
if applicable.
   A.   Basic User Charge:
      1.   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/l).
      2.   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and debt service and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         b.   Estimate the annual revenue required for debt service charges on
the outstanding revenue bonds.
         c.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible.
         d.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         e.   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids and BOD.
         f.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         g.   Compute surcharge costs per pound of BOD and SS in excess of
normal sewage strength.
   B.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal concentrations for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge
will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters
for all wastes which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and
two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) concentration for BOD and SS,
respectively. Subsection
9-2A-4A of this article specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
   C.   Annual Review Of Charges: The adequacy of the wastewater service charge
shall be reviewed annually by certified public accountants for the village in
their annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in debt service or a change in operation and
maintenance costs including replacement. (1995 Code § 7.201)
9-2A-2: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
   A.   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges, surcharges
and industrial cost recovery shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one hundred (100) gallons.
   B.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public water system, all
or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
Director of Public Works for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   C.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the Director of Public Works if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
   D.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Director of Public Works. (1995 Code § 7.202)
9-2A-3: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Basic User Rate: There shall be and there is hereby established a
minimum charge and a basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by
the wastewater facilities of the Village of Cerro Gordo.
      1.   Metered Users:
         a.   A minimum charge of six dollars forty one cents ($6.41) per month
shall be applied to all users whose water consumption does not exceed one
thousand (1,000) gallons per month.
         b.   A basic user rate of $0.040 per ten (10) gallons shall be applied
to all users for water consumption in excess of one thousand (1,000) gallons of
water per month.
      2.   Nonmetered Users:
         a.   All nonmetered residential users of the wastewater facilities
shall pay a minimum flat rate charge per month adequate to cover the minimum
service charge and the basic user rate of six dollars forty one cents ($6.41)
per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
         b.   The flat rate charge for nonmetered residential users shall be
computed by the Director of Public Works as follows:
            (1)   Determine the per capita residential usage for the previous
year for the Village of Cerro Gordo.
            (2)   Determine the number of persons to occupy the residence.
            (3)   Multiply the number of persons times the per capita
residential usage.
            (4)   Divide the usage obtained in this subsection A2b by twelve
(12) and apply the minimum charge of six dollars forty one cents ($6.41) for
the first one thousand (1,000) gallons. The basic user rate of $0.040 per ten
(10) gallons shall be applied for water consumption in excess of one thousand
(1,000) gallons per month.
            (5)   The flat rate monthly charge for nonmetered residential users
shall be the sum of the minimum charge and the charge for water consumption in
excess of ten (10) gallons per month.
            (6)   In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined
by the Director of Public Works to be in excess of ten thousand (10,000)
gallons per month, the Director of Public Works may require such flat rate user
to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer main to measure the
amount of service supplied.
   B.   Surcharge Rate: The rates for surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
         Unit BOD charge of $0.3260 per pound.
         Unit SS charge of $0.1982 per pound. (Ord. 636-2018, 5-21-2018, eff.
6-15-2018)
9-2A-4: COMPUTATION OF CHARGES:
   A.   Surcharges: The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges
shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as
often as may be deemed necessary by the director of public works and shall be
binding as a basis for surcharges.
      1.   The sewer surcharge shall be computed by the following formula:
 
        CS = ($0.2964 x B) + ($0.1802 x S)
          
Where: CS = Amount of surcharge ($)
      B  = BOD in pounds in excess of 200 mg/l
      S  = SS in pounds in excess of 250 mg/l
 
      2.   The BOD in pounds in excess of two hundred milligrams per liter (200
mg/l) or "B" shall be computed as follows:
 
         B = 0.00000834 Vu (BOD - 200)
           
Where: Vu  = Wastewater volume for the billing period
      BOD = Total BOD in mg/l from user as determined by waste sampling
 
      3.   The SS in pounds in excess of two hundred fifty milligrams per liter
(250 mg/l) or "S" shall be computed as follows:
 
        S = 0.00000834 Vu (SS - 250)
          
Where: Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period
      SS = Total SS in mg/l from user as determined by waste sampling
 
(1995 Code § 7.205)
   B.   Service Charge: The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the
following formula:
        CW = CM + (Vu-X)CU + CS
          
Where: CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period
      CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, replacement and debt
            service (subsection 9-2A-3A of this article)
      Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period
      X  = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (subsection
            9-2A-3A of this article)
      CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance, replacement and debt
            service (subsection 9-2A-3A of this article)
      CS = Amount of surcharge (subsection A of this section and subsection 9-
            2A-3B of this article)
 
(1995 Code § 7.206)
9-2A-5: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Liability For Rates And Charges: The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to
the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the village. (1995 Code § 7.224)
   B.   Monthly Bills; Payment; Late Charge: The rates or charges for sewer
service shall be payable monthly. The billing of the sewer service shall
commence upon connection of the user to the sewer. Bills for sewer service
shall be sent out by the village treasurer on the first day of the month
succeeding the period for which the service is billed. All sewer service bills
are due and payable ten (10) days after being sent out. A penalty of ten
percent (10%) shall be added to all bills not paid by the eleventh day after
they have been rendered. (1995 Code § 7.224; amd. 2012 Code)
9-2A-6: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Service: If the charges for such services are not
paid within ten (10) days after the rendition of the bill for such services,
such services shall be discontinued without further notice and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled. (1995 Code § 7.225; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Lien Claim: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for ninety
(90) days after it has been rendered, the village treasurer shall file with the
county recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount, as well as
for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill. If the user whose
bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the village treasurer has
notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his
address be known to the village treasurer, whenever such bill remains unpaid
for the period of sixty (60) days. The failure of the village treasurer to
record such lien or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive
such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills
as mentioned in subsection A of this section. (1995 Code § 7.226; amd. 2012
Code)
   C.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the village. The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid ninety (90) days after it has been rendered. (1995 Code §
7.227)
9-2A-7: REVENUES:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewer system
shall be deposited in the sewer fund. All such revenues and monies shall be
held by the village treasurer separate and apart from his private funds and
separate and apart from all other funds of the village, and all of said sum,
without any deduction whatever, shall be delivered to the village treasurer not
more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the village president and
board of trustees.
   B.   The village treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewer
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the "sewer fund of the village". The village treasurer shall
administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the
"revised cities and villages act", effective January 1942. (1995 Code § 7.228)
9-2A-8: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   B.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged. (1995 Code § 7.229)
9-2A-9: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this article, properly certified by the village treasurer, shall be
filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds and shall be deemed notice
to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of the
village on their properties. (1995 Code § 7.230)
9-2A-10: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois environmental protection agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village
which are applicable to the village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any state grant. (1995 Code § 7.232)
9-2A-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1995 Code § 7.231; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Compliance With Village Regulations
10-1-2: Administrative Officials
10-1-1: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE REGULATIONS:
The construction and/or development of any structure, mobile home park, public
improvement, fencing or subdivision will comply with provisions of this title,
the village zoning ordinance, the village subdivision ordinance, and other
applicable village ordinances and policies. (1995 Code § 4.101)
10-1-2: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
   A.   The village board shall be responsible for all planning activities
provided by ordinance and state statute. The building inspector, village
attorney, and director of public works shall provide advice and assistance for
planning and development activities when specified by ordinance, policy or by
direction of the village board.
   B.   The village board may retain the services of a licensed civil engineer
for advice and assistance when the board deems such services are needed with
planning, development, and construction activities with the village. (1995 Code
§ 4.102)
CHAPTER 2
SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Short Title
10-2-2: Jurisdiction And Scope
10-2-3: Purpose
10-2-4: Interpretation
10-2-5: Approval Procedure Generally
10-2-6: Action By Owner/Developer
10-2-7: Applications For Building Permits
10-2-8: Required Documents
10-2-9: Site Development Plan
10-2-10: Waivers
10-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, referred to and cited as the SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
OF THE VILLAGE OF CERRO GORDO, ILLINOIS. (1995 Code § 4.501)
10-2-2: JURISDICTION AND SCOPE:
This chapter shall govern all developments within the village of more than one
principal structure on a single, unsubdivided tract of land, commercial,
industrial, and multi-family structures. (1995 Code § 4.502)
10-2-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the development of any
tract of land with any structure, or altering any existing commercial,
industrial or multi-family structure, but excluding single-family structures,
and to regulate the manner of development so as to prevent serious hazards and
problems to the citizens of the community. Therefore, this chapter is
established in order to ensure proper development of the village and to promote
the public health, safety, convenience, prosperity, aesthetics and general
welfare of the community. (1995 Code § 4.503)
10-2-4: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be
held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in favor of
the village, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power
granted by the Illinois statutes. (1995 Code § 4.504)
10-2-5: APPROVAL PROCEDURE GENERALLY:
   A.   The village building inspector and director of public works shall meet
with developers and other parties wishing to submit site development plans to
explain the intent and regulations of this chapter. (1995 Code § 4.506)
   B.   Any person, corporation, firm or agent thereof intending to develop any
tract of land with more than one principal structure, or a commercial,
industrial or multi-family structure, shall proceed according to the steps
outlined in this chapter. (1995 Code § 4.507)
   C.   A site development plan consisting of a general layout plan shall be
eligible for review by the village board when the owner/developer has submitted
eight (8) copies of the layout plan. Engineering drawings may also be required.
(1995 Code § 4.508)
10-2-6: ACTION BY OWNER/DEVELOPER:
Upon approval of the site development plan by the village board, the owner/
developer or his contractor shall meet with the building inspector to receive
approval to start work on the public improvements within the site. During
construction, he shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   The contractor shall be duly certified and bonded by the village to
undertake such work, if required by the village board.
   B.   The owner/developer or his contractor shall also arrange for various
inspections of improvements to be made by the director of public works at
prearranged points during the course of construction as provided in this
chapter.
   C.   Upon completion of said improvements, the director of public works
shall make a final inspection of the work and shall submit to the village board
a full report on improvements. If the director finds that all improvements have
been constructed to the standards and designs set in the approved site
development plan, or if a bond, in proper legal form, has been submitted, then
the development is ready for applications for building permits. (1995 Code §
4.509)
10-2-7: APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS:
Upon certified completion of all public improvements, or upon submittal of a
bond for the completion of said improvements, building permits will be issued
when the normal application requirements are met and after the following
documentation has been submitted: (1995 Code § 4.510; amd. 2012 Code)
   A.   An approved site development plan.
   B.   Notarized certifications, by owner or owners and by mortgagor or
lienholder of record, acknowledging the dedication of streets and other public
areas.
   C.   A notice from the village stating that the following have been filed
and approved by the same: A certificate by the director of public works that
all the improvements and installations to the site required for its approval
have been made or installed in accordance with the specifications. (1995 Code §
4.510)
10-2-8: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
All plats, plans, maps, surveys, certificates, owner's declarations,
engineering specifications and restrictive covenants to be filed for action of
the village board shall be prepared in accordance with the regulations
contained in this chapter. (1995 Code § 4.511)
10-2-9: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Formal applications for site development approval requires submittal of
a plan prepared at the size of twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36") (1 or more sheets) and at a graphic scale as appropriate.
   B.   The "layout plan" shall consist of one or more sheets including
information of a more general nature, including, but not limited to, the
following: legal description; placement and size of all public utilities and
improvements; easements and dedications; drainage; parking and circulation;
location and size of all buildings; and units per building.
   C.   The "engineering drawings", if required, shall consist of one or more
sheets including those specific details of the plan not already included on the
required "layout plan". (1995 Code § 4.512)
   D.   Each submitted plan shall provide the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the owner/developer.
      2.   An area map, highlighting the proposed site.
      3.   A north arrow and the engineer's scale.
      4.   The name and seal of the registered engineer and land surveyor.
      5.   The legal description, street address, zoning, lot dimension, total
acreage, and property lines of the proposed development. This must include
existing and/or proposed street and alley rights of way and easements and any
other legal interest in the land being developed.
      6.   All existing topographic features, including, but not limited to,
driveways, pavements, curb and gutters, sidewalks, drainage structures, utility
lines and appurtenances aboveground and belowground, parking areas and
structures (including use) and shall be shown with appropriate dimensions
given. Existing drainage shall be clearly indicated by contour lines, or in the
case of a flat parcel, by adequate spot elevations. The existing topographic
features shown shall include enough of the surrounding areas to clearly
establish the proposed development's impact and effect thereon. All elevation
data shall refer to the United States geological North American datum, mean sea
level elevation. All proposed contour lines shall be clearly indicated.
      7.   Dimensions of all required yard setbacks (see village zoning
ordinance).
      8.   Required off street parking and loading spaces (see village zoning
ordinance). If parking and loading is computed other than by means of the gross
floor area ratio, so state respective data on plot plans.
      9.   The parking and loading area and entrances shall be shown and shall
conform to the applicable ordinances of the village. The plan shall clearly
indicate the area to be surfaced and type of surface material for parking and
the landscaping proposed for any setback area.
      10.   All parking and loading areas in nonresidential zones adjoining
residential premises shall be screened in conformance with the zoning
ordinance.
      11.   The proposed building or buildings shall have the following
information clearly indicated:
         a.   Basement and/or first floor grade given in actual sea level
elevation.
         b.   All proposed utility service lines including size, type, proposed
connection points and grade where applicable.
         c.   The building or buildings shall be dimensioned relative to size
and proximity to lot lines and adjacent structures.
         d.   The method of disposing of roof water and/or subsurface water
shall be clearly shown.
      12.   Proposed drainage for the development shall conform to the
requirements set forth in the zoning and subdivision ordinances and shall be
shown in detail on the plan. All ditches, drainage swales, storm sewers,
drainage structures, headwalls, and other drainage appurtenances shall be shown
including size, length, types, flow line elevations, etc.
      13.   Whether proposed as public or private, any proposed street and/or
alley widening or surfacing, new curbs, gutters, sidewalks, etc., shall also be
shown in detail on the plan.
      14.   Proposed sewage disposal facilities shall be shown indicating
location of septic tanks, distribution boxes and subsurface tile disposal
fields, if a sanitary sewer is not available. Absorption areas of the disposal
fields shall be shown, based on percolation tests taken at the site, in
accordance with the state of Illinois plumbing code.
      15.   Site data including total acres, number of buildings and dwelling
units, site dimension and area, linear feet in streets, acres in streets,
parking lots and similar public or semipublic areas.
      16.   Cross sections of proposed streets, alleys, crosswalks, parking
lots, etc., and a profile of each with proposed grades, existing drainage
courses, watershed area and structures, width or roadway surfacing, curbs,
planting strips, curb openings, streetlights and traffic signals.
      17.   Complete construction plans for utilities including water, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, and other facilities, if applicable.
      18.   A "drainage certificate", signed by the owner and a registered
professional engineer, to the effect that the drainage of surface waters will
not be adversely affected by the development, or that if change does occur,
adequate provision has been made to protect adjoining property owners from
damages which might result from such change in drainage.
      19.   Certification to the fact that "no part of the property covered by
this plat or subdivision is situated within 500 feet of any drainage course or
watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more". (1995 Code § 4.513)
10-2-10: WAIVERS:
The village board may waive any requirements of this chapter, upon request, by
a majority vote of four (4) members. (1995 Code § 4.514)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE LIMITS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Boundaries
10-3-2: Construction Permit Required
10-3-3: Construction Requirements And Restrictions
10-3-4: Nuisance Conditions
10-3-5: Penalty
10-3-1: BOUNDARIES:
All that part of the village included within the following boundaries:
beginning at the intersection of the center line of Jefferson Street and the
center line of Wait Street in said village and running thence North on the
center line of said Jefferson Street, to the intersection thereof with the
center line of North Street; thence East on the center line of said North
Street to the intersection thereof with the center line of Monroe Street;
thence South on the center line of said Monroe Street to the intersection
thereof with the center line of Wait Street; thence West, on said center line
of Wait Street, to the place of beginning, is hereby fixed, designated and
established as the fire limits of the village. (1995 Code § 4.301)
10-3-2: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED:
The owner or person desiring to repair, erect or construct any building or
structure within the fire limits of the village, as prescribed in section
10-3-1 of this chapter, shall make application in writing to the building
inspector for such permit and therewith submit the plans and specifications of
such proposed building or structure and shall file a copy thereof with the
village clerk. In case a permit shall be issued on such application, any
departure from said plans and specifications in the repair or construction of
such building or structure shall annul and forfeit the permit and make such
owner liable to the fines and penalties provided by this chapter in the same
manner as if no permit had been issued. (1995 Code § 4.303)
10-3-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No wooden building or any building constructed of inflammable material
shall be erected, constructed or repaired within the territory described in
section
10-3-1 of this chapter. (1995 Code § 4.302)
   B.   No permit shall be given for the erection or construction, within the
fire limits as prescribed by section
10-3-1 of this chapter, of any building or structure of any kind or
description, unless the outside and party walls thereof shall be composed
entirely of brick, stone, iron, or other incombustible material, with the
outside walls not less than thirteen inches (13") in thickness; provided, that
if any such building or structure shall be more than two (2) stories in height,
exclusive of basement, the outside walls above such second story may be not
less than nine inches (9") in thickness.
   C.   Provisions of subsection B of this section may be modified or deleted
as to any particular building if, in the opinion of two-thirds (2/3) of the
trustees entitled to vote, a modification or deletion would be for the best
interest of the village. Said vote shall be recorded by yeas and nays. (1995
Code § 4.304)
10-3-4: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
When any building located within the fire limits shall deteriorate or become
damaged by fire, decay or otherwise, to the extent of sixty percent (60%) of
its value, such building may be condemned by the village board and deemed to be
a nuisance. Notice of said nuisance shall be given to the owner of said
building by the village clerk, and if said building is not renovated or rebuilt
within one year after said notice, then the owner of the building shall be in
violation of this chapter. (1995 Code §§ 4.305, 4.306; amd. 2012 Code)
10-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each and every day any condemned
building or structure that is adjudged a nuisance according to the provisions
of this chapter remains unremoved and not abated, after the expiration of a
period of one year mentioned in section
10-3-4 of this chapter, shall be deemed and held to be a separate and distinct
violation of this chapter and be punished accordingly. (1995 Code § 4.307; amd.
2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING NUMBERS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Numbers Required; Plan
10-4-2: Chart
10-4-3: Specifications
10-4-4: Penalty
10-4-1: NUMBERS REQUIRED; PLAN:
All lots, buildings and structures in the village shall be numbered in
accordance with the following plan:
   A.   North and south numbers shall commence at South Street.
   B.   East and west numbers shall commence at Jefferson Street.
   C.   Odd numbers shall be on the south and west sides of the streets.
   D.   Even numbers shall be on the north and east sides of the streets.
   E.   The numbers shall commence with one hundred (100), and there shall be
one number to every thirty three feet (33') of frontage. (1995 Code § 4.201)
10-4-2: CHART:
The village clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper number or numbers of
every lot in the village, which shall be open to inspection by anyone
interested. (1995 Code § 4.202)
10-4-3: SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every house, building or
structure in the village to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the
street, figures at least two and one-half inches (21/2") high showing the
number of the house, building, or structure. (1995 Code § 4.203)
10-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation failing to so number any house, building or
structure owned or occupied by such person, firm or corporation or, after
receiving notice to do so from the clerk, shall continue in such failure to so
number such house, building or structure, shall be fined one dollar ($1.00) for
each day during or on which a failure to so number continues. (1995 Code §
4.204)
CHAPTER 5
FENCES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Definitions
10-5-2: Height
10-5-3: Location
10-5-4: Prohibited Materials
10-5-5: Penalty
10-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
FENCE: Any structure that is used to separate one parcel of land from another,
whether made of wood, metal or other materials, or a combination of other
materials, and shall include a gate or other device in the fence for entering
or leaving.
SEE THROUGH FENCE: A fence that, from the ground level to the top level, is so
made that the construction materials of the fence do not obstruct the view in
any one direction. (1995 Code § 4.401)
10-5-2: HEIGHT:
A fence shall in no case be higher than ten feet (10') above ground elevation.
(Ord. 486, 8-16-2004)
10-5-3: LOCATION:
   A.   No fence shall be placed nearer than twelve feet (12') from the front
property line unless said fence is a see through fence.
   B.   In the event of a driveway, or any portion of land that abuts on a
village street, no fence may be nearer than twelve feet (12') from the front,
side or back lot lines unless said fence is a see through fence.
   C.   In no case shall a fence be placed outside property lines and on
village rights of way. (1995 Code § 4.403)
10-5-4: PROHIBITED MATERIALS:
   A.   A fence shall not be constructed of barbed wire or any other materials
that would cause injury to persons or animals.
   B.   A fence shall not have any electrical charge or be in any manner hooked
to an electrical device including, but not limited to, a battery which could
cause electrical shock.
   C.   A fence shall not be made of a single wire or other material so that a
person or animal could be decapitated or have a limb or other parts of the body
severed.
   D.   A fence shall not be pointed at the top. (1995 Code § 4.404)
10-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subjected to a fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1995 Code § 4.405; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Definitions
10-6-2: Location Of Mobile Home
10-6-3: Construction Field Office
10-6-4: Licensing Requirements
10-6-5: Compliance With Provisions
10-6-6: Site Plan Requirements
10-6-7: Design And Construction Requirements
10-6-8: Mobile Home Stands
10-6-9: Register Of Owners And Occupants
10-6-10: Rules And Regulations
10-6-11: Penalties
10-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building subordinate to and smaller than the principal
building, the use of which is incidental to, or customarily found in connection
with, and, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, is located on the same
premises, and contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of the
occupants of the principal building or mobile home, or contributes to the
operation of the principal use of the lot.
CONSTRUCTION FIELD OFFICE: A mobile home used as an on site, temporary office
for a construction project.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled, completely integrated structure designed for
permanent habitation, with a permanent chassis, and so constructed to permit
its transport on wheels temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, and
is a movable or portable unit that is: a) eight (8) body feet or more in width;
b) forty (40) body feet or more in length; and c) three hundred twenty (320) or
more square feet, constructed to be towed on its own chassis (comprised of
frame and wheels) from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is installed, and set up according to the
manufacturer's instructions, and connected to utilities for year round
occupancy for use as a permanent habitation, and designed and situated so as to
permit its occupancy as a dwelling place for one or more persons. The term
shall include units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, or
telescoped when being towed, and that may be joined into one integral unit
capable of being separated again for repeated towing. Campers and recreational
vehicles do not constitute mobile homes.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A parcel of land within a mobile home park designed for
exclusive use of the occupants of the mobile home placed on the lot.
MOBILE HOME STAND: The portion off a mobile home lot which is designed and
reserved for the placement of a mobile home.
PARKING SPACE: A surface area of at least two hundred (200) square feet located
on the same lot as the building, mobile home, or use it is intended to serve,
and of such shape as to be suitable for parking or storing motor vehicles. The
area is exclusive of driveways which give convenient access between the parking
space and a street serving the lot.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side lot
lines, and between the main building or any projections thereof, other than the
projections of uncovered steps, uncovered balconies, terraces, or uncovered
porches. On corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of the lot between the side lot
lines, and between the rear lot line and the rear of the main building, or any
projection other than steps, unenclosed porches, or entranceways.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the primary building and the side line of the lot,
and extending from the required front yard to the required rear yard, and being
the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the
primary building or any projection thereof. (1995 Code § 4.601; amd. 2012 Code)
10-6-2: LOCATION OF MOBILE HOME:
No mobile home shall be located, placed, maintained, inhabited or occupied
within the village other than in a mobile home park licensed under the
provisions of this chapter or except as provided in the village zoning
ordinance, as amended. (1995 Code § 4.602)
10-6-3: CONSTRUCTION FIELD OFFICE:
A construction field office may be temporarily placed at a construction site
while such project is in progress and may include facilities for night
watchmen, but the same shall not be used, temporarily or otherwise, as a
residence or habitation and shall be removed upon completion of construction.
(1995 Code § 4.603)
10-6-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall establish,
maintain, conduct or operate a mobile home park within the corporate limits of
the village without first obtaining a license therefor issued by the village
clerk. (1995 Code § 4.604)
   B.   Application For License: Application for an original license shall be
made to the village clerk and shall consist of the following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant or applicants; and the names
and addresses of all partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the names
and addresses of all officers and directors, if the applicant is a corporation.
      2.   The legal description and common address of any of the tract of land
upon which it is proposed to operate and maintain a mobile home park.
      3.   As built plans of the proposed mobile home park in conformance with
the requirements of section
10-6-7 of this chapter as certified by a registered professional engineer,
together with copies of the site plan submitted in conformance with the
provision of subsection
10-6-6C of this chapter for those portions of said park, if any, remaining
unimproved or uncompleted at the time of application.
      4.   The annual license fee required by subsection E of this section.
      5.   An affidavit of the applicant or applicants, as the case may be, as
to the truth of the matters contained in the application. (1995 Code § 4.606)
   C.   Expiration Of License: Mobile home park licenses issued under the
provisions hereof shall expire on April 30 of the year for which the same are
issued. (1995 Code § 4.605)
   D.   Renewal Or Transfer Of License: Application for a renewal or a transfer
of a license shall be made to the village clerk and shall consist of that which
is required under subsections B1, B2, B4 and B5 of this section, together with
a certification by the village building inspector that said mobile home park is
in conformance with the provisions of subsection
10-6-7 of this chapter; provided, that an application for a transfer of a
license shall be accompanied by the license transfer fee required by subsection
E of this section and not the annual license fee. (1995 Code § 4.607)
   E.   License Fees: The annual fee for a mobile home park license shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00). The license transfer fee for a mobile home park license
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (1995 Code § 4.608; amd. 2012 Code)
   F.   Revocation Or Suspension Of License: The village president may suspend
or revoke a mobile home park license for failure to comply with the rules and
regulations established herein or published or promulgated pursuant to the
authority granted herein or any other applicable codes or ordinances of the
village. Such suspension or revocation may take place only after the licensee
has been given written notice warning of possible suspension or revocation and
a hearing, if requested by the licensee, before the village president. Such
request for a hearing must be made within five (5) days of receipt of such
written notice. (1995 Code § 4.609)
10-6-5: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to own, operate or maintain a mobile home
park in violation of the rules, regulations and requirements established by
this chapter. (1995 Code § 4.610)
10-6-6: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Plan Required: No person, firm or corporation shall lay out, establish,
develop, improve, construct, substantially alter, extend or enlarge a mobile
home park in the village, unless and until a site plan of said mobile home park
has been approved by the village board. (1995 Code § 4.611)
   B.   Submission Of Plan; Fee: Three (3) copies of all mobile home park site
plans required by the provisions hereof shall be submitted to the village,
together with a reviewing fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (1995
Code § 4.612; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Contents And Specifications: Mobile home park site plans shall be in
such scale, detail and format as may reasonably be required by the village to
enable the village to administer the provisions hereof and, at a minimum, shall
show the layout, location, relationship, grades, contours and dimensions of all
property lines, lots, buildings, streets, sidewalks, utilities, drains, surface
water drainage, parking facilities, drives, easements, fire hydrants, area
lighting, and other improvements and structures all in conformance as near as
may be with those provisions of a similar nature to the village subdivision
regulations. (1995 Code § 4.613)
   D.   Approval Of Plan: The approval of the mobile home park site plan shall
constitute authority to lay out, establish, develop, improve, construct,
substantially alter, extend or enlarge such mobile home park in accordance with
the site plan thereof approved; however, no mobile home may be placed on any
lot within said park, or if developed in phases, on any lot within any phase
thereof, until as built plans, certified by a registered professional engineer,
have been filed with the village president. (1995 Code § 4.614)
10-6-7: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All mobile home parks located with the village, and all site plans of mobile
home parks required by the provisions hereof, shall meet the minimum standards
of design and construction imposed by the following provisions: (1995 Code §
4.615)
   A.   Acreage: A mobile home park site shall contain five (5) or more acres.
(1995 Code § 4.616)
   B.   Recreation Area: Not less than five percent (5%) of the total site area
of a mobile home park shall be developed for outdoor recreational purposes
either as a single unit or by division into separate units of not less than two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet. (1995 Code § 4.618)
   C.   Lot And Placement Requirements:
      1.   Lot Size: Mobile home lots shall contain not less than three
thousand six hundred (3,600) square feet and be not less than forty feet (40')
in width and ninety feet (90') in depth. (1995 Code § 4.619)
      2.   Minimum Yards: Mobile homes shall be placed on mobile home lots so
as to provide a minimum front yard of fifteen feet (15') and minimum rear and
side yards of eight feet (8'). (1995 Code § 4.620)
      3.   Distance From Perimeter Line: No mobile home shall be placed within
twenty five feet (25') of any perimeter line of a mobile home park site. (1995
Code § 4.617)
      4.   Parking Spaces: Not less than two (2) paved off street parking
spaces shall be provided and maintained on each mobile home lot. (1995 Code §
4.621)
   D.   Water And Sewer Systems:
      1.   Central Sewer And Water Systems: Central sewer and water systems
constructed and maintained to village standards and specifications for village
water mains and sewer mains shall be provided by mobile home parks, and said
systems shall be connected to the village systems. (1995 Code § 4.622)
      2.   Individual Sewer And Water Services: Each mobile home located in a
mobile home park shall be connected to the central sewer and water systems of
said park through individual services for each mobile home lot. (1995 Code §
4.623)
      3.   Sewer Service Construction: Sewer service in mobile home parks shall
be so constructed so as to be free from freezing and so as to be conveniently
closed or plugged when not connected to a mobile home and shall be so closed or
plugged when not so connected. (1995 Code § 4.624)
      4.   Water Service Construction: Water services in mobile home parks
shall be so constructed as to be free from freezing and shall have an
individual shutoff valve so located and constructed as to be conveniently
operable and so as not to permit siphoning of surface water or other drainage
or contaminant into the water service or system. (1995 Code § 4.625)
   E.   Electricity: Each mobile home lot shall be provided with electricity.
(1995 Code § 4.626)
   F.   Drainage: All mobile home park sites shall be drained of surface water
by the installation of systems of drains and drainways that are in accord with
customarily accepted good engineering drainage practices. (1995 Code § 4.627)
   G.   Access: Each mobile home lot shall abut and have direct access to an
internal mobile home park street, and no such lot shall abut or have direct
access to a public or other street or way external or peripheral to said park.
(1995 Code § 4.628)
   H.   Streets And Sidewalks:
      1.   Internal Streets: Internal mobile home park streets shall be paved
and maintained to a width of twenty eight feet (28') with such geometries as to
permit convenient travel thereon of fire suppression equipment. (1995 Code §
4.629)
      2.   Sidewalks: A sidewalk shall be constructed and maintained on at
least one side of every street in a mobile home park. (1995 Code § 4.630)
      3.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sac streets in mobile home parks shall not
exceed two hundred fifty feet (250') in length and shall have a minimum
turnaround radius of forty feet (40'). (1995 Code § 4.631)
   I.   Fire Hydrants: Mobile home parks shall provide fire hydrants in
compliance with village standards and specifications which shall be maintained
in good working order at locations directed by the fire chief of the Cerro
Gordo fire protection district and the director of public works. (1995 Code §
4.632)
10-6-8: MOBILE HOME STANDS:
   A.   Mobile home stands shall be located, constructed and maintained in such
manner that placement and removal of a mobile home is conveniently practical
and shall be so graded and drained that surface water does not collect or stand
under any mobile home thereon.
   B.   Mobile home stands shall be constructed of portland cement concrete not
less than five inches (5") thick and so that when properly located and blocked,
each longitudinal frame member for the entire length thereof is supported by a
slab or runway not less than two feet (2') wide. (1995 Code § 4.633)
   C.   Each mobile home stand shall be provided with tie down anchors which,
at a minimum, comply with the promulgated rules and regulations of the Illinois
department of public health under the Illinois mobile home tie-down act. (1995
Code § 4.634)
10-6-9: REGISTER OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
Mobile home park licensees under the provisions hereof shall maintain a
register listing both current owners and occupants of all mobile homes within
the park and all owners and occupants for any mobile home lot within such park
for the six (6) years last past. Such register shall be made available to
officers or agents of the village upon request. (1995 Code § 4.635; amd. 2012
Code)
10-6-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The village president is hereby authorized to cause to be established,
promulgated, published and enforced such reasonable rules, regulations, and
procedures, not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, as may to said
officer appear to be necessary or convenient to administer the provisions of
this chapter and to carry out the purpose and intent hereof. (1995 Code §
4.636)
10-6-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine: Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1995 Code § 4.638;
amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Other Remedies: The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall
not preclude the institution of appropriate actions to prevent or abate any
unlawful establishment, operation or enlargement of any mobile home park. (1995
Code § 4.639)
CHAPTER 7
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Definitions
10-7-3: Unlawful Practices
10-7-4: Exemptions
10-7-5: Procedure
10-7-6: Other Remedies; Complaints
10-7-7: Violations
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village, in the exercise of its
police power for the public safety, public health and general welfare, to
assure equal opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing facilities
regardless of race, color, religion, sex or national origin and, to that end,
to prohibit discrimination in housing by any persons. (Ord. 658-2020, 6-15-
2020)
10-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
DISCRIMINATION or DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: Any difference in treatment
based upon race, color, religion, sex or national origin; or any act that is
unlawful under this chapter.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Includes any person, as defined herein, engaged in the
business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION or DWELLING: Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended for
occupancy, as a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land which is
offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such
building, mobile home or trailer, structure or portion thereof or any real
property, as defined herein, used or intended to be used for any of the
purposes set forth in section
10-7-1 of this chapter.
MORTGAGE BROKER: An individual who is engaged in or who performs the business
or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by state statutes.
OPEN MARKET: The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed
through a real estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs or by any
other advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof,
indicating that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental or lease.
OWNER: Includes a lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
PERSON: Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint ventures,
partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries,
corporations and all other groups or combinations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON: Includes any individual,
qualified by law, who, for a fee, commission, salary or for other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting same, lists, sells, purchases, rents or leases any housing
accommodations, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate such activities; or who advertises or holds himself or herself out as
engaged in such activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan,
secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing
accommodation; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract, whereby he
or she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation through its listing in the publication issued primarily for such
purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives and condominiums. (Ord. 658-2020, 6-15-2020)
10-7-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, it shall
be unlawful within the village for a person, owner, financial institution, real
estate broker or real estate salesperson, or any representative of the above,
to:
   A.   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   B.   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, or in the
furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
   C.   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   D.   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   E.   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing
accommodation, because of his or her race, color, religion or national origin,
sex or place of birth;
   F.   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination;
   G.   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing accommodation
for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a person may be
subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale, purchase, rental or
lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
   H.   To induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex or
national origin or place of birth in the area to be affected by such sale,
purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      1.   The lowering of property values in the area;
      2.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      3.   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   I.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area in
the village for the purpose of including or attempting to induce any such
listing or any of the above transactions;
   J.   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental or
lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation;
   K.   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he
or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner
in any investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter;
   L.   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued
thereunder;
   M.   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter;
   N.   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sex or place of birth;
   O.   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other
corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in whole
or in part, in the matter of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or
other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or conditions of such loans or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, sex or national origin of
such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; and/or
   P.   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in other terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex or national origin. (Ord. 658-2020, 6-15-2020)
10-7-4: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   A religious organization, association or society or any non-profit
institution or organization operating, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, which limits
the sale, rental or occupancy, of dwellings which it owns or operates for other
than commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which gives
preference to such persons, unless membership in such a religion is restricted
on account of race, color, sex or national origin;
   B.   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of such lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members;
   C.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that, such
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale of any such
single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house
prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (C) shall apply only
with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month period;
   provided further that, such bona fide private individual owner does not own
any interest in, nor is there owned or served on his or her behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, the sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented:
      1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson or person; and
      2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 U.S.C. §
3604(c) or of section
10-7-3 of this chapter; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   D.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence. (Ord. 658-2020, 6-15-2020)
10-7-5: PROCEDURE:
Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this chapter may
file a complaint with the Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the
aggrieved person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice and in no event
more than sixty (60) days after the alleged unlawful practice occurred. The
Village Clerk or his or her duly appointed representative shall investigate
each complaint and attempt to resolve each complaint. Failure to achieve a
resolution acceptable to both parties and compliance with this chapter shall
cause the Village Clerk to forward the complaint or her and his findings to
appropriate state and federal officials. (Ord. 658-2020, 6-15-2020)
10-7-6: OTHER REMEDIES; COMPLAINTS:
Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person from exercising any right or
seeking any remedy to which he or she might be otherwise entitled or from
filing his or her complaint with any appropriate governmental agency. (Ord.
658-2020, 6-15-2020)
10-7-7: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided by law. (Ord. 658-2020, 6-15-2020)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTERPRETATION AND VALIDITY
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Interpretation
11-1-3: Validity
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-1-2: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of a district
as shown on the district map, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless
otherwise shown, and where the district designated on the district map is
bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the street or alley shall be
construed to be such boundary.
      2.   Where the district boundary is not otherwise indicated, and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, such
boundary shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the district
designated on the district map is bounded approximately by lot lines, such lot
lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts unless otherwise
indicated on the map.
      3.   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary shall be determined
by use of the scale appearing on the map.
   B.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare. It is
not intended by this title to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; provided, however,
that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or land, or upon height of buildings, or requires a larger open space or yard
than is imposed or required by other ordinances, rules, or regulations, or by
easements, covenants, or agreements between parties, the provisions of this
title shall govern. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-1-3: VALIDITY:
Should any section, provision, part or clause of this title be declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of this title as a whole or any part thereof other than the part
so declared to be invalid. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular;
the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are defined as follows:
                                   A subordinate building or a portion of the
                                   main building located on the same lot as
                                   the main building, the use of which is
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE:         incidental to that of the main building,
                                   or to the main use of the lot. An
                                   accessory use is one which is incidental
                                   to the main use of a building or land.
                                   An establishment having as a substantial
                                   or significant portion of its business the
                                   sale, rental, display, exhibition, or
                                   viewing of books, magazines, films,
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITY:      photographs, sexual paraphernalia or other
                                   materials distinguished by or
                                   characterized by an emphasis on matter
                                   depicting, describing, or relating to
                                   sexual conduct or specified anatomical
                                   areas as defined herein.
                                   A nightclub, theater, or other
                                   establishment that features live
                                   performances by topless and/or bottomless
                                   dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers,
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET:       strippers or similar entertainers where
                                   such performances are distinguished by or
                                   characterized by an emphasis on sexual
                                   conduct of specified anatomical areas as
                                   defined herein.
                                   Sex-related or oriented establishments
                                   providing adult services, products, or
                                   entertainment, including but not limited
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USE:           to adult entertainment activity, adult
                                   entertainment cabinet, model studios,
                                   adult picture arcades or adult areas as
                                   defined herein.
                                   An establishment, other than an adult
                                   picture arcade, as an enclosed building
                                   wherein slides or movies are presented for
                                   observation by patrons for a substantial
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER:      or significant portion of its
                                   presentations because the same contain
                                   material distinguished or characterized by
                                   emphasis on matters depicting, describing
                                   or relating to sexual conduct or specified
                                   anatomical areas as defined herein.
                                   Any place to which the public is permitted
                                   or invited where coin- or token-operated
                                   or electronically, electrically or
                                   mechanically controlled still or motion
                                   picture machines, projectors, video
ADULT PICTURE ARCADE:              cassette recorders or players or other
                                   image producing devices are maintained to
                                   show images so displaying that are
                                   distinguished or characterized by emphasis
                                   on matters depicting, describing, or
                                   relating to sexual conduct or specified
                                   anatomical areas as defined herein.
                                   An adult-use cannabis cultivation center,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS        craft grower, processing organization,
ESTABLISHMENT:                     infuser organization, dispensing
                                   organization or transporting organization.
                                   A facility operated by an organization or
                                   business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                   Department of Financial and Professional
                                   Regulation to acquire cannabis from
                                   licensed cannabis business establishments
                                   for the purpose of selling or dispensing
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING      cannabis, cannabis-infused products,
ORGANIZATION:                      cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                   supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                   registered medical cannabis patients and
                                   caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                   and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be
                                   amended from time to time, and regulations
                                   promulgated thereunder.
                                   All of the property on one side of a
BLOCK FRONT:                       street between two (2) intersecting
                                   streets.
                                   Any structure, including a roof supported
                                   by walls, designed or intended for the
                                   support, enclosure, shelter or protection
                                   of persons, animals, chattels or property
                                   and forming a construction that is safe
BUILDING:                          and stable. Buildings shall include, but
                                   not be limited to, decks, covered and
                                   uncovered porches and decks or platform
                                   structures erected around all or a portion
                                   of a swimming pool. The word "building"
                                   shall include the word "structure".
                                   The vertical distance from the grade
                                   (elevation of the curb, sidewalk or
                                   average elevation of the ground around the
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF:               structure) to the highest point of the
                                   coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line
                                   of a mansard roof, or the mean height
                                   level between the eaves and ridge for
                                   gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
                                   An establishment where patients who are
                                   not lodged overnight are admitted for
CLINIC:                            examination and treatment by two (2) or
                                   more dentists or physicians practicing
                                   together.
                                   A section or sections of the village of
                                   Cerro Gordo for which the regulations
DISTRICT:                          governing the use of buildings and
                                   premises, the height of buildings, the
                                   size of yards, and intensity of use are
                                   uniform.
                                   Any building or portion thereof designed
DWELLING:                          for or used exclusively for residential
                                   purposes but not including hotels, motels,
                                   motor courts or mobile homes.
DWELLING, SINGLE- FAMILY:          A building designed for or used
                                   exclusively by one family as a residence.
                                   A room or group of rooms within a dwelling
DWELLING UNIT:                     and forming a single habitable unit with
                                   permanent facilities for living, sleeping
                                   and cooking.
                                   A place where the county fair is held and
                                   may also be utilized as a meeting place
                                   for social, fraternal, civic, public and
                                   similar organizations; utilized as an
                                   event venue for spectator and nonspectator
                                   outdoor and indoor events and activities,
                                   including, but not limited to, equestrian
                                   events and shows, sporting events,
                                   concerts, tractor pulls, demolition
FAIRGROUNDS:                       derbies, mud bogs/races, monster truck
                                   races and competitions, auto shows,
                                   circuses, pageants, rodeos, go-cart
                                   racing, livestock shows, trade shows,
                                   festivals, arts and crafts shows, and
                                   related fundraising for charitable or
                                   nonprofit activities, family reunions,
                                   wedding receptions, educational seminars,
                                   and community related agricultural and
                                   educational activities; and utilized as a
                                   farmers' market.
                                   One or more persons each related to the
                                   other by blood, marriage or adoption, or a
                                   group of not more than three (3) persons
FAMILY:                            not so related, maintaining a common
                                   household in a dwelling unit. Domestic
                                   servants and gratuitous guests residing
                                   with a family shall not be considered to
                                   be members of the family.
                                   An area which is used for the growing of
                                   the usual farm products such as
                                   vegetables, fruit, trees, and grain, and
                                   their storage on the area, as well as for
                                   the raising thereon of the usual farm
                                   animals and poultry only for the use or
                                   consumption by the person or persons
                                   operating the farm. The term "farming"
FARM:                              includes the operation of such an area for
                                   one or more of the above uses, including
                                   the necessary accessory uses for treating
                                   or storing the produce; provided, however,
                                   that the operation of any accessory uses
                                   shall be secondary to that of the normal
                                   farming activities; and provided further,
                                   that farming does not include the feeding
                                   of garbage or offal to swine or other
                                   animals.
                                   Any building, structure, or land used for
                                   the dispensing, sale or offering for sale
                                   at retail of any automobile fuels, oils or
                                   accessories, including lubrication of
                                   automobiles and replacement or
FILLING STATION:                   installation of minor parts and
                                   accessories, but not including major
                                   repair work such as motor replacement,
                                   body and fender repair or spray painting.
                                   When such services are incidental to the
                                   conduct of a public garage, the use shall
                                   be classified as a public garage.
                                   The sum of the gross horizontal areas of
                                   all floors of a building measured from the
                                   exterior faces of the exterior walls or
FLOOR AREA:                        from the centerline of walls separating
                                   buildings but not including cellar or
                                   basement space not used for business or
                                   commerce.
                                   An accessory building which is designed or
                                   used for the storage of not more than
                                   three (3) motor driven vehicles which are
                                   the property of and for the private use of
GARAGE, PRIVATE:                   the occupants of the lot on which the
                                   private garage is located. Not more than
                                   one of the vehicles may be a commercial
                                   vehicle of not more than three (3) tons'
                                   capacity.
                                   A building or portion thereof, other than
GARAGE, PUBLIC:                    a private garage, designed or used for
                                   equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring,
                                   selling or storing motor driven vehicles.
                                   Any occupation or profession carried on by
                                   a member of a family residing on the
                                   premises, provided no commodity is sold
HOME OCCUPATION:                   thereon, no person is employed other than
                                   such member of the family, and no
                                   mechanical equipment is used except such
                                   as is ordinarily used for domestic
                                   purposes.
                                   A building in which lodging, or lodging
                                   and meals, are regularly provided or
                                   offered to the public for compensation,
HOTEL:                             and which is customarily open to transient
                                   guests, and in which ingress and egress to
                                   and from all rooms is made through an
                                   inside lobby or office.
                                   An open area where waste, used or
                                   secondhand materials, used or secondhand
                                   motor vehicles, machinery or implements
                                   are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
JUNKYARD:                          baled, packed, disassembled, or handled;
                                   including, but not limited to, scrap iron
                                   and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
                                   tires, and bottles. A junkyard includes an
                                   auto wrecking yard.
                                   A parcel of land occupied or intended for
                                   occupancy by a use permitted in this
                                   title, including one main building,
LOT:                               together with its accessory buildings, the
                                   open spaces and parking spaces required by
                                   this title, and having its principal
                                   frontage upon a street.
LOT, CORNER:                       A lot abutting upon two (2) or more
                                   streets at their intersection.
                                   A property boundary line of any lot held
                                   in single or separate ownership; except,
LOT LINE:                          that where any portion of the lot extends
                                   into an abutting street or alley, the lot
                                   line shall be deemed to be the street or
                                   alley line.
                                   The boundary of a lot which is along a
                                   street; except, that on corner lots, the
   Front Lot Line:              front lot line shall be deemed along the
                                   street upon which the lot has its least
                                   dimension.
   Rear Lot Line:               The boundary of a lot at the opposite end
                                   of the lot from the front lot line.
   Side Lot Line:               Any boundary of a lot which is not a front
                                   or rear lot line.
                                   A lot which is part of a subdivision, the
                                   map of which has been recorded in the
                                   office of the recorder of deeds of Piatt
                                   County prior to the effective date hereof;
                                   or a parcel of land, the deed of which was
LOT OF RECORD:                     recorded in the office of the recorder of
                                   deeds of Piatt County prior to the
                                   effective date hereof. Recordings above
                                   shall be in the county where property
                                   lies, and if property lies in both
                                   counties, then said recording shall be in
                                   both counties.
                                   A factory assembled, completely integrated
                                   structure designed for permanent
                                   habitation, with a permanent chassis, and
                                   so constructed to permit its transport, on
                                   wheels temporarily or permanently attached
                                   to its frame, and is a movable or portable
                                   unit that is: a) eight (8) body feet or
                                   more in width; b) forty (40) body feet or
                                   more in length; and c) three hundred
                                   twenty (320) or more square feet,
                                   constructed to be towed on its own chassis
                                   (comprised of frame and wheels) from the
                                   place of its construction to the location,
MANUFACTURED HOME:                 or subsequent locations, at which it is
                                   installed and set up according to the
                                   manufacturer's instructions and connected
                                   to utilities for year round occupancy for
                                   use as a permanent habitation, and
                                   designed and situated so as to permit its
                                   occupancy as a dwelling place for one or
                                   more persons. The term shall include units
                                   containing parts that may be folded,
                                   collapsed, or telescoped when being towed,
                                   and that may be joined into one integral
                                   unit capable of being separated again for
                                   repeated towing. Campers and recreational
                                   vehicles do not constitute manufactured
                                   homes.
                                   An area for five (5) or more mobile homes
MOBILE HOME PARK:                  and meeting all the requirements of title
                                   10, chapter 6 of this code.
                                   Any establishment where for any form of
                                   considerations or gratuity, models who
                                   display specified anatomical areas to be
                                   observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
                                   sculptured, photographed or similarly
MODEL STUDIO:                      depicted by persons paying such
                                   consideration or gratuity, except that
                                   this provision shall not apply to any
                                   activity sponsored by an educational
                                   institution recognized by the State of
                                   Illinois in the course of its educational
                                   activities.
                                   A building assembly or system of
                                   subassemblies designed for habitation as a
                                   dwelling for one or more persons,
                                   including the necessary electrical,
                                   plumbing, heating, ventilating and other
                                   service systems, which is of closed or
                                   open construction and which is made or
                                   assembled by a manufacturer, on or off the
                                   building site, for installation, or
MODULAR HOME:                      assembly and installation, on the building
                                   site, with a permanent foundation and
                                   which is regulated by the Illinois
                                   department of public health and meets the
                                   specifications of the one- and two-family
                                   dwelling code, the Illinois state plumbing
                                   code, with amendments, the national
                                   electrical code, the model energy code,
                                   and the BOCA national building code
                                   currently in effect.
                                   A zoning district in which the limitations
                                   upon the uses to which a building or land
                                   can be devoted are more restricted than
                                   those in the district with which it is
                                   being compared. The A residential district
MORE RESTRICTED CLASSIFICATION:    is more restricted than the B business
                                   district; the B business district is more
                                   restricted than the C commercial service
                                   district; and the C commercial service
                                   district is more restricted than the D
                                   industrial district.
                                   A building or group of related buildings
MOTEL, MOTOR HOTEL OR MOTOR COURT: in which lodging is provided or offered
                                   for compensation to transient guests,
                                   customarily those traveling by automobile.
                                   Any building or land lawfully occupied by
                                   a use at the effective date hereof or any
                                   amendment hereto, which does not conform
                                   after the effective date hereof or
                                   amendment hereto with the use regulations
NONCONFORMING USE:                 of the district in which it is situated.
                                   The term also includes any use of a
                                   building or land which has become
                                   nonconforming by virtue of being annexed
                                   to the village of Cerro Gordo subsequent
                                   to the effective date hereof.
                                   A surfaced area of at least one hundred
                                   eighty (180) square feet located on the
                                   same lot as the building or use it is
                                   intended to serve and of such shape as to
PARKING SPACE:                     be suitable for parking or storage of a
                                   motor vehicle. The minimum area is
                                   exclusive of driveways which give
                                   convenient access between the parking
                                   space and a street serving the lot.
                                   A tract of land containing sites for the
                                   overnight or short term parking of motor
                                   homes, travel trailers and campers. In no
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK:         case shall a recreational vehicle park be
                                   used as a site for permanent residence or
                                   the placement of manufactured homes of any
                                   kind.
                                   Less than completely and opaquely covered
                                   human genitals, public regions, buttocks
                                   or female breasts below a point
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:        immediately above the top of the areola;
                                   or, human male genitals in a discernibly
                                   turgid state even if completely and
                                   opaquely covered.
                                   That portion of a building, other than a
                                   cellar or basement, included between the
STORY:                             surface of any floor and the surface of
                                   the floor next above it, or if there is no
                                   floor above it, the space between the
                                   floor and the ceiling next above it.
                                   A partial story under a gable, hip, or
                                   gambrel roof, the wall plates of which on
                                   at least two (2) opposite exterior walls
                                   are not more than four feet (4') above the
STORY, HALF:                       floor of such story; except, that any
                                   partial story used for residence purposes,
                                   other than for a janitor or caretaker or
                                   his family, or by a family occupying the
                                   floor immediately below it, shall be
                                   deemed a full story.
                                   Any public or private way set aside as a
STREET:                            permanent right of way which affords the
                                   principal means of access to the abutting
                                   property.
                                   Any change in the structural or supporting
                                   members of a building, such as a bearing
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION:             wall, columns, beams, or girders, or any
                                   substantial change in the roof or exterior
                                   walls.
                                   Anything constructed or erected, the use
                                   of which requires more or less permanent
                                   location on or in the ground or attached
                                   to something having a permanent location
                                   on or in the ground, including, but
                                   without limiting the generality of the
STRUCTURE:                         foregoing, advertising signs, billboards,
                                   backstops for tennis courts, pergolas,
                                   carports, open sheds, decks, covered and
                                   uncovered porches, decks or platform
                                   structures erected around all or a portion
                                   of a swimming pool and underground storage
                                   vaults or tanks.
                                   An open space on the same lot with a
                                   building which is measured as the minimum
                                   horizontal distance between the lot line
YARD:                              and main building. A yard shall be
                                   unoccupied and unobstructed from the
                                   ground upward except as otherwise provided
                                   by this title or amendments hereto.
                                   A yard extending across the front of a lot
                                   between the side lot lines and measured as
                                   the minimum horizontal distance between
                                   the street line and the front of the main
                                   building or any projection thereof, other
YARD, FRONT:                       than the projection of steps, terraces,
                                   uncovered porches, or uncovered
                                   entranceways which are permitted by this
                                   title. On corner lots, the front yard
                                   shall be deemed as parallel to the street
                                   upon which the lot has its least
                                   dimension.
                                   A yard extending across the rear of the
                                   lot between the side lot lines and
                                   measured as the minimum horizontal
                                   distance between the rear lot line and the
                                   rear of the main building or any
YARD, REAR:                        projection thereof, other than the
                                   projection of steps, terraces, uncovered
                                   porches or uncovered entranceways which
                                   are permitted by this title. On all lots,
                                   the rear yard shall be at the opposite end
                                   of the lot from the front yard.
                                   A yard between the main building and the
                                   side lot line, extending from the front
                                   yard to the rear yard. A side yard is
YARD, SIDE:                        measured as the minimum horizontal
                                   distance between the side lot line and the
                                   side of the main building. (Ord. 566-2012,
                                   3-19-2012; amd. Ord. 652-2019, 12-19-2019;
                                   Ord. 665-2020, 11-10-2020)
 
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Administrative And Enforcement Official
11-3-2: Building Permit And Certificate Of Occupancy
11-3-3: Amendments
11-3-4: Penalties
11-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the person appointed by the president and board of
trustees as building inspector to enforce and administer the regulations
contained herein. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3-2: BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Permit And Certificate Requirements:
      1.   Permit And Certificate Required: No building shall be constructed or
altered without a building permit nor without a certificate of occupancy as
required by this section.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application for a building permit shall be
made to the building inspector and shall be accompanied by a plat, in
duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the name of the applicant, the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape, and location of the
building to be erected, and such other information as may be necessary for the
enforcement of this title.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit And Certificate: Building permits and occupancy
certificates shall be issued by the building inspector.
      4.   Records Kept: A record of applications and plats shall be kept in
the office of the building inspector.
   B.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use or
occupancy of land, or in the use or occupancy of an existing building, other
than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be made, nor shall any new
building be occupied until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
building inspector. Such certificate of occupancy shall state that the new
occupancy complies with all provisions of this title.
      2.   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of, any
building shall be issued before application has been made and approved for a
certificate of occupancy, and no building or premises shall be occupied until
such certificate and permit are issued. A record of all certificates of
occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the building inspector.
   C.   Permit Fees: The applicable fees for building permits shall be a
minimum of thirty dollars ($30.00), and shall be calculated as follows:
 
Single-family residence $0.20 per square foot
Multi-family            0.30  per square foot
Commercial building     0.40  per square foot
Accessory building(s)   0.20  per square foot
Deck or porch           0.20  per square foot
 
(Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: The president and board of trustees may, from
time to time, on its own motion or on petition, amend this title and the
districts created herein, in the manner prescribed by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. The board of appeals is hereby designated as a commission to hold
hearings on such amendments. No such amendment shall be made until after it has
been referred to the board of appeals for a public hearing and a report has
been received from said board. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Petition For Amendment: All petitions asking for an amendment of this
title or the districts created herein shall be filed with the village clerk and
shall specify the exact nature of the amendment requested, the legal
description of any real estate owned by the petitioner adjacent to the area
proposed to be changed, and the legal description of the district or parts of
districts proposed to be changed. Such petition shall recite facts indicating
that the proposed amendment will not be detrimental to the general public
interest and the purposes of this title and shall further disclose the use
which the petitioner proposes for the property owned by him in the area to be
changed.
   C.   Fee: A petition asking for an amendment of this title or the districts
created herein shall be accompanied by a receipt from the village treasurer
showing the payment of a fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) which is hereby
established as the required fee for each petition asking for such amendment.
(Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this title shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Additional Remedies: In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this title, the village, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action or proceedings in
the name of the village to prevent such unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use; to
restrain, correct or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of the said
building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about the premises. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Created; Membership; Appointment And Term
11-3A-2: Organization
11-3A-3: Jurisdiction
11-3A-4: Appeals
11-3A-5: Variations
11-3A-6: Hearing Procedures
11-3A-7: Review Of Decisions
11-3A-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
A board of appeals is hereby established. The word "board", when used in this
article, shall be construed to mean the board of appeals. The board shall
consist of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the president, upon
approval by the board of trustees. The term of office of the initial members of
the board shall be as follows: one for one year, one for two (2) years, one for
three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one for six
(6) years and one for seven (7) years. Thereafter, successors to each member so
appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3A-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chair and at
such other times as the board may determine.
   B.   The chair, or in his absence, the acting chair, may administer oaths
and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   C.   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
   D.   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and official actions.
   E.   The board may adopt such rules of procedure as are not in conflict with
this title or the laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3A-3: JURISDICTION:
The board shall have the power and shall be charged with the duty to hear and
decide:
   A.   An appeal from any order, requirement, decision, or determination made
by the building inspector under this title, as set forth in section
11-3A-4 of this article.
   B.   Requests for variations in the application of the regulations imposed
by this title, as set forth in section
11-3A-5 of this article. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3A-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: An appeal may be taken to the board by any person,
firm or corporation, or by any officer, department, board or bureau affected by
a decision of the building inspector relative to this title. Such appeal shall
be taken within forty five (45) days of the action complained of, by filing
with the building inspector and with the board a notice of appeal, specifying
the grounds thereof. The building inspector shall forthwith transmit to the
board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a receipt from the
village treasurer showing the payment of an appeal fee of three hundred dollars
($300.00) which is hereby established as the required fee for such appeal taken
under the provisions of this subsection.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the building inspector
certifies to the board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him,
that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case, the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which
may be granted by the board or by a court of record on application and on
notice to the building inspector, and on due cause shown.
   C.   Hearing: The board shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall
render a decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may
appear and testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent
or attorney. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3A-5: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authority And Standards: When a property owner shows that a strict
application of the terms of this title relating to the use, construction or
alteration of buildings or structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him
practical difficulties or particular hardship, then the board may make such
variations of the strict application of the terms of this title as are in
harmony with its general purpose and intent when the board is satisfied, under
the evidence heard before it, that a grant of such variation will not merely
serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation in the
following instances:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
thereof divides a lot held in a single ownership at the effective date hereof.
      2.   To interpret the provisions of this title in such a way as to carry
out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the district map, where
the street layout on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
district map.
      3.   To permit reconstruction on a nonconforming building otherwise
prohibited by subsection
11-6-1D of this title.
      4.   To permit a variation in the yard regulations where there is an
exceptional or unusual physical condition of a lot, which condition is not
generally prevalent in the neighborhood, and which condition, when related to
the yard regulations of this title, would prevent a reasonable or sensible
arrangement of buildings on the lot.
      5.   To waive or reduce the off street parking requirements where it is
conclusively shown that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary
the parking spaces otherwise required by this title.
   B.   Request For Variation; Fee: A request for variation shall be made in
writing and shall be filed with the chair of the board. Each request shall
specify the exact nature of the variation requested and shall be accompanied by
a receipt from the village treasurer showing the payment of a fee of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) which is hereby established as the required fee for
each request for variation filed under the provisions of this subsection.
   C.   Hearing: The board shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing on the request for variation and shall render a decision without
unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and testify at the hearing, either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3A-6: HEARING PROCEDURES:
All hearings of the board shall comply with all requirements as to notice,
publication and procedure set forth in the applicable provisions of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-3A-7: REVIEW OF DECISIONS:
The decisions of the board with regard to appeals from a decision of the
building inspector and the decisions of the board with regard to variations
shall only be subject to review pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois
administrative review law. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
ARTICLE B. SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
11-3B-1: Enumeration Of Permitted Special Uses
11-3B-2: Procedure
11-3B-1: ENUMERATION OF PERMITTED SPECIAL USES:
The Village President and Board of Trustees may, by resolution, grant a special
permit for the following special uses in any district, except as herein
qualified, for which they are otherwise prohibited by this title, and may
impose appropriate conditions, safeguards off street parking requirements, and
including a specified period of time for the permit to be exercised to conserve
and protect property and property values in the neighborhood:
Airport, landing field or strip for aircraft.
Cemetery or mausoleum.
Commercial greenhouse.
Dwelling designed or used to accommodate more than one family.
Fairgrounds.
Home occupation.
Hospital, clinic or institution.
Manufactured home.
Mobile home park.
Nursery.
Radio or television broadcasting tower or station.
Railroad or public utility structure other than the usual poles, wire and
underground utilities.
Recreational vehicle park.
Removal of gravel, topsoil or similar natural material, with safeguards for the
protection of adjoining property and the community as a whole.
Riding stable.
Roadside stand, commercial amusement or recreational development for temporary
or seasonal periods.
Sanitary fill for the disposal of garbage or trash.
Training facility for fire departments and/or public bodies legally authorized
to perform firefighting duties, with safeguard for the protection of adjoining
property and the community as a whole. (Ord. 625-2017, 5-9-2017)
11-3B-2: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request For Special Use; Fee: A request for a special use shall be made
in writing and filed with the Chair of the Board of Appeals. Each request shall
specify the exact nature of the special use requested and shall be accompanied
by receipt from the Village Treasurer showing payment of the fee of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) which is hereby established as the fee required for
each request for special use filed under the provisions of this article. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Review; Hearing; Action: Before authorization of any of the special
uses enumerated in section
11-3B-1 of this article, the request therefor shall be referred to the Board of
Appeals for study and report concerning the effect of the proposed use on the
character and development of the neighborhood, and a public hearing shall be
held in relation thereto before the Board of Appeals. Notice of the time, place
and purpose of such hearing shall be given in the manner described in section
11-3A-6 of this chapter. If no report is received from the Board of Appeals
within sixty (60) days of such referral, the President and Board of Trustees
may take action without further awaiting such report. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-
2012)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Districts Established
11-4-2: Zoning Map
11-4-3: Permitted Uses; Compliance With Provisions
11-4-4: Yards, Parking Spaces And Open Space
11-4-5: Building On A Lot
11-4-6: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
11-4-7: Vacation Of Public Ways
11-4-8: Grant Of Prohibited Use
11-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this title, the village is hereby divided into four (4)
zoning districts, as follows:
   A   Residential district
   B    Business district
   C    Commercial service district
   D    Industrial district
(Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the districts are shown on the "District Map" which is hereby
made a part of this title. The original of this map is properly attested and on
file with the village clerk, and said map and all the information shown thereon
shall have the same force and effect as if fully set forth or described herein.
(Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-4-3: PERMITTED USES; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved
or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for a
use permitted in the district in which such building or land is located.
   B.   No building shall be erected, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or
structurally altered except in conformity with the height, yard, area per
family, off street parking, and other regulations prescribed herein for the
district in which such building is located. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-4-4: YARDS, PARKING SPACES AND OPEN SPACE:
The minimum yards, parking spaces, and open spaces, including lot area per
family, required by this title for each and every building existing at the
effective date hereof, or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be
encroached upon or considered as a part of the yard or parking space or open
space required for any other building, nor shall any lot area be reduced below
the requirements of this title for the district in which such lot is located.
(Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-4-5: BUILDING ON A LOT:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on a
"lot" as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, and in no case shall more than one residential building
be located on a lot. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-4-6: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be
automatically classified as an A residential district until this classification
is changed by amendment to this title. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-4-7: VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated, the zoning district
adjoining each side of such street, alley of public way shall be automatically
extended to the center of such vacation, and all area included in the vacation
shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the
extended districts. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-4-8: GRANT OF PROHIBITED USE:
The board of trustees may, by resolution, grant any use which is otherwise
prohibited by this title in any district for a period of not more than one
year, and may require appropriate conditions, safeguards and off street parking
requirements. Said use shall automatically terminate at the end of one year
from date said temporary use is granted. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
ARTICLE A. PERMITTED USES
SECTION:
11-5A-1: A Residential District
11-5A-2: B Business District
11-5A-3: C Commercial Service District
11-5A-4: D Industrial District
11-5A-1: A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
In the A residential district, the following uses only are permitted:
   A.   Dwelling, single-family.
   B.   Church, school or library.
   C.   Public park, playground or community center.
   D.   Golf course or a private club not operated for gain.
   E.   Truck garden or farming; provided, that any structure, building, or
enclosure for animals shall be at least fifty feet (50') from all street and
lot lines, and at least seventy five feet (75') from any dwelling house as set
forth in subsection 6-4-2A1 of this code.
   F.   Home occupation, where no nameplate in excess of two (2) square feet in
area is used in connection therewith.
   G.   Private garage customarily incident to the above uses, but not
involving the conduct of a business; provided, that such private garage is not
constructed prior to beginning construction of the main building, and provided
only one private garage is constructed on each lot.
   H.   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to the above uses, not
involving the conduct of a business, including a church, school, or bulletin
board or a similar sign not exceeding ten (10) square feet in area appertaining
to the lease, hire or sale of a building or land, or the sale of products grown
only on the premises; provided, that not more than one sign of the character
set out in this subsection shall be permitted upon any lot; provided, that any
accessory building is not constructed prior to beginning construction of the
main buildings.
   I.   Existing manufactured homes, which term includes homes defined as
"mobile homes" prior to the enactment of ordinance 457 (passed December 18,
2000) which may remain and may be replaced on the same lot by manufactured
homes of equal or greater value (said value to be determined as of the date of
replacement) if said replacement occurs within ninety (90) days. After any
manufactured home is removed and if not so replaced within the ninety (90) day
period, then a manufactured home may no longer be put on said lot.
   J.   A new or used mobile home may be temporarily set on a lot for a period
not to exceed six (6) months and utilities may be hooked up to said mobile
home. It is expressly provided that no more than one mobile home may be set on
a lot more than once every five (5) years. A permit must be obtained from the
building inspector in order to set up said mobile home, and said mobile home
must be removed on or prior to the expiration of said six (6) months. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-5A-2: B BUSINESS DISTRICT:
In the B business district, the following uses only are permitted:
   A.   Any use permitted in the A residential district.
   B.   Store or shop where goods are sold primarily at retail or personal
services are rendered, including a grocery store, drugstore, meat market,
hardware store, gift shop, bank, beauty parlor, restaurant, studio, tailor,
shoe repair, electrical repair or similar retail sales, service or repair shop.
   C.   Office.
   D.   Hotel.
   E.   Business or commercial school or dancing or music academy.
   F.   Clinic.
   G.   Indoor theater.
   H.   Printing shop.
   I.   Undertaking establishment or mortuary.
   J.   Accessory building or use customarily incident to a permitted use,
including an advertising sign or a bulletin board.
   K.   Use of a cargo container or modular container for storage of chattels
or property incident to a permitted use.
      1.   Cargo containers shall not be placed on the property until the
property owner or lessee has applied for and obtained a container permit from
the village building inspector. Said permit must be renewed by the property
owner or lessee annually by applying for renewal with the building inspector.
      2.   No more than one container shall be permitted on the premises at any
time.
      3.   Containers shall not be stacked on top of each other.
      4.   All containers shall be locked and secured at all times when not in
use.
      5.   All containers which contain hazardous chemicals or materials shall
bear a placard on the outside of the container indicating the presence of
hazardous materials inside the container.
      6.   For purposes of this subsection, a cargo container does not include
a semitrailer or similar trailer which has had the wheels and axles removed.
   L.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensary:
      1.   Purpose And Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and
dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the
village of Cerro Gordo. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations
provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and
the regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more
restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
      2.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within five hundred feet (500') of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
         b.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned
or used for residential purposes.
         c.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by a dispensing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the dispensing organization as authorized by the Act, and no
dispensing organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises in
the same tenant space.
         d.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
         e.   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by division L.3. (Additional Requirements) shall also reflect adequate
provisions to respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site
consumption permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked
following notice and hearing as provided in section
11-3A-6.
         f.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this division L as provided herein and all other requirements
of the Act.
      3.   Additional Requirements: Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the conditional use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012; amd. Ord. 652-2019, 12-19-
2019)
11-5A-3: C COMMERCIAL SERVICE DISTRICT:
In the C commercial service district, the following uses only are permitted:
   A.   Any use permitted in the B business district.
   B.   Automobile or trailer display or sales room.
   C.   Automobile or trailer sales or storage lot, when located at least one
hundred feet (100') from any A residential district boundary.
   D.   Farm implement display or sales room.
   E.   Farm implement sales or storage lot, when located at least one hundred
feet (100') from any A residential district boundary.
   F.   Frozen food locker.
   G.   Milk distributing station.
   H.   Motel.
   I.   Painting, plumbing, tinsmithing, upholstering, cabinet making or
similar general service shop, when at least one hundred feet (100') from any A
residential district boundary.
   J.   Also, when located at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from any A
residential district boundary:
Bowling alley.
Drive-in restaurant or similar establishment.
Drive-in theater.
Other similar place of entertainment or amusement.
   K.   Filling station or, when located at least fifty feet (50') from any A
residential district boundary, a public garage.
   L.   Accessory building or use customarily incident to the above uses. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-5A-4: D INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
In the D industrial district, the following uses only are permitted. In
authorizing any of the uses in this section, there may be imposed such
reasonable requirements as to the landscaping, off street parking, screening
and other features of the development as are deemed necessary to protect
adjacent property and prevent objectionable or hazardous conditions.
   A.   Any use permitted in the C commercial service district.
   B.   Bottling works.
   C.   Carting, express or storage yard.
   D.   Contractor yard.
   E.   Coal yard, coke yard or lumberyard.
   F.   Grain elevator.
   G.   Any other business, industry or manufacturing use where the process of
manufacture or treatment or other activity is such that only a nominal amount
of dust, odor, gas, smoke, vibration or noise is emitted and not more than ten
percent (10%) of the lot or tract is used for the open storage of products,
materials or equipment.
   H.   Adult entertainment use: when located at least 500 feet from any
property located in a residential district or any school, mobile home park, or
public park, and at least 1,000 feet away from any other adult entertainment
use. Measurements shall be made from the lot lines of the property containing
the proposed adult entertainment use and any residentially-zoned property,
school, mobile home park, public park, and/or other adult entertainment use.
   I.   Any other use not in conflict with the enacted laws of the state of
Illinois or the ordinances of the village regulating nuisances; provided, that
no use emitting or likely to emit substantial amounts of dust, odor, gas,
smoke, vibration or noise, and none of the following specific uses shall be
permitted unless approved by the president and board of trustees after a review
and report of the board of appeals, and subject to such requirements as the
president and board of trustees may deem necessary to protect adjacent property
and prevent objectionable or offensive conditions:
      Acid or chemical manufacture.
      Auto wrecking yard or junkyard.
      Commercial buying or selling of live poultry or storage thereof.
      Distillation of bones.
      Dumping or storage or disposal of garbage, trash, refuse, waste, junk or
abandoned material.
      Explosives manufacture or storage.
      Fat rendering or fertilizer manufacture.
      Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping.
      Glue manufacture.
      Lime, phosphate or limestone storage or handling.
      Slaughter or processing of poultry or poultry products.
      Stockyards or slaughter or processing of animals.
      Veterinary or animal hospital.
      Wholesale or retail bulk storage of gasoline or propane.
      Yard for storage of wrecked automobiles.
      Any similar use that would be hazardous to the public health, safety or
welfare. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012; amd. Ord. 665-2020, 11-10-2020)
ARTICLE B. LOT, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-5B-1: Regulations
11-5B-2: Exceptions And Modifications
11-5B-1: REGULATIONS:
Except as provided in section
11-5B-2 of this article, the lot, yard and height regulations shall be as
follows:
   A.   Area: Every lot used for a single-family dwelling shall have a minimum
area of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. No minimum is required
for a lot used only for commercial or industrial purposes.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: The front yard requirements are thirty feet (30') in the
A Residential, C Commercial Service and D Industrial Districts. No front yard
setbacks are required in the B Business District.
      2.   Side Yards: The side yard requirements for dwellings shall be seven
feet (7') for a single-story building and eight feet (8') for a building of two
(2) or more stories. No side yard is required for business, commercial or
industrial buildings, except along the side of a lot abutting a lot in the A
Residential District, in which case, a side yard of ten feet (10') shall be
provided.
      3.   Rear Yard: The rear yard requirements for dwellings shall be thirty
five feet (35'). No rear yard is required for business, commercial or
industrial buildings, except on a lot abutting a lot in the A Residential
District, in which case, a rear yard of twenty five feet (25') shall be
provided.
   C.   Lot Width: Every lot used for a dwelling shall have a minimum width of
sixty feet (60') for a single-family dwelling and seventy five feet (75') for
any other dwelling.
   D.   Building Height: No building shall exceed a height of two and one-half
(21/2) stories or a height of thirty five feet (35') in either an A Residential
District, a B Business District, or a C Commercial Service District, or a
height of three (3) stories or forty five feet (45'), whichever is lesser, in a
D Industrial District. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-5B-2: EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
The height and area regulations specified in section
11-5B-1 of this article shall be modified under certain conditions or with
respect to certain types of structures as follows:
   A.   Lot Area And Width: Where a lot of record at the effective date hereof
has less area or width than herein required, and the owner of such a lot does
not own any other parcel or tract adjacent thereto, said lot may nonetheless be
used for a single-family dwelling.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard:
         a.   Where thirty percent (30%) or more of a block front is improved
with buildings, then no part of any new building shall project beyond a line
joining the two (2) adjacent corners of the buildings on either side thereof
or, where there is a building on only one side, beyond a line projected from
the corresponding adjacent corners of the two (2) nearest buildings; except,
that no building shall be required to provide a front yard greater than fifty
feet (50') in any event.
         b.   A corner lot shall have a yard on each street which meets the
front yard requirements of the district in which it is located; except, that
the building width of the lot shall not be reduced to less than forty feet
(40'), and no accessory building shall project beyond the required yard on
either street.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   The required side yard shall be maintained on each side of a
dwelling; except, that such side yard width on a lot of record which is less
than sixty feet (60') in width may have a side yard of less than that set forth
in subsection
11-5B-1B2 of this article, but in no circumstance shall a side yard be less
than five feet (5') in width.
         b.   For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a building
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be considered as one building
occupying one lot.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   The required rear yard may be reduced to twenty percent (20%) of
the depth of the lot on a lot of record which does not have a depth of at least
one hundred twenty feet (120').
         b.   An accessory building may be built within a required rear yard
when located at least five feet (5') from the rear and side lot lines and when
occupying not more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of such required rear
yard. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
         c.   For those properties located on North Washington Street and North
Lincoln Street between Oakley Road and West Carter Street, specifically Lots
130-002, 130-003, 130-006, 130-007, 130-011, 130-012, 130-013, 130-014, 130-
015, 130-016, 130-017, 130-018, 130-019, 130-020, 130-021, and 130-022 of
Durfee's West Addition, no building, accessory building, fence, concrete pad,
pool, or other non-portable improvement may be built, erected or installed
within five feet (5') of the lot line adjacent to the alley. (Ord. 639-2018, 7-
16-2018)
      4.   All Yards:
         a.   The ordinary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and
ornamental features may be permitted not to exceed eighteen inches (18") in any
required yard.
         b.   An open, uncovered porch, paved terrace, entranceway, or steps
may extend not more than ten feet (10') into the front yard.
   C.   Height:
      1.   Chimneys, cooling or water towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, stacks, stage towers, tanks, spires, church steeples, radio towers
or necessary mechanical apparatus may be erected to any safe height not in
conflict with any other ordinance of the Village.
      2.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions, churches and schools, when permitted in a district, may be
erected to a height not exceeding sixty feet (60'), provided all required yards
are increased by one foot (1') for each foot of building height above the
height limit otherwise provided. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
ARTICLE C. OFF STREET PARKING
SECTION:
11-5C-1: Number Of Parking Spaces
11-5C-2: Computation Of Number Of Spaces
11-5C-3: Location
11-5C-1: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES:
In A residential, C commercial service and D industrial districts, whenever a
building is erected, converted, enlarged, or structurally altered for a use
described in this article, or the use of a building or land is hereafter
changed to a use described in this article, then off street parking for
automobiles or trucks shall be provided on the lot or tract of land used in
accordance with the following minimum requirements:
   A.   For dwellings: Two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
   B.   For those uses listed in subsection 11-5A-2C, D, E, F, G, H, I, or J of
this chapter: One parking space for each two hundred (200) square feet of floor
area.
   C.   For those uses listed in subsections 11-5A-3B, E, G, H, I, J, K, and L
of this chapter, and for any other similar business, commercial or service use
not provided in this subsection: One parking space for each one hundred (100)
square feet of floor area.
   D.   For any manufacturing or industrial use, including a bottling works,
lumberyard and grain elevator: One parking space for each two (2) employees on
the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate all trucks and other
vehicles in connection therewith. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
11-5C-2: COMPUTATION OF NUMBER OF SPACES:
Where fractional parking spaces result from the computation of parking spaces,
the parking spaces required shall be construed to be the nearest whole number.
In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of
the requirements of the various uses computed separately. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-
2012)
11-5C-3: LOCATION:
Parking spaces may be provided in the required side, rear and front yards of
lots located in the C commercial service district and the D industrial
district; except, that parking spaces may be provided only in the required side
and rear yards when lots in such districts are used for dwellings. Parking
spaces may be provided in the required side and rear yards of lots located in
the A residential district but not in the required front yard thereof. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
11-6-1: Nonconforming Use Of Building
11-6-2: Nonconforming Use Of Land
11-6-1: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDING:
   A.   Continuance Of Use: Except as otherwise provided in this title, a
nonconforming use of a building, or a portion thereof, may be continued even
though such use does not conform with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Change Of Use:
      1.   If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification, provided the off street parking requirements
applicable to the new use are met.
      2.   Whenever a nonconforming use is changed to a more restricted use or
to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted
use.
   C.   Extension Or Enlargement Of Use: The nonconforming use of a building
may be extended throughout those parts thereof which were manifestly arranged
or designed therefor prior to the effective date hereof, but no nonconforming
use shall be extended or enlarged where enlargement of the building is required
therefor.
   D.   Damaged Structures:
      1.   A nonconforming building which has been damaged by fire, explosion,
act of God or the public enemy to the extent of more than sixty percent (60%)
of its reproduction value at the time of damage shall not be restored except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      2.   When damaged by less than sixty percent (60%) of its reproduction
value, a nonconforming building may be repaired or reconstructed and used as
before the time of damage, provided such repairs or reconstruction are
completed within one year of the date of such damage.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or
portion thereof is discontinued for a continuous period of one year, any future
use of such building or portion thereof shall be in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which such building is located. (Ord. 566-2012,
3-19-2012)
11-6-2: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
   A.   A nonconforming use of land may be continued; provided, however, that
no such nonconforming use of land shall be in any way expanded or extended,
either on the same or adjoining property. If such nonconforming use of land or
any portion thereof is discontinued for a continuous period of six (6) months,
or changed, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this title.
   B.   The nonconforming use of land for storage purposes and nonconforming
advertising signs and billboards shall be discontinued within five (5) years
from the effective date hereof or, by reason of being annexed to the village,
shall also be discontinued within five (5) years from the passage of the
amendment or annexation ordinance. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Short Title
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: Validity
12-1-4: Variances
12-1-5: Amendments
12-1-6: Enforcement
12-1-7: Penalty
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, referred to, and cited as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
OF THE VILLAGE OF CERRO GORDO, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A right of way affording a secondary means of vehicular access to
property abutting upon a street.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets, shorelines of streams, or other lines of demarcation.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line of a plat within a lot or other parcel of land
which denotes the area between such line and the adjacent lot line where
structures are prohibited, except utility transformer vaults and those
structures permitted under the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
EASEMENT: The grant of the use of a parcel of land by the owner for a specific
purpose to the public, a corporation, or an individual person or persons.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel or tract of land, five (5)
acres or less in area, intended as a building site or otherwise intended to be
developed or used as a unit under separate ownership, rental, lease agreement,
or other legal agreement.
LOT, CORNER: A lot having frontage on two (2) intersecting streets.
OWNER: Any person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public
or quasi-public corporation, or combination of thereof, or any other legal
entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided or divided under the provisions of this title.
PLAT: A map, drawing, or chart which portrays a subdivider's plan for the
subdivision of a parcel of land.
PLAT, FINAL: A drawing to engineering accuracy and containing those items
specified by this title indicating the layout of lots, blocks, easements, and
public ways in a subdivision, together with the legal documents required
herein.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision containing
the information required by this title and which is not intended to be recorded
in the records of the county recorder's office.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any street, sewer, water main, sidewalk, or any other
facility proposed and/or constructed which is intended to be dedicated to the
village or other governmental agency for maintenance.
STREET: The pavement structure, curbing and guttering, together with those
related items normally and customarily constructed as a part of a roadway
improvement designed and intended for vehicular traffic to move upon.
SUBDIVIDER: Any owner or his authorized representative who undertakes to cause
a parcel or tract of land to be subdivided.
SUBDIVISION: A division of any parcel of land, whether described by lots or by
metes and bounds, into two (2) or more parts, lots, tracts or parcels, for the
purpose of conveyance, transfer, sale or lease of any of the parts so created
or for the purposes of improvement, construction, or development thereon. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-1-3: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is, for
any reason, held to be unconstitutional or void, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this title. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-
2012)
12-1-4: VARIANCES:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size, shape or
topography, or is surrounded by such development of unusual conditions that the
strict application of the requirements contained in this title would result in
real difficulties or substantial hardship or injustice, the village may vary or
modify such requirements so that the subdivider may develop his property in a
reasonable manner, but so that at the same time, the public welfare and
interest of the village and surrounding area are protected and the general
intent and spirit of this title preserved. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-1-5: AMENDMENTS:
Any regulations or provisions of this title may be changed and amended from
time to time by the village board of trustees; provided, however, that such
changes or amendments shall not be adopted until after a public hearing and
report by the board of appeals. Notice of such public hearing shall be given in
a newspaper of general circulation at least fifteen (15) days prior to such
hearing. Any such changes or amendments shall not affect or apply to any
subdivision where the preliminary plat has been approved by the board of
trustees, provided the time limit of the approval has not expired. (Ord. 566-
2012, 3-19-2012)
12-1-6: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the village building inspector, or his authorized
representative, to enforce the provisions of this title. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-
2012)
12-1-7: PENALTY:
Whoever sells, leases, or offers to sell or lease, or otherwise conveys any
lot, tract, or property which does not conform to the requirements and
regulations of this title shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each lot or tract so sold, leased, or offered for sale
or lease, or otherwise conveyed. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 2
JURISDICTION AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Jurisdiction; Compliance Required
12-2-2: Fees
12-2-3: Preliminary Plat To Be Approved
12-2-4: Final Plat To Be Approved
12-2-1: JURISDICTION; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, agency, or person having control of any
land within the corporate limits of the village or within one and one-half (11/
2) miles of said corporate limits, when not in any other incorporated
community, to subdivide or lay out such land into lots, blocks, streets,
avenues, alleys, public ways, and grounds, unless by a plat in accordance with
the laws of the state of Illinois and the provisions of this title. (Ord. 566-
2012, 3-19-2012)
12-2-2: FEES:
A filing and engineering review fee shall be paid to the village treasurer at
the time a subdivision or a preliminary plat is filed with the village clerk.
The fee schedule shall be as follows:
 
Subdivision of 5 lots or less    $400.00
Subdivisions of more than 5 lots 750.00
 
(Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT TO BE APPROVED:
A preliminary plat shall be submitted to the village for approval as provided
in this title. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-2-4: FINAL PLAT TO BE APPROVED:
   A.   Following the approval of the preliminary plat, the final plat shall be
submitted to the village for approval. No final plat shall be submitted for
approval unless or until:
      1.   The required improvements are installed; or
      2.   A bond for the installation of such improvements is furnished.
   B.   No plat or replat shall be filed for record or recorded in the records
in the office of the county recorder of deeds, unless or until approved by the
village, and the approval of the village is endorsed thereon and attested to by
the village clerk. No lot shall be sold, transferred, leased, or otherwise
conveyed from such plat until the final plat is so approved and recorded. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Streets And Alleys
12-3-2: Easements
12-3-3: Lots
12-3-4: Access To Adjoining Unplatted Property
12-3-1: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions
for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas (or the proper
projection where adjoining land is not subdivided) insofar as they may be
deemed necessary for public requirements.
   B.   The minimum width for local street rights of way shall be sixty feet
(60'), except in cases where the topography or special conditions make a street
of less width more suitable, in which case, the trustees may waive the width
requirement.
   C.   Alleys shall not be required in a residential subdivision. Alleys are
required in the rear of all business lots unless other adequate provisions are
made for service and deliveries. If provided, alleys shall be at least twenty
feet (20') wide. No dead end alley nor any sharp change in its alignment shall
be permitted.
   D.   Alleys shall not provide primary vehicular access to any lot. Alleys
shall provide a secondary means of access only. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-3-2: EASEMENTS:
Easements of at least five feet (5') in width shall be dedicated on each side
of all rear lot lines and, where necessary, along side lot lines for poles,
wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, surface water drainage, gas, water
or other utilities or where both water and sewer lines are to be located in the
same easement or where required for surface water drainage. All easements shall
be aligned such that existing and any future utilities or drainage facilities
can be extended beyond the boundaries of the subdivision. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-
2012)
12-3-3: LOTS:
   A.   Every lot shall be designed to meet the minimum lot area and size
requirements of the applicable zoning district.
   B.   Corner lots shall have a width sufficient to permit the establishment
of front yards along all adjacent or abutting streets in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance.
   C.   All lots shall have a front street. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-3-4: ACCESS TO ADJOINING UNPLATTED PROPERTY:
Where the street system within a proposed subdivision could and, in the
judgment of the trustees, should be extended to provide adequate access to
either the proposed subdivision or to adjoining property, the trustees may
require a subdivider to provide such access. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 4
PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
12-4-1: Filing Preliminary Plat
12-4-2: Contents
12-4-1: FILING PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The preliminary plat shall be filed with the village clerk and shall be
accompanied with a receipt showing that the filing fee has been paid to the
village treasurer. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-4-2: CONTENTS:
The preliminary plat shall show:
   A.   The location of all existing property lines and section lines, streets,
buildings, easements, watercourses, and other existing features within the area
to be subdivided and similar information regarding land immediately adjacent
thereto sufficient to show a true picture.
   B.   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') for lots of less than one-half (1/2) acre
and not less than one inch to two hundred feet (1" = 200') for lots of one-half
(1/2) acre or more.
   C.   The proposed location and width of streets, street rights of way,
alleys, lots, building lines, and easements. Utility easement locations and
widths shown shall be those approved in writing by the utility companies. No
preliminary plat shall be approved without such written statements.
   D.   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded, the
names and addresses of the registered professional engineer, the registered
land surveyor, and the subdivider platting the tract. The title block shall
include the words "Preliminary Plat" and shall be shown on each sheet.
   E.   A location map and the legal description of the property included in
the proposed subdivision.
   F.   The north point, scale and date. The scale shall be shown both
graphically and numerically.
   G.   If a subdivision is to be developed in more than one phase, the
preliminary plat shall show the area to be developed in each phase, as well as
the order in which the phases are to be developed. If the final plat for any
phase is not filed for approval within two (2) years from the date that the
preliminary plat was approved by the village, the subdivider shall resubmit the
preliminary plat with the village clerk for reconsideration. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-
19-2012)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Authority To Proceed With Final Plat; Time Limit
12-5-2: Final Plat Approval; Bond Requirements
12-5-3: Installation Of Improvements
12-5-4: Survey Monuments
12-5-5: Streets
12-5-6: Water Lines
12-5-7: Sanitary Sewers
12-5-8: Drainage
12-5-9: Street Name Signs
12-5-10: Electric Service
12-5-11: Telephone Service
12-5-12: Gas Service
12-5-13: Cable Television Service
12-5-14: Underground Utilities
12-5-15: Acceptance Of Improvements
12-5-1: AUTHORITY TO PROCEED WITH FINAL PLAT; TIME LIMIT:
Receipt by the subdivider of the copy of the approved preliminary plat,
together with the approval of the village trustees, or its authorized
representative, shall constitute authority only for the subdivider to proceed
with installation of the required improvements and the preparation of the final
plat. The authority is effective for two (2) years unless extended by the
trustees. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-2: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL; BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No final plat of any subdivision shall be approved unless:
      1.   The improvements listed in this chapter have been installed in
accordance with the approved preliminary plat prior to such approval, except as
provided herein, and proper record drawings and certificates of such
installations are on file with the village clerk; or
      2.   The subdivider shall have filed with the village a surety bond,
contractor's bond, owner's guarantee bond, or cashier's or certified check to
ensure the construction of the improvements listed in this chapter in a
satisfactory manner and within the period specified. No surety bond shall be
released until such time as the subdivider's engineer has notified the village
clerk.
   B.   1. Following approval, construction may be started and/or improvement
bonds may be filed as provided herein.
      2.   Pursuant to subsection 12-2-4A2 of this title, in the event the
required improvements are not installed, a bond for such installation shall be
one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the cost of the materials and labor
for the required improvements. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-3: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The owner of a tract of land may prepare and secure approval of a preliminary
plat for the entire tract or a portion thereof, provided the improvements are
installed. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-4: SURVEY MONUMENTS:
   A.   Reference shall be made upon the plat to some known and permanent
monuments from which future surveys may be made, or if no such monuments exist
within a convenient distance, the surveyor shall, at the time of making his
survey, plant in such manner that they will not be moved by frost, not less
than two (2) good and sufficient monuments to witness the extreme corner of the
tract divided or subdivided, and shall designate upon the plat the points where
they may be found. Iron pipes or steel rods shall be set at all lot corners.
Any and all existing monuments shall be preserved and reestablished and reset
if disturbed.
   B.   All points of tangency and points of curvature of all curves shall be
marked with iron pins having a minimum diameter of one-half inch (1/2") and a
minimum length of thirty inches (30") and shall be located on the property
line. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-5: STREETS:
All streets shall be in accordance with the construction standards and
specifications as adopted by the village board from time to time. (Ord. 566-
2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-6: WATER LINES:
   A.   Where a subdivision is located within the village limits, each lot
within the subdivision shall be provided with a connection to the village water
system, said water service to terminate not less than six inches (6") from the
property line.
   B.   Fire hydrants and shutoff valves shall be installed in subdivisions
within the corporate limits, and the location of the same shall be approved by
the director of public works.
   C.   No water main shall be connected to the existing system until and
unless the main has been sterilized in a manner approved by and under the
direction of the director of public works, and in accordance with the
construction standards and specifications as adopted by the village board from
time to time.
   D.   In subdivisions outside the village limits, where the lots contain
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or more, private water supply systems may
be installed for each lot at the time improvements are erected thereon. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-7: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Where the subdivision is located within the village limits, each lot
within the subdivided area shall be provided with a connection to a sanitary
sewer, said sewer connection to terminate not less than two feet (2') from the
property line.
   B.   All connections to the sanitary sewer system and the subdivision sewer
system shall comply with the ordinances of the village and all construction of
the system shall be subject to the direction and approval of the director of
public works, and in accordance with the construction standards and
specifications as adopted by the village board from time to time.
   C.   In subdivisions beyond the village limits where the lots contain less
than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, the proper authorities shall approve
the manner in which sanitary sewers shall be installed and how the sewage shall
be finally treated and disposed. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-8: DRAINAGE:
The plat shall be laid out so as to provide proper drainage of the area being
subdivided. Drainage improvements shall maintain any substantial natural
watercourse and shall prevent the accumulation of stagnant water in any low
areas. A system of disposing of the stormwater, approved by the director of
public works, shall be provided. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-9: STREET NAME SIGNS:
Street name signs shall be provided and erected by the subdivider at all
intersections. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-10: ELECTRIC SERVICE:
Electric power service shall be constructed to standards and specifications
approved by the franchised utility company. Electric service shall be available
to each lot. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-11: TELEPHONE SERVICE:
Telephone service shall be constructed to standards and specifications approved
by the franchised utility company. Telephone service shall be available to each
lot. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-12: GAS SERVICE:
In subdivisions where natural gas lines are to be installed, such lines shall
be constructed to standards and specifications approved by the franchised
utility company. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-13: CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE:
Cable television lines and facilities, if available, shall be constructed to
standards and specifications approved by the franchised utility company. (Ord.
566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-14: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
All utilities including, but not limited to, telephone, electric, gas, and
cable TV service lines, shall be installed underground in all subdivisions,
unless approved otherwise by the village board. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-5-15: ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Any street or other public improvement in any new subdivision in the village
shall not be accepted by the village until notification to the village board of
trustees, in writing, by the director of public works that the same has been
completed in accordance with the plans and specifications therefor, and the
subdivider notified in writing that such improvements have been accepted by the
village. In no case shall the village acceptance of the improvements become
valid until the final plat is recorded. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
12-6-1: Filing Final Plat
12-6-2: Plat Specifications
12-6-3: Information Required
12-6-4: Recording Final Plat
12-6-1: FILING FINAL PLAT:
Final plats shall be filed with the village trustees. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-
2012)
12-6-2: PLAT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   A final plat shall be drawn from an accurate survey on a sheet of
reproducible tracing cloth or mylar.
   B.   The scale of the final plat drawings shall be not less than one hundred
feet to one inch (1" = 100'). (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-6-3: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
The final plat and accompanying documents shall show:
   A.   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with accurate distances
and angles. The correct legal description of the property being subdivided
shall be shown on the plat, or an accompanying certificate. The subdivider
shall also provide the legal description of the recorded tracts from which the
subdivision is taken or the recorded tracts of which it is composed.
   B.   The lines of all proposed streets and alleys with their widths and the
names of all streets.
   C.   The accurate outlines of any portions of the property intended to be
dedicated or granted for public use.
   D.   The angle of departure of one street from another.
   E.   The lines of all adjoining properties and the lines of adjoining
streets and alleys with their widths and the names of all streets.
   F.   All lot lines, together with an identification for all lots. All lot
identification shall be a consecutive numerical system, and no lot shall be
identified as an "outlot" or by a letter.
   G.   Minimum building lines shall be shown on the plat. Such minimum setback
shall not be less than that required for the zoning district.
   H.   The location of all easements provided for public use, services, or
utilities, and their specific purpose shall be stated.
   I.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating the
boundaries of the subdivisions, lots, streets, alleys, easements, and other
areas for public or private use. Linear dimensions are to be given to the
nearest one one- hundredth of a foot (1/100'). Angular dimensions shall include
all line bearings and internal angles.
   J.   The radii, arcs, or chords, points of tangency and curve data for all
curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners.
   K.   The location and description of all survey monuments.
   L.   The name of the subdivision and the scale of the plat, north point, the
name of the owner or owners, and subdividers.
   M.   The certificate of a registered Illinois land surveyor attesting the
accuracy of the survey and the correct location of all monuments shown.
   N.   Owners' declaration in the form of a restriction upon the owner or
owners, and successors, grantees, and assigns, binding each of them to comply
with all state and local laws in effect, from time to time, prohibiting
discrimination or segregation by reason of race, color, religion, gender,
creed, ancestry, national origin, physical or mental disability, marital
status, age, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from
the military, familial status or order of protection status in the sale, lease,
rental, use or occupation of the premises within such platted land or any part
thereof, or the improvements thereon.
   O.   The owners' declaration should provide for a time of termination of
restrictions. After such time, a majority of the owners of a majority of the
property within the subdivision may change the restrictions, in whole or in
part, if the owners' declaration provides for an automatic extension of the
restrictions. Any such change shall be recorded in the records of the county
recorder's office.
   P.   The plat shall comply with those items required by the plat act, 765
Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1 et seq.
   Q.   Such plat shall also have a statement thereon signed by the surveyor
that the land in said subdivision                 within the village; or,
                within one and one- half (11/2) miles of the village. Depending
on whether such condition does or does not exist, the word(s) "is" or "is not"
shall be inserted on the blank lines. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-2012)
12-6-4: RECORDING FINAL PLAT:
   A.   After the approval of the final plat by the village and the department
of natural resources/office of water resources of the state of Illinois, if
required, said plat shall be recorded in the county recorder's office within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after final approval by the village and
the department of natural resources, if such approval is required. If, however,
said plat is not recorded in the county recorder's office within one hundred
twenty (120) calendar days after final approval, the plat shall have no
validity and shall not be recorded without reapproval. The final plat shall be
recorded by the village clerk, and the subdivider shall pay the recording fee.
No plat shall be valid until it is recorded in the county recorder's office.
   B.   Recording of the approved plat shall constitute authority to advertise,
sell, lease, offer for sale or lease, or otherwise convey lots within the
subdivision; make application for building permits; the assignment of street
addresses; and to utilize the name and lot number of the subdivision in the
legal description of a parcel of land contained therein. (Ord. 566-2012, 3-19-
2012)
