VILLAGE CODE
OF
CHEBANSE, IL
Code current through:
Ord. 23-08, passed 11-20-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Chebanse, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 23-08, passed November 20, 2023. Ordinances of
the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CHEBANSE VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Copies Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Chebanse. This
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CHEBANSE VILLAGE CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the Village Board of Trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the Village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2019 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2019 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Reference To And Updating Code: Any ordinance amending this Code shall
set forth the title, chapter and section numbers of the section or sections to
be amended, and this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory
requirement pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of
this Code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately
forwarded to the codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared
for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of this Code. (2019 Code)
   B.   Effect On Penalties: In case of the amendment of any section of this
Code containing provisions for violation of which a penalty is provided in
another section, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to
relate to the section so amended or the amending section, whether reenacted in
the amendatory ordinance or not, unless such penalty is specifically repealed
therein. (1990 Code § 1.202)
   C.   Publication And Recordkeeping:
      1.   Within a reasonable time after the passage of amendments or
additions and at least once per year, the Village Clerk shall cause said
amendments and additions to be printed, showing thereon the date of passage and
shall insert the amendments and additions in their proper place in this Code.
      2.   These records shall be kept in addition to the record of ordinances
which the Clerk is required to keep by statute. (1990 Code § 1.203; amd. 2019
Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Village Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of
the Clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the Office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the Office of the Village Clerk when directed so to do by order
of the Village Board of Trustees. (2019 Code)
1-1-5: COPIES OF CODE:
   A.   Distribution: All of the copies of this Code belonging to the Village
shall be deposited with the Village Clerk who shall deliver one copy thereof to
the Village President and each member of the Village Board of Trustees and
copies to such other persons as the Board of Trustees may direct. (1990 Code §
1.302)
   B.   Presentation To Other Bodies: The Village Board of Trustees shall have
the power to extend or reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities by
presenting them with a copy of this Code, at the expense of the Village, and
they shall also have the power to present a copy of this Code to the Illinois
Municipal League, a copy to the National Institute of Municipal Law Officers
and a copy to the Circuit Courts of Kankakee and Iroquois Counties. (1990 Code
§ 1.303)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed by the Board of Trustees prior to
the passage of this Code are hereby repealed, unless hereinafter substantially
restated word for word, in which case, any such ordinances are herewith
codified, or except such as are referred to herein as being still in force or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in following sections), from which are excluded the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Ordinances authorizing purchases;
   G.   Salary ordinances;
   H.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   I.   Ordinances establishing the Village datum;
   J.   Improvement ordinances;
   K.   Bond ordinances;
   L.   Special assessment ordinances;
   M.   Ordinances relating to sale of special assessment liens;
   N.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   O.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the Village;
   P.   The ordinances adopting Federal Social Security;
   Q.   The Municipal Service Occupation Tax; and
   R.   All special ordinances, and amendments thereof and thereto. (1990 Code
§ 1.401; amd. 2019 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against the former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings as far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment shall be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may, by consent of the part
affected, be applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinances take
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or any other ordinance. (1990 Code §
1.403; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2019 Code)
   D.   No Revival Of Repealed Ordinances: When any ordinance repealing a
former ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal
shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision.
(1990 Code § 1.405)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Compliance With Illinois Municipal Code
1-3-4: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent of the Village Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(1990 Code §§ 1.106, 1.501)
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other Village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. (2019
Code)
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever reference is made in this
Code to a Village officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as
though followed by the words "of the Village of Chebanse", and shall be taken
to mean the officer or employee of the Village having the title mentioned or
performing the duties indicated. (1990 Code § 1.105)
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
Village has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to Village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2019 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the Village Board of Trustees of
the Village of Chebanse.
CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Chebanse.
COUNTY: The Counties of Kankakee and Iroquois, State of Illinois.
ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES (ILCS): The Illinois Compiled Statutes, the latest
publication thereof.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
VILLAGE: The Village of Chebanse, Counties of Kankakee and Iroquois, State of
Illinois. (2019 Code)
1-3-3: COMPLIANCE WITH ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE:
It is the intention of the Village President and Board of Trustees that this
Code conform in all respects to the Illinois Municipal Code of the State of
Illinois, as amended. Any section of this Code not so conforming shall be read
and interpreted so as to conform. (1990 Code § 1.502)
1-3-4: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Presumption Of Liability
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
Code, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this Code shall be fined in an amount of not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any one offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      2.   Additional Penalties: In addition to the fine described in
subsection A1 of this section, the Circuit Court may impose a period of
"conditional discharge", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4,
or "court supervision", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21,
for a period of up to six (6) months, an order of restitution, an order to
perform community service, an order to complete an education program and/or any
other appropriate penalties or conditions authorized in any section of this
Code or stand alone ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set
forth in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to
time.
      3.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
Code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection,
to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      4.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The Village Attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the
Village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the
Village Attorney under this subsection A4 shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of this
Code or any ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the Criminal Laws
of the State, is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be
for a period of incarceration in the County Jail not to exceed six (6) months,
and the matter shall be prosecuted under the Rules of Criminal Procedure of the
State, and the Village shall be required to establish guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. This subsection shall not apply to Village Code provisions adopted
pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-5-1, 5/11-5-2, 5/11-5-3, 5/11-5-
4, 5/11-5-5, 5/11-5-6, 5/11-40-1, 5/11-40-2, 5/11-40-2a, 5/11-40-3, 5/11-80-
9 and 5/11-80-16.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by State Statute for the same offense. (2019 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where a duty is prescribed
or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is
forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be subject to a judgment which
may be entered upon conviction for the violation. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or
such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code. (Ord.
02-02, 4-1-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that, the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   D.   Nuisance Conditions; Violations Of Zoning Or Subdivision Regulations:
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
nuisance, or is a violation of the zoning or subdivision regulations of the
Village, in addition to any fine that may be imposed for said breach, the
Village Attorney retained by the Board of Trustees may petition for injunctive
relief to enjoin the doing of any act or the omission to do any act which
constitutes a nuisance or is a violation of the zoning or subdivision
regulations of the Village. (Ord. 02-02, 4-1-2002)
1-4-3: PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY:
The occupant of any premises and the owner of any unoccupied premises upon
which a violation of this Code is apparent, the owner of any object or material
placed or remaining anywhere in violation of this Code, and the occupant and
owner of any premises served by any excavation connection or structure
illegally made or erected shall be deemed prima facie responsible for the
violation so evidenced and subject to the penalty provided therefor. (Ord. 02-
02, 4-1-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Elections
1-5-3: Official Time
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The Corporate Seal of the Village shall consist of the following words: "The
Village of Chebanse, Ill. Corporate Seal.". (1990 Code § 9.301)
1-5-2: ELECTIONS:
Election for Village officers shall be held as is provided by statute and at
the time prescribed by statute. (1990 Code § 9.304)
1-5-3: OFFICIAL TIME:
   A.   Central standard time shall be the official time within the Village for
the transaction of all Village business. All legal or official business of the
Village shall be regulated thereby.
   B.   All clocks or other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained at the expense of the Village shall be set and run
according to the official time provided in this section, and it is hereby made
the duty of the officer or other person having control and charge of such
buildings or premises to see that the said clocks or other timepieces are set
and run in accordance with the official time as provided by this section. (1990
Code § 9.306; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election And Term
1-6-2: Bond
1-6-3: Powers And Duties
1-6-4: Designation Of Duties
1-6-5: President Pro Tem And Acting President
1-6-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The President shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until a
successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. (1990 Code §
2.101)
1-6-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of this office, the President shall execute a
bond in such amount and with such sureties as is provided by statute,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. (1990 Code § 2.108)
1-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Village,
shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Trustees and shall perform such
duties as may be required by statute or ordinance.
      2.   The President shall have supervision over all of the executive
officers and employees of the Village and shall have the power and authority to
inspect all books and records pertaining to Village affairs and kept by any
officer or employee of the Village at any reasonable time.
      3.   The President shall have general supervision of all departments of
the Village and shall from time to time take any such measures for the
preservation of the public peace and good order and for the prompt and
efficient execution of the laws of the State and the ordinances of the Village
as may be deemed most expedient and best to accomplish the purposes intended.
(1990 Code § 2.102; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Formal Occasions: The President shall act for and on behalf of the
Village on formal occasions and receptions, but in the absence or inability to
attend any such function, the President may select any other Village officer to
so act in the President's stead. (1990 Code § 2.107)
   C.   Signature: The signature of the President shall appear on all licenses
and permits granted by the authority of the Board of Trustees except as
otherwise provided by law or this Code. (1990 Code § 2.109)
   D.   Emergency Powers: The President shall be ex officio coordinator of
activities in cases of emergency resulting from any explosion, fire, flood,
riot, storm or other cause requiring concerted measures for the maintenance of
public peace and order, the preservation of life and property and the relief of
suffering or for any of these purposes. (1990 Code § 2.110)
1-6-4: DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the Village, this dispute shall be settled by the Village
President and Board of Trustees after consultation with the Village Attorney,
and the Village President and Board of Trustees shall have the power to
delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty. (1990 Code § 2.104;
amd. 2019 Code)
1-6-5: PRESIDENT PRO TEM AND ACTING PRESIDENT:
   A.   President Pro Tem: During a temporary absence or disability of the
President, the Board of Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as
President Pro Tem who, during such absence or disability, shall possess the
powers of President as is provided by statute. (1990 Code § 2.105)
   B.   Acting President: In the event of a vacancy in the Office of President,
the Board of Trustees may appoint one of the Trustees as Acting President to
serve until the vacancy is filled at a regular or special election as provided
by law. (1990 Code § 2.106)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election And Term; Functions
1-7-2: Compensation
1-7-3: Meetings
1-7-4: Rules Of Order
1-7-5: Committees
1-7-6: Resolutions, Motions And Ordinances
1-7-1: ELECTION AND TERM; FUNCTIONS:
The six (6) Village Trustees, who shall be members of the Board of Trustees,
shall be elected and serve four-year terms. The Board of Trustees shall be the
legislative division of the Village government and shall perform such duties
and have such powers as may be authorized by statute. (1990 Code § 3.101; amd.
2019 Code)
1-7-2: COMPENSATION:
The Village Trustees shall be compensated thirty five dollars ($35.00) per
official meeting attended. (2019 Code)
1-7-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular And Adjourned Meetings:
      1.   The time and place of the regular meetings of the Village Board of
Trustees shall be designated by ordinance. Provided, that if the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next day
at the same hour. Adjourned meetings may be held at such other times as the
Board of Trustees may determine. (1990 Code § 3.102)
      2.   The Village Depot, 275 N. Oak Street, Chebanse, Illinois, is
designated as the place of the regular meetings of the Village Board of
Trustees, commencing on August 4, 1997. (Ord. 97-6, 7-24-1997)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the Village Board of Trustees may
be called by the President or three (3) Trustees; provided, that public
pronouncement or written notice of such meeting shall be given to each member
of the Board of Trustees at least forty eight (48) hours before the time set
for the meeting. (1990 Code § 3.103; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Quorum: A majority of the Corporate Authorities, including the
President, shall constitute a quorum thereof, but no ordinance or measure for
the expenditure of money shall be passed except upon the favorable vote of a
majority of such members as provided by statute. (1990 Code § 3.107)
   D.   Presiding Officer:
      1.   The Village President shall preside at all meetings of the Village
Board of Trustees. The President shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or
motion except:
         a.   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie; or
         b.   Where one-half (1/2) of the Trustees elected have voted in favor
of an ordinance, resolution, or motion even though there is no tie vote; or
         c.   Where a vote greater than a majority of the Corporate Authorities
is required to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion.
      2.   In each instance specified, the President shall vote. Nothing in
this subsection shall deprive an acting President or President Pro Tem from
voting in his capacity as Trustee, but he shall not be entitled to another vote
in his capacity as acting President or President Pro Tem. (1990 Code § 3.104)
   E.   Records Of Proceedings: The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes and
records of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 3.111)
   F.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the
Board of Trustees or of any committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly
manner at such meeting. Any person violating this subsection may be ejected
from such meeting and shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor
more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. (1990 Code § 3.112)
1-7-4: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business at meetings of the Village
Board of Trustees shall be as follows:
Call to order.
Roll call.
Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of minutes of prior meetings.
Treasurer's report.
Receiving and acting upon bills and Village Clerk's report.
Unfinished business.
Reports of committees.
Reports of Village officers.
New business.
Public comment.
Adjournment.
(1990 Code § 3.201; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be
rescinded at any special meeting unless there is present at such special
meeting as many members of the Board of Trustees as were present at the meeting
when such vote or action was taken and unless each member of the Board of
Trustees who voted affirmatively shall have been given at least forty eight
(48) hours' notice of such special meeting. (1990 Code § 3.202; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Resolutions: Any resolution submitted to the Village Board of Trustees
shall be reduced to writing before being voted upon at the request of any two
(2) members of the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 3.203)
   D.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the President or a member of
the Board of Trustees shall address that body at any regular or special meeting
of the Board of Trustees except upon consent of a majority of the members of
the Board of Trustees present. (1990 Code § 3.204)
   E.   Referral Of New Topic To Committee: When any new matter is introduced
at any meeting, it shall be referred by the President, without discussion, to
the appropriate committees and lay over until the next meeting, unless, by the
consent of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Board present, the same shall
be taken up for immediate consideration. (1990 Code § 3.205)
   F.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by a majority of the members present at
any meeting. (1990 Code § 3.206)
   G.   Robert's Rules Of Order: Except when in conflict with the provisions of
this section, "Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the deliberations of the
Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 3.207)
1-7-5: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees of
the Board of Trustees:
   Committee on Buildings.
   Committee on Finance.
   Committee on License, Ordinances and Police.
   Committee on Planning.
   Committee on Streets, Alleys, Tile and Railroads.
   Committee on Water/Sewer.
(1990 Code § 3.108; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Special Committees: The Village President shall appoint such special
committees as may be deemed necessary or as may be directed by the Board of
Trustees. (1990 Code § 3.109)
   C.   Membership:
      1.   The Village President shall appoint the members of all standing and
special committees in the absence of specific direction by the Board of
Trustees and shall designate the Chair thereof.
      2.   Every committee of the Board of Trustees shall consist of three (3)
members, including the Chair, unless the Board of Trustees shall, by
resolution, provide otherwise. The President shall be an ex officio member of
each committee. (1990 Code § 3.110)
1-7-6: RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Approval; Veto: All resolutions and motions: 1) which create any
liability against a Village; or 2) which provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of its money; or 3) to sell any Village property, and all
ordinances passed by the Village Board of Trustees shall be deposited with the
Village Clerk. If the Village President approves of them, the President shall
sign them. Those of which the President disapproves, shall be returned to the
Board of Trustees, with written objections, at the next regular meeting of the
Board of Trustees occurring not less than five (5) days after their passage.
The President may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any
ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation, and if so, the
remainder shall be effective. However, the President may disapprove entirely of
an ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation. If the President
fails to return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion, with the
written objections, within the designated time, it shall become effective
despite the absence of the President's signature. (1990 Code § 3.105)
   B.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and motion
specified in subsection A of this section, and every ordinance, which is
returned to the Board of Trustees by the President shall be reconsidered by the
Board of Trustees at the next regular meeting following the regular meeting at
which the Board of Trustees receives the written objection. If, after such
reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the Trustees elected to the Board of
Trustees shall agree to pass at such regular meeting an ordinance, resolution
or motion, notwithstanding the President's refusal to approve it, then it shall
be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the President's veto
shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the journal. (1990 Code §
3.106; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Scope
1-8-2: Appointments; Term; Vacancies
1-8-3: Oath; Bond; Salaries
1-8-4: Assignment Of Duties
1-8-5: Monies Received
1-8-6: Inspection Of Records
1-8-7: Conservators Of The Peace
1-8-8: Books And Records To Successor
1-8-9: Reimbursement Of Expenses
1-8-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all officers and employees of the
Village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or position or
the time of the appointment of the officer or employee. (1990 Code § 9.101)
1-8-2: APPOINTMENTS; TERM; VACANCIES:
   A.   Appointments: All officers, other than elective officers, shall be
appointed by the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board of Trustees, as is provided by statute; provided, that all employees
shall, in the absence of any provision to the contrary, be appointed or
selected by the Village President. (1990 Code § 9.102)
   B.   Term Of Office: Every appointive officer of the Village shall hold
office until May 1 following his appointment or until a successor is appointed
and qualified, unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance.
   C.   Vacancies: In case of a vacancy in any such office, it shall be filled
in the same manner as which appointments or selections are made in the absence
of provisions to the contrary. (1990 Code § 9.103)
1-8-3: OATH; BOND; SALARIES:
   A.   Oath: Every officer of the Village shall, before entering upon his
duties, take the oath prescribed by statute. (1990 Code § 9.105)
   B.   Bond: Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Board of
Trustees upon entering the duties of his office, give a bond in such amount and
with such sureties as may be determined by the Village Board of Trustees,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office or
position. (1990 Code § 9.109)
   C.   Salaries: All officers and employees of the Village shall receive such
salary as may be from time to time provided by ordinance. (1990 Code § 9.106)
1-8-4: ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES:
The Village President and Board of Trustees shall have the power to assign to
any appointive officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some
other specific officer and shall determine disputes or questions relating to
the respective powers or duties of officers. (1990 Code § 9.107; amd. 2019
Code)
1-8-5: MONIES RECEIVED:
Every officer of the Village shall, at least once each month, turn over all
monies received thereby in his official capacity to the Village Clerk with a
statement showing the source from which the same was received. (1990 Code §
9.104; amd. 2019 Code)
1-8-6: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
All records kept by any officer of the Village shall be open to inspection by
the Village President or any member of the Village Board of Trustees at all
reasonable times whether or not such records are required to be kept by statute
or ordinance. (1990 Code § 9.108)
1-8-7: CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE:
After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful completion of a
training course administered by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards
Board, the Village President, Village Clerk and Village Trustees are hereby
declared to be conservators of the peace with such powers to make arrests as
are given to conservators of the peace by statute. (1990 Code § 9.110; amd.
2019 Code)
1-8-8: BOOKS AND RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR:
Within five (5) days after written notification and request, a person who has
been an officer of the Village shall deliver to the successor in office all
property, books, and effects in the former officer's possession, belonging to
the Village. A former officer who violates this section is liable for all the
damages caused by the violation and is subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this title. (1990 Code § 9.111; amd. 2019 Code)
1-8-9: REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES:
   A.   Recitals Incorporated: The recitals set forth herein shall be and are
hereby incorporated as findings of fact as if said recitals were fully set
forth herein.
   B.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   PUBLIC BUSINESS: Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the Village to carry out the
responsibilities of Village business.
   TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the Village or by wards or charges of the Village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   C.   Categories And Amounts Of Reimbursement:
      1.   The Village shall only reimburse the following types of travel,
meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the
following maximum allowable amounts: Reimbursement rate is that of the U.S.
General Services Administration as outlined and updated annually at www.gsa.gov
for mileage, per diem within Illinois, per diem for outside of Illinois,
lodging expenses within Illinois, and lodging expenses outside of Illinois.
      2.   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   D.   Use Of Form Required: No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging
expenses incurred by a Village employee or officer shall be authorized unless
the "Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form", on file in
the Village, has been submitted and approved. All documents and information
submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act 1 .
   E.   Excess Expenses: Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: 1) any
officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the
regulations adopted under subsection C of this section; or 2) any member of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village, may only be approved by roll call vote at
an open meeting of the Corporate Authorities of the Village. However, in the
event of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances, the Corporate
Authorities may approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set forth in
this section.
   F.   Entertainment Expenses: The Village shall not reimburse any elected
official, employee, or officer for any activities which would be considered
entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment,
but which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being
ancillary to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in
accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 16-05, 12-19-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Appointment And Term
1-8A-2: Bond
1-8A-3: Duties
1-8A-4: Vacancy In Office
1-8A-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Village President, with the advice
and consent of the Village Board of Trustees, and shall serve for a four-year
term and until a successor is appointed and qualified as is provided by
statute, said four-year term to coincide with the term of the Village
President. (1990 Code § 4.101; amd. 2019 Code)
1-8A-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Village Clerk shall execute
a bond in such amount and with such sureties as is provided by statute,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the Clerk's duties. (1990 Code §
4.102)
1-8A-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Custodian Of Village Seal: The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of
the Village Seal and shall fix its impression on documents whenever this is
required. (1990 Code § 4.106)
   B.   Signature: The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
Village and all licenses and permits and such documents as shall require this
formality. (1990 Code § 4.103)
   C.   Recordkeeping:
      1.   The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes of the Village Board of
Trustees and preserve all ordinances enacted in an ordinance book as provided
by statute. (1990 Code § 4.104)
      2.   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the
Village Clerk is required by statute to keep, the Clerk shall keep a register
of all licenses and permits issued and the payments thereon, a record showing
all of the officers and regular employees of the Village, and such other
records as may be required by the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 4.105)
      3.   The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging
to the Village which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
(1990 Code § 4.107)
   D.   Indexes: The Village Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to
all documents and records kept by the Clerk so that ready access thereto may be
had. (1990 Code § 4.108)
   E.   Publication Of Certain Ordinances: The Village Clerk shall publish all
ordinances of the Village imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment, or
forfeiture or making any appropriation by printing said ordinance in book or
pamphlet form or by newspaper publication as provided by statute as authorized
by the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 4.109)
   F.   Finance Duties:
      1.   Generally: The Village Clerk shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed by statute or ordinance. The Village Clerk shall receive all monies
paid to the Village, either directly from the person paying it or from the
hands of such officer as may receive it, and shall pay out only on vouchers or
orders properly signed by said Clerk and by the Village President. (1990 Code §
5.103)
      2.   Deposit Of Funds: The Village Clerk shall deposit the Village funds
in such depositories as may be selected from time to time as is provided by
statute, and shall keep the Village monies separate and distinct from his own
and shall not intermingle his own monies therewith or make private or personal
use of the Village funds. (1990 Code § 5.104)
      3.   Recordkeeping: The Village Clerk shall keep such records showing all
monies received, the source from which received and the purpose for which said
monies were paid out, and shall keep a record which shows at all times the
financial status of the Village. (1990 Code § 5.105)
      4.   Accounts: The Village Clerk shall keep such books and accounts as
may be required by the Board of Trustees and shall keep them in the manner
required by law. (1990 Code § 5.106)
      5.   Reports:
         a.   The Village Clerk shall make reports two (2) times a month to the
Board of Trustees showing the state of the finances of the Village and the
amounts received and spent during the month, which reports shall be filed.
(1990 Code § 5.107; amd. 2019 Code)
         b.   The Village Clerk shall make an annual report at the close of the
fiscal year with the total amount of all receipts and expenditures of the
Village and the transactions during the preceding year. (1990 Code § 5.107)
      6.   Register Of Warrants: The Village Clerk shall keep a register of all
warrants, bonds or orders filed or paid, and all vouchers as is required by
statute. (1990 Code § 5.108)
   G.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Village Clerk shall perform such other duties and functions which may be
required by statute or ordinance. (1990 Code § 4.110)
1-8A-4: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In case the Office of Village Clerk shall become vacant for any reason, the
Village President shall appoint a successor, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, as is provided by statute. (1990 Code § 4.111)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Retention Of Counsel
1-8B-2: Duties
1-8B-1: RETENTION OF COUNSEL:
The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
shall retain an attorney from time to time to represent or advise the Village
on legal matters, and may likewise retain special counsel to advise or
represent the Village on special matters or to assist the Village Attorney.
(1990 Code § 6.101)
1-8B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Suits And Actions: The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend any
and all suits or actions at law or equity to which the Village may be a part,
or in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any
officer of the Village on behalf of the Village or in the capacity of such
person as an officer of the Village, and shall be entitled to reasonable
compensation therefor, in addition to any retainer fee. (1990 Code § 6.102)
   B.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to see to the
full enforcement of all judgments or decrees entered in favor of the Village,
and of all similar interlocutory orders, and shall be entitled to reasonable
compensation therefor, in addition to any retainer fee. (1990 Code § 6.103)
   C.   Legal Advice: The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the
Village and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the Village
whenever requested to do so by a Village official. Upon request by the Village
President or the Village Board of Trustees, the Village Attorney shall reduce
any such opinion to writing. (1990 Code § 6.104)
   D.   Special Assessments And Condemnations: It shall be the duty of the
Village Attorney to see to the completion of all special assessment proceedings
and condemnation proceedings and shall be entitled to reasonable compensation
therefor, in addition to any retainer fee. (1990 Code § 6.105)
ARTICLE C. MAINTENANCE LIAISON
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Duties
1-8C-2: Compensation
1-8C-1: DUTIES:
The maintenance liaison of the Village shall be responsible for relaying all
information regarding maintenance for the Village between the Village Board of
Trustees and the maintenance employees, supervise programs and projects, advise
the Village Board, and perform other duties and functions designated by the
Village Board. (Ord. 12-05, 4-16-2012, eff. retroactive to 4-2-2012)
1-8C-2: COMPENSATION:
The maintenance liaison of the Village shall be paid an hourly wage of nineteen
dollars eighty nine cents ($19.89), with a seven and one-half percent (7.5%)
contribution to nationwide retirement. (Ord. 12-05, 4-16-2012, eff. retroactive
to 4-2-2012; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Interpretation
1-9-4: Prohibited Acts
1-9-5: Penalties
1-9-6: Amendments
1-9-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-9-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of sections 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the State Officials
and Employees Ethics Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the Village to
the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 04-18, 9-
20-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40.
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 04-18,
9-20-2004)
1-9-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of Village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 04-18, 9-20-2004)
1-9-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act by any officer or any employee of the Village is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
any officer or employee of the Village under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the Act by any officer or employee of the Village is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 04-18, 9-20-2004)
1-9-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the Act. (Ord. 04-18, 9-20-2004)
1-9-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the Village shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the Village. (Ord. 04-18, 9-20-2004)
1-9-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the Corporate Authorities of the Village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   B.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act, as adopted by
this chapter, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
(Ord. 04-18, 9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 10
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definition
1-10-2: Sexual Harassment Prohibited
1-10-3: Conduct Which May Constitute Sexual Harassment
1-10-4: Reporting An Allegation
1-10-5: No Retaliation
1-10-6: Consequences Of Violations
1-10-1: DEFINITION:
This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of
sexual nature when:
1. Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or
condition of an individual's employment,
2. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the
basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
3. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an
individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive
working environment.
(Ord. 18-06, 11-19-2018)
1-10-2: SEXUAL HARASSMENT PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VI of
the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right
to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is
unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village to prohibit harassment of any
person by any Village official, Village agent, Village employee or Village
agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Village officials, Village
agents, Village employees, and Village agencies or offices are prohibited from
sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or
lack thereof. (Ord. 18-06, 11-19-2018)
1-10-3: CONDUCT WHICH MAY CONSTITUTE SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Nonverbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, internet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   B.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person". (Ord. 18-06, 11-19-2018)
1-10-4: REPORTING AN ALLEGATION:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel:
         a.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a Director of Human Resources, an Ethics
Officer, a Village Manager or Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of
the Village.
         b.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
assault harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct.
If there are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the Village will not be presumed to have knowledge of the
harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside The Village: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Village. However, all Village employees have the right to contact the Illinois
Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint within
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must also be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
Village. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 18-
06, 11-19-2018)
1-10-5: NO RETALIATION:
   A.   No Village official, Village agency, Village employee or Village office
shall take any retaliatory action against any Village employee due to a Village
employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy;
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in terms or conditions of employment of any Village employee that is
taken in retaliation for a Village employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection
from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following: (Ord. 18-06, 11-19-2018)
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, Village agency, or
other Village employee that the Village employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule or regulation;
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, Village agency or other Village
employee; or (Ord. 18-06, 11-19-2018; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate
against an employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation 3 .
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights
violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people, to conspire to retaliate
against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC may file a
retaliation charge, either due within three hundred (300) days of the alleged
retaliation. (Ord. 18-06, 11-19-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/1 et seq.
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 1. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-10-6: CONSEQUENCES OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Sexual Harassment: In addition to any and all other discipline that may
be applicable pursuant to Village policies, employment agreements, procedures,
employee handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who
violates this policy or the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by
the Village, and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to
local ordinance, State law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a
separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the Village shall be separate and
distinct from any penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or
penalties imposed by a court of law or a State or Federal agency. Any person
found guilty or liable by a State or Federal court, criminal or civil, of a
violation of this policy shall be immediately discharged from employment.
   B.   Making A False Report:
      1.   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven.
      2.   Given the seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false
or frivolous report is a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary
action. Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge
pursuant to applicable Village policies, employment agreements, procedures,
employee handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreements. Any person found
guilty or liable by a State or Federal court, criminal or civil, of making a
false report as described in this subsection shall be immediately discharged
from employment.
      3.   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any
person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 18-06, 11-19-2018)
CHAPTER 11
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-11-1: Recitals Incorporated
1-11-2: Program Adopted
1-11-3: Reviews And Updates To Program
1-11-1: RECITALS INCORPORATED:
The Corporate Authorities of the Village hereby find that all of the recitals
contained herein are true, correct and complete, and are hereby incorporated by
reference hereto and made a part hereof. (Ord. 09-07, 11-2-2009)
1-11-2: PROGRAM ADOPTED:
The Identity Theft Prevention Program for the Village, a copy of which is on
file in the Village as exhibit A and incorporated by reference herein, is
hereby adopted and approved. (Ord. 09-07, 11-2-2009)
1-11-3: REVIEWS AND UPDATES TO PROGRAM:
The Village Clerk shall periodically review and update the program to reflect
changes and risks to customers from identity theft and may amend the policy as
required to mitigate identity theft risks to customers. (Ord. 09-07, 11-2-2009)
CHAPTER 12
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-12-1: Plan Adopted
1-12-2: Effect Of Plan Restricted
1-12-1: PLAN ADOPTED:
The Comprehensive Plan adopted and incorporated herein by reference is hereby
adopted and approved as the Official Comprehensive Plan of the Village. (Ord.
98-02, 2-16-1998)
1-12-2: EFFECT OF PLAN RESTRICTED:
The adoption of the Village Comprehensive Plan in no way affects the present
Village zoning and subdivision ordinances, and said ordinances, as from time to
time amended, shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 98-02, 2-16-1998)
CHAPTER 13
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Duties Of An Auditing Official
1-13-4: Duties Of An Employee
1-13-5: Defend Trade Secrets Act (18 USC § 1836) Compliance
1-13-6: Employee Acknowledgment
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
The Village of Chebanse provides whistleblower protection in two (2) important
areas: confidentiality and against retaliation. The confidentiality of a
whistleblower will be maintained to the extent allowable by law, however, an
identity may have to be disclosed to conduct a thorough investigation, to
comply with the law and to provide accused individuals their legal rights of
defense. A whistleblower may also waive confidentiality in writing. The
Municipality will not retaliate against a whistleblower. This includes, but is
not limited to, protection from retaliation in the form of an adverse
employment action such as termination, compensation decreases, or poor work
assignments and threats of physical harm. Any whistleblowers who believe they
are being retaliated against must submit a written report to the State's
Attorney within sixty (60) days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action.
The right of a whistleblower for protection against retaliation does not
include immunity for any personal wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated.
(Ord. 21-06, 8-16-2021)
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
               Any elected, appointed or employed individual, by whatever name, in the
               Municipality whose duties may include receiving, registering and investigating
               complaints and information concerning misconduct, inefficiency and waste within
               the Municipality; investigating the performance of officers, employees, functions
AUDITING       and programs; and promoting economy, efficiency, effectiveness and integrity in
OFFICIAL:      the administration of the programs and operations of the Municipality.
               1.   The Auditing Official shall be the State's Attorney until replaced by the
               Municipality.
               2.   If the Municipality does not designate an Auditing Official, the Auditing
               Official defaults to the State's Attorney of Kankakee/Iroquois County.
               Anyone employed by the Municipality, whether in a permanent or temporary
               position, including full-time, part-time and intermittent workers. Employee also
EMPLOYEE:      includes members of appointed boards or commissions, whether paid or unpaid.
               Employee also includes persons who have been terminated because of any report or
               complaint submitted under 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/4.1.
               Any action by an employee of the Municipality; an appointed member of a board,
               commission or committee; or, an elected official of the Municipality that is
               undertaken in violation of a federal or state law or local ordinance; is an abuse
               of authority; violates the public's trust or expectation of their conduct; is of
               substantial and specific danger to the public's health or safety; or, is a gross
               waste of public funds. The action need not be within the scope of the employee's,
IMPROPER       elected officials, board member's, commission member's or committee member's
GOVERNMENTAL   official duties to be subject to a claim of "improper governmental action."
ACTION:        1.   Improper governmental action does not include the Municipality's personnel
               actions, including, but not limited to employee grievances, complaints,
               appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments, reassignments, reinstatements,
               restorations, re-employment, performance evaluations, reductions in pay,
               dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands or violations of collective
               bargaining agreements, except to the extent that the action amounts to
               retaliation.
               Any adverse change in an employee's employment status or the terms and conditions
               of employment that results from an employee's protected activity under 50
RETALIATE,     Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/4.1. Retaliatory action includes, but is not
RETALIATION or limited to, denial of adequate staff to perform duties; frequent staff changes;
RETALIATORY    frequent and undesirable office changes; refusal to assign meaningful work;
ACTION:        unsubstantiated letters of reprimand or unsatisfactory performance evaluations;
               demotion; reduction in pay; denial of promotion; transfer or reassignment;
               suspension or dismissal; or other disciplinary action made because of an
               employee's protected activity under 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/4.1.
               An employee, as defined in this section, of the Municipality who:
               1.   Reports an improper governmental action as defined under 50 Illinois
               Compiled Statutes 105/4.1;
WHISTLEBLOWER: 2.   Cooperates with an investigation by an Auditing Official related to a report
               of improper governmental action; or
               3.   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an improper
               governmental action. (Ord. 21-06, 8-16-2021)
 
1-13-3: DUTIES OF AN AUDITING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Each Auditing Official shall establish written processes and procedures
consistent with the terms of this policy and best practices for investigations
for managing complaints filed under 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/4.1. Each
Auditing Official shall investigate and dispose of reports of improper
governmental action in accordance with these processes and procedures, and all
other provisions of 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/4.1.
   B.   Each Auditing Official must provide each employee a written summary or
a complete copy of 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/3.1 upon commencement of
employment and at least once each year of employment. At the same time, the
employee shall also receive a copy of the written processes and procedures for
reporting improper governmental actions from the applicable Auditing Official.
   C.   Auditing Officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or expenses
incurred, promote or provide some other form of restitution.
   D.   In instances where an Auditing Official determines that restitution
will not suffice, the Auditing Official may make their investigation findings
available for the purposes of aiding in that employee's, or the employee's
attorney's, effort to make the employee whole.
   E.   Auditing Officials are responsible for reading the full context of 50
Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/4.1 and complying with all requirements.
   F.   If no Auditing Official is designated, the State's Attorney of
Kankakee/Iroquois Counties will be the default Auditing Official. (Ord. 21-06,
8-16-2021)
1-13-4: DUTIES OF AN EMPLOYEE:
   A.   All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly
submitted to the Auditing Official who is responsible for investigating and
coordinating corrective action.
   B.   If an employee has knowledge of, or a concern of, improper governmental
action, the employee shall make a written report of the activity to the
Auditing Official. The employee must exercise sound judgment to avoid baseless
allegations. An employee who intentionally files a false report of wrongdoing
will be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
   C.   The whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity or
for determining fault or corrective measurer's a designated Auditing Official
is charged with these responsibilities. (Ord. 21-06, 8-16-2021)
1-13-5: DEFEND TRADE SECRETS ACT (18 USC § 1836) COMPLIANCE:
Section 7(b) of the Defend Trade Secrets Act: "Immunity from Liability for
Confidential Disclosure of a Trade Secret to the Government or in a Court
Filing:
   A.   Immunity: An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable
under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade
secret that - (A) is made - (i) in confidence to a federal, state or local
government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and (ii)
solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of
law; or, (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or
other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.
   B.   Use Of Trade Secret Information In Anti-Retaliation Lawsuit: An
individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a
suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the
individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the
individual - (A) files any document containing the trade secret under seal;
and, (B) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order."
(Ord. 21-06, 8-16-2021)
1-13-6: EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
Employees are required to sign a written acknowledgment that they have
received, read and understand this policy, and to submit that acknowledgment to
the Auditing Official or other designated official of the Municipality. The
form attached to Ordinance 21-06 and incorporated herein by reference, will
satisfy this requirement upon receipt. (Ord. 21-06, 8-16-2021)
TITLE 2
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Fiscal Year
2-1-2: Surety Bonds
2-1-3: Emergency Purchases
2-1-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the Village shall begin on May 1 of each year. (1990 Code §
9.302)
2-1-2: SURETY BONDS:
Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the Village is required as a prerequisite
to exercising the duties of any office or position or for the issuance of a
license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege, the surety on
such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do business in this
State as a surety company, in the absence of specific provisions to the
contrary by ordinance. Whenever, in its opinion, additional sureties or an
additional surety may be needed on any bond to indemnify the Village against
any loss or liability because of the insolvent of the existing surety or
sureties or for any other reason, the Village Board of Trustees may order a new
surety or sureties to be secured on such bond. If such new surety or sureties
are not procured within ten (10) days from the time such order is transmitted
to the principal on the bond or assignee, the Village Board of Trustees shall
declare the bond to be void, and thereupon, such principal or assignee shall be
deemed to have surrendered the privilege or position as condition of which the
bond was required. (1990 Code § 9.305)
2-1-3: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
Emergency purchases not greater than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) may be
made in order to protect the life, health or safety of citizens. A joint
decision between the Mayor and the respective Committee Chair, for which the
purchase needs to be made, is needed to purchase emergency materials. Anyone
authorized to make emergency purchases shall be required to submit a record of
emergency purchases including receipts at the next Board meeting. All emergency
purchases must be approved by the Village Board of Trustees as required by
State law. (Ord. 12-06, 6-18-2012, eff. 6-18-2012; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
INVESTMENT POLICY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Statement Of Policy
2-2-2: Scope; Compliance Required
2-2-3: Objectives
2-2-4: Standards Of Care
2-2-5: Safekeeping And Custody
2-2-6: Suitable And Authorized Investments
2-2-7: Investment Parameters
2-2-8: Reporting
2-2-9: Exemptions From Provisions
2-2-10: Review Of And Revisions To Policy
2-2-1: STATEMENT OF POLICY:
It is the policy of the Village to invest public funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while meeting
the daily cash flow demands of the Village and conforming to all State and
local statutes governing the investment of public funds. (Ord. 12-03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-2: SCOPE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Scope: This investment policy applies to all financial assets and
investment activities governed by the Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: The financial assets of all funds accounted
for in the Village comprehensive annual financial report, including the General
Fund, Special Revenue Funds, Capital Project Funds, Debt Service Funds,
Enterprise Funds, and any other funds that may be created from time to time,
shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
12-03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-3: OBJECTIVES:
   A.   The primary objectives, in order of priority, shall be:
      1.   Legality: The investment activities shall conform with Federal,
State, and other legal requirements.
      2.   Safety Of Principal: Investments of the Village shall be undertaken
in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital and the protection
of investment principal in the overall portfolio.
      3.   Liquidity: The Village investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the Village to meet all operating requirements
which may be reasonably anticipated within each of the Village's individual
funds.
      4.   Return On Investments: The investment portfolio of the Village shall
be designed with the objective of attaining a market average rate of return
throughout budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the Village risk
constraints, the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio, and legal
restrictions for the return on investment.
   B.   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the Village needs for safety, liquidity, rate on investment,
diversification, and general performance. (Ord. 12-03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-4: STANDARDS OF CARE:
   A.   Prudence:
      1.   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the "prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in accordance with written
procedures and this investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be
relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security's credit risk or
market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a
timely fashion, and the liquidity and the sale of securities are carried out in
accordance with the terms of this chapter.
      2.   Investments shall be made with judgment and care under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their principal as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   B.   Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest: In addition to the prohibitions
contained in the Public Funds Investment Act, officers and employees involved
in the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that
could conflict with the proper execution of the investment program, or which
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose to the Village Board of Trustees any
material financial interests in financial institutions that conduct business
with the Village, and they shall further disclose any large personal financial
or investment positions that could be related to the performance of the Village
portfolio.
   C.   Management And Administration Of Program: The establishment of
investment policies is the responsibility of the Village Board of Trustees.
Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program of the
Village is hereby delegated to the Village Clerk who shall establish written
procedures for the operation of the investment program consistent with this
investment policy. Such procedures shall include explicit delegation of
authority to persons responsible for investment transactions. No person may
engage in any investment transaction except as provided under the terms of this
policy and the procedures established by the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk
shall be responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a
system of internal controls to safeguard Village assets. The Village Clerk may
from time to time amend the written procedures in a manner not inconsistent
with this chapter or with State law.
   D.   Maintaining Public Trust: All participants in the investment process
shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the public trust and shall avoid
any transactions that might impair public confidence in the Village. (Ord. 12-
03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-5: SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY:
   A.   Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions: The Village Clerk will
maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
   B.   Internal Controls: The Village Clerk shall establish and maintain an
internal control structure designed to prevent losses of public funds arising
from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated
changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees and officers of
the Village. The internal control structure shall be designed to provide
reasonable assurance that these objectives are met. The internal controls shall
address the following points: 1) control of collusion; 2) separation of
transaction authority from accounting; 3) custodial safekeeping; and 4) written
confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and wire transfers.
   C.   Delivery Versus Payment: Except for commercial paper, all security
transactions entered into by the Village shall be conducted on a delivery
versus payment (DVP) basis. Securities shall be held by a third party custodian
designated by the Village Clerk and evidenced by safekeeping receipts. (Ord.
12-03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-6: SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS:
   A.   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in the
Illinois Statutes regarding the investment of public funds. Investments shall
be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund type being invested.
   B.   It is the policy of the Village to require that funds on deposits in
excess of FDIC insurable limits be secured by some form of collateral,
witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent third party
institution in the name of the Village. (Ord. 12-03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-7: INVESTMENT PARAMETERS:
   A.   Diversification: It is the policy of the Village to diversify its
investment portfolio in the spirit of eliminating the risk of loss resulting in
over concentration in a specific maturity, issuer, or class of securities. The
Village shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based on the
type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds. Diversification
can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested in, and length of
maturity.
   B.   Maximum Maturities: To the extent possible, the Village will attempt to
match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched
to a specific cash flow requirement, or controlled by specific ordinance, the
Village will not directly invest in securities maturing more than five (5)
years from the date of purchase. (Ord. 12-03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-8: REPORTING:
   A.   Methods: The Village Clerk shall submit to the Village Board of
Trustees, at least quarterly, an investment report which shall describe the
portfolio in terms of types, percentages, and amounts of investments by fund. A
monthly report shall be produced listing type, institution, fund, and book
value. This report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and available on
request.
   B.   Statement Of Portfolio Market Value: A statement of the market value of
the portfolio shall be issued to the Village Board of Trustees quarterly.
   C.   Performance Standards: This investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a market average rate of return during budgetary and economic
cycles, taking into account the Village investment risk constraints and cash
flow needs. Portfolio performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar
maturity, liquidity, and credit quality as the portfolio. The basis to be used
by the Village to determine whether market yields are being achieved shall be
the six-month U.S. Treasury bill. (Ord. 12-03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Any investment held by the Village on or before the effective date hereof shall
be exempted from the requirements of this chapter. At maturity or liquidation,
such monies shall be reinvested only in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 12-
03, 3-5-2012)
2-2-10: REVIEW OF AND REVISIONS TO POLICY:
This policy shall be reviewed from time to time, and any revisions made thereto
shall be presented to the Village Board of Trustees for their approval. (Ord.
12-03, 3-5-2012)
CHAPTER 3
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Title
2-3-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
2-3-3: Definitions
2-3-4: Notice Requirements
2-3-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
2-3-6: Application Of Tax Payments
2-3-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
2-3-8: Audit Procedure
2-3-9: Appeals
2-3-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
2-3-11: Installment Contracts
2-3-12: Statute Of Limitations
2-3-13: Voluntary Disclosure
2-3-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
2-3-15: Review Of Liens
2-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001,
eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the Village
procedures in connection with all of the Village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the Village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 01-01,
1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ACT: The Local Government Taxpayer's Bill of Rights Act.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The Village of Chebanse President and Board of Trustees.
HEARING OFFICER: An administrative individual appointed by the Village of
Chebanse's President, with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, to
conduct hearings and to issue final determinations regarding the collection of
all locally imposed and administered taxes.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The Village President and Board of Trustees are
charged with the administration and collection of the locally imposed and
administered taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are
authorized by the Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax
Administrator's stead. The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to
implement the terms of this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The
exercise of such authority by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be
inconsistent with this chapter and the Act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the Village
that is collected or administered by the Village not an agency or department of
the State. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the Property Tax Code or fees collected by the Village of Chebanse other than
infrastructure maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the Village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the Village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
Village.
VILLAGE: The Village of Chebanse, Illinois. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-
2001; amd. 2019 Code)
2-3-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the Local
Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail or overnight mail, addressed to the persons
concerned at the persons' last knows address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
Village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   A.   Physically received by the Village on or before the due date; or
   B.   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable
U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the
Village, with adequate postage prepaid. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The Village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the tax at the time of payment or
if the taxpayer paid the tax under duress. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-
2001)
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The Village shall not grant a credit or refund
of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person
who has not paid the amounts directly to the Village. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001,
eff. 1-3-2001; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the Village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the Local Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the Village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the Village. If the taxpayer
or Tax Collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the Village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001,
eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The Local Tax Administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the Local Tax Administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligation of the Village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
Local Tax Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis for the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the Local Tax
Administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a Tax Collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the Local Tax
Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or Tax Collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment, or other bill sent, the tax must
be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The Village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be
twelve percent (12%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five
(365) days and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of twelve percent (12%) of the amount of taxes required to be shown as
due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of twelve percent
(12%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the Village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to ten percent (10%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The Local Tax Administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the Local Tax Administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 01-01, 1-
3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The Village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen-day period or fails
to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the
Local Tax Administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The Village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the Village,
the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the taxes due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed. (Ord.
01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001; amd. 2019 Code)
2-3-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001,
eff. 1-3-2001; amd. 2019 Code)
2-3-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk's Office. (Ord. 01-01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
2-3-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the Village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 01-
01, 1-3-2001, eff. 1-3-2001)
CHAPTER 4
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Tax Imposed
2-4-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
2-4-4: Tax Returns
2-4-5: Resales
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
Village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois Department of Revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the Village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel termination
point within the Village that has imposed a tax under this chapter and charges
for the portion of the inter-office channels provided within the Village.
Charges for that portion of the inter-office channel connecting two (2) or more
channel termination points, one or more of which is located within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, shall be determined by the retailer by
multiplying an amount equal to the total charge for the inter-office channel by
a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of channel termination points
that are located within the jurisdictional boundary of the Village and the
denominator of which is the total number of channel termination points
connected by the inter-office channel. Prior to January 1, 2004, any method
consistent with this paragraph or other method that reasonably apportions the
total charges for inter-office channels among the municipalities in which
channel termination points are located shall be accepted as a reasonable method
to determine the taxable portion of an inter-office channel provided within the
Village for that period. However, "gross charge" shall not include any of the
following:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter; 2) the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act; 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
Internal Revenue Code; 4) 911 surcharges; or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public
Utilities Act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois Commerce
Commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the Public Utilities Act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
Village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable Federal Income Tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices;
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act; or
   J.   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: 1) those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable; 2) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and 3) the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this State.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this State.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the Federal and State governments, including State universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this State.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this State,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this State in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this State.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this State,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this State under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this State.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the Federal and State governments, and
State universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who, individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees, engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the Village and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: A. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed thereto, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations.
   B.   The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission.
   C.   "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of telecommunications
by a telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the
service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who
originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications. Carrier access
charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities,
and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision of, used as a
component of, or integrated into end to end telecommunications service shall be
nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall
not be considered "telecommunications" subject to the tax imposed under this
chapter. For purposes of this definition, "prepaid telephone calling
arrangements" means that term as defined in section 2-27 of the Retailers'
Occupations Tax Act. (Ord. 04-19, 10-4-2004; amd. 2019 Code)
2-4-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in the
Village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 0.25 percent of
the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in the
Village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 0.25 percent of
the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or privilege that
is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this State.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution and
Statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the Village.
(Ord. 04-19, 10-4-2004)
2-4-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this State and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid and, if unpaid, is
recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale at
retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 04-19, 10-4-2004)
2-4-4: TAX RETURNS:
On or before the last day of February, and on or before the last day of every
month thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunications
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act (Public Act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
Act. (Ord. 04-19, 10-4-2004)
2-4-5: RESALES:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in subsections A and B of this section, the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications in this State shall
not be made tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the
person has an active resale number from the department and furnishes that
number to the retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any
sale to such person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 04-
19, 10-4-2004)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Application For License And Permit
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms And Signatures
3-1-4: Investigation Of Applicant
3-1-5: License And Permit Fees
3-1-6: Termination Of License
3-1-7: Posting License; Vehicle Tag
3-1-8: Building And Premises Requirements
3-1-9: Change Of Location
3-1-10: Nuisance Businesses Prohibited
3-1-11: Inspections And Tests
3-1-12: Revocation Of License Or Permit
3-1-13: Penalty
3-1-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND PERMIT:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of provisions to the contrary.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by this Code or as may be needed for the proper guidance of Village
officials in the issuing of the permit or license applied for. (1990 Code §
11.101; amd. 2019 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee, or partner holding
forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits patronage
therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform any part of
such business or occupation in the Village. (1990 Code § 11.102)
3-1-3: FORMS AND SIGNATURES:
   A.   Forms: Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor
shall be prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk. (1990 Code § 11.103)
   B.   Signatures: Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of
the Village President and the Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to
the contrary. (1990 Code § 11.104)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where this
Code necessitates an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt.
   B.   The officer charged with the duty of making an investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10)
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof.
   C.   The officer shall make or cause to be made an investigation in regard
to such license or permit in connection with the care and handling of food and
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, for the protection of
health.
   D.   No license or permit of any nature whatsoever shall be issued by the
Village of Chebanse. No Village services such as limb or branch removal, use of
exempt water meter, 50/50 sidewalk replacement program, or use of the Village
sign will be offered to any person or entity who is indebted to the Village, or
to any department thereof, or who is indebted to the Village for any fine or
penalty adjusted against such person for the violation of any ordinance of the
Village, unless indebtedness or the fine penalty is first paid. (1990 Code §
11.105; amd. Ord. 18-05, 10-15-2018; 2019 Code; Ord. 20-05, 7-20-2020)
3-1-5: LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES:
In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor is made to
the Village Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business until
after the expiration of part of the current license year, the license fee shall
be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business has been or will be pursued. Except as otherwise
provided, all license fees shall become a part of the Corporate Fund. (1990
Code § 11.106)
3-1-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on April 30 of each year where no provision
to the contrary is made. (1990 Code § 11.107)
3-1-7: POSTING LICENSE; VEHICLE TAG:
   A.   Posting License: It shall be the duty of any person conducting a
licensed business in the Village to keep the license posted in a prominent
place on the premises used for such business at all times. (1990 Code § 11.113)
   B.   Vehicle Tag: Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis of a
license fee, the Village Clerk shall furnish each licensee with a tag or
sticker for each vehicle covered by the license, and such tag or sticker shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle while it is in use. (1990
Code § 11.114)
3-1-8: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the ordinances of the
Village. (1990 Code § 11.108)
3-1-9: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act,
may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the Village
Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided, that there is
compliance with the building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the
Village. (1990 Code § 11.109)
3-1-10: NUISANCE BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1990 Code § 11.110)
3-1-11: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:
   A.   Whenever inspection of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation is provided for or required by
ordinance, or is reasonably necessary thereto to secure compliance with any
ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
Village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   B.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violation thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the Village whose
business is governed by the provision to give any authorized officer or
employee of the Village requesting the same sufficient samples of such material
or commodity for such analysis upon request.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Village
President and the Board of Trustees may revoke the license of any licensed
proprietor of any licensed business in the Village who refuses to permit any
such officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such
sample to make the inspection or to take an adequate sample of the said
commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duty in making such inspection; provided, that no license
shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee
or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the Village, stating that
such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the
inspection or to obtain the sample. (1990 Code § 11.111)
3-1-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Village
President and Board of Trustees during the life of such license or permit for
the violation by the licensee or permittee of any ordinance provision relating
to the license or permit, the subject of the license or permit, or the premises
occupied. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. (1990 Code §
11.112)
3-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 11.115; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: State Regulations Adopted
3-2-4: License Required
3-2-5: Ineligibility For License
3-2-6: Application For License
3-2-7: Bond And Insurance Requirements
3-2-8: Investigation Of Applicant; Approval Or Denial Of License
3-2-9: Classification Of Licenses; Fees
3-2-10: Additional License Fee Provisions
3-2-11: Number Of Licenses
3-2-12: Posting License
3-2-13: Expiration Of License
3-2-14: Location Restrictions
3-2-15: Change Of Location
3-2-16: Sanitary And Safety Measures
3-2-17: View Of Premises
3-2-18: Days And Hours Of Sales; Presence On Premises
3-2-19: Consumption Restrictions And Prohibitions
3-2-20: Payment For Purchases
3-2-21: Persons Under Twenty One
3-2-22: Sales To, Presence Of Certain Persons Prohibited
3-2-23: Prohibited Conduct On Premises; Exemptions
3-2-24: Temporary Permits
3-2-25: Inspections
3-2-26: Responsibility For Violations
3-2-27: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-2-28: Appeals
3-2-29: Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise indicates, the words and phrases used in this
chapter shall have the meanings given them by the definitions contained in
section 1-3 of article I, of an Act entitled "An Act Relating to Alcoholic
Liquors", enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, approved
January 31, 1934, as amended. In addition thereto, the following terms, when
used in this chapter, shall have the following meanings:
LICENSEE: Any person, firm, partnership, club, organization or corporation
receiving a license under this chapter.
PERSON: Includes any person, firm, partnership, club, organization or
corporation.
RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER: Includes any person, as defined herein, selling or
offering for sale or keeping with the intention of selling liquor at retail.
(1990 Code § 11.301; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The Village President shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall
have such powers and perform such duties as are prescribed in the Act of the
General Assembly referred to in section
3-2-1 of this chapter. (1990 Code § 11.302)
3-2-3: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED 1 :
Each and every part of "An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors", enacted by the
General Assembly of the State of Illinois (approved January 31, 1934), as the
same is or may be hereafter amended, which relates in any manner to the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor, not heretofore used or adopted by reference or
otherwise in this chapter, is hereby adopted in this section and made a part of
this chapter to the same extent and with the same legal effect as if fully set
forth herein, and any violation of such applicable and adopted provisions of
said Act shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and be subject to
penalties herein fixed. (Ord. 97-4, 3-17-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-2-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall sell, expose, offer for sale at retail, or
display within the corporate limits of the Village any alcoholic liquor without
first obtaining a license from the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (1990
Code § 11.303)
3-2-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   No license shall be issued to any person ineligible under 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-2. (1990 Code § 11.306)
   B.   Licenses shall not be issued to anyone applying as an individual unless
the following requirements are met:
      1.   The applicant must be of good moral character and be a citizen of
the United States.
      2.   The applicant is the owner of the premises for which the license is
sought or has a lease for the property effective for the entire period for
which the license is issued.
   C.   Licenses shall not be issued to partnerships making application unless
the following requirements are met:
      1.   All members of the partnership are of good moral character and are
citizens of the United States.
      2.   The partnership or, alternatively, one member of the partnership
holds title to the premises for which the license is sought or has a lease for
the property effective for the entire period for which the license is issued.
   D.   Licenses shall not be issued to corporations making application unless
the following requirements are met:
      1.   All officers of the corporation are of good moral character and are
citizens of the United States.
      2.   The corporation or, alternatively, one officer of the corporation
holds title to the premises for which the license is sought or has a lease for
the property effective for the entire period for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 13-02, 4-15-2013; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 21-07, 8-23-2021)
3-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license shall be made as required by this chapter to the
Village Clerk, accompanied by the proper fee, and shall be delivered by the
Village Clerk to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner who shall approve or
reject the same as herein provided. The application shall provide the
following:
   A.   Name, age and address of an individual applicant.
   B.   The name of the persons entitled to participate in the profits, if it
is a partnership application.
   C.   The objects, names and addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation application, and whether or not one person owns a controlling
interest in such corporation, and if so, his name and address.
   D.   The citizenship, place of birth and place of naturalization, if foreign
born, of an individual applicant.
   E.   The location and a description of the type or nature of the premises
where such liquor will be sold, served or consumed.
   F.   Whether or not any previous similar license has been applied for, the
place of application and the disposition of such application, and if revoked,
the reason therefor.
   G.   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, been
an inmate or keeper of a house of ill fame, or any offense opposed to decency
and morality.
   H.   A manager or agent is required to have the same qualifications as the
person or firm to whom the license is issued. The names of all managers shall
be listed on the application.
   I.   All applications shall be verified by the applicant or, if a
corporation, an authorized officer thereof.
   J.   The application shall be accompanied by license fee herein provided.
   K.   The proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of any
place of worship, school, hospital, home for the aged, or indigent persons, or
veterans, their spouses or children, or any medical or naval station. Said
application shall also state the nature of the establishment wherein liquor
will be served and the name of the owner of said premises.
   L.   Where the applicant is not the owner of the premises, the application
shall be accompanied by a valid lease between the owner and the applicant for a
minimum period of one year to coincide with the period for which the
application is made.
   M.   A signed statement stating the licensee will not violate any of the
laws of the Village of Chebanse, State of Illinois, or United States of America
in the conduct of the business.
   N.   A signed statement stating the licensee shall not lease from, or
directly or indirectly receive and accept from, any manufacturer, distiller,
brewer, bottler, wholesaler, jobber or distributor, or from any agent or
representative thereof, gratuitously, any money or thing of value nor shall
said licensee borrow money from or permit said person(s) to obtain directly or
indirectly any interest in the ownership, conduct or operation of the
applicant's retail liquor business. (1990 Code § 11.306; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-7: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond: The applicant shall execute a surety bond to the Village in the
penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with sureties to be approved by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, conditioned upon the faithful observance
of the provisions of this chapter and the laws of the State of Illinois and
upon the payment of all fines and costs which may be assessed against the
applicant for violation of any of the provisions hereof. (1990 Code § 11.309)
   B.   Insurance: Proof of dram shop insurance with limits of not less than
the maximum amount recoverable under the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-21, as amended from time to time, shall accompany the application.
It shall be unlawful for the licensee to permit dram shop insurance coverage to
lapse. Each day for which there is no dram shop insurance coverage shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 96-5, 10-7-1996)
3-2-8: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for liquor licenses shall be referred to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner who, together with the License Committee of the Board of
Trustees, acting as a commission, shall investigate the qualifications and
character of the applicant. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within
thirty (30) days after said application is received, approve or reject the
application. In the event the application is rejected, all fees paid by said
applicant shall be refunded. (1990 Code § 11.307; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-9: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
   A.   Class A License: A Class A regular retailer's license shall permit the
licensee to sell alcoholic liquor in packages or by drink for consumption on or
off the premises where sold. The annual license fee shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Class B License: A Class B license issued under this chapter shall
permit the licensee to sell alcoholic liquors in original packages for
consumption off the licensed premises only in retail business stores. The
annual license fee shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   C.   Class C License: A Class C license shall permit the licensee to sell
beer and wine only for consumption on the premises where sold with the purchase
of a meal. The annual license fee shall be four hundred dollars ($400.00).
(1990 Code § 11.304)
3-2-10: ADDITIONAL LICENSE FEE PROVISIONS:
   A.   The per annum fee for all licenses shall be payable on or before May 1
of each year in the form of cash, cashier's check or certified check. All
payments for a given period shall be payable in advance at the time of filing
the application therefor. (1990 Code § 11.308)
   B.   When a licensee sells or transfers the business to another, the
successor shall pay to the Village a fee of one hundred twenty five dollars
($125.00) in all cases where an existing valid license is reissued to the
successor for use at the same location, in which event, the seller/licensee
shall surrender the license for cancellation which shall include interest
thereon. The successor shall first qualify and comply with all requirements of
this chapter and pay in advance for the reissuance of the license. (1990 Code §
11.308; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-11: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The total number of licenses issued within the Village shall not exceed the
following:
 
Class Of License Number Of Licenses
Class A          6
Class B          3
Class C          2
 
(Ord. 13-01, 4-1-2013; amd. Ord. 21-01, 1-18-2021; Ord. 21-08, 8-23-2021)
3-2-12: POSTING LICENSE:
Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
immediately post and keep posted while in effect, in a conspicuous place on the
premises, the license so issued. In the event such license shall be lost or
destroyed, a duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the Village Clerk
upon direction of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (1990 Code § 11.315)
3-2-13: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
The expiration date of all licenses shall be at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on April 30 of each year. (1990 Code § 11.308)
3-2-14: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Within the Village, alcoholic liquor shall be sold, at retail only,
within any district duly zoned for business under classification of either B-
1 or B-2. (1990 Code § 11.305)
   B.   Clubs, fraternal organizations, restaurants and hotels only may be
granted licenses for the retail sale of alcoholic liquors in rooms situated on
other than the first or ground floor of any premises. (1990 Code § 11.313)
3-2-15: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   A.   The location of a licensee's place of business may not be changed
unless upon written permission first issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. No change shall be permitted except to a location permitted under
the Act referred to herein and the ordinances of the Village. (1990 Code §
11.313)
   B.   The fee to transfer use of a license from one location to another,
after permission is granted, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). No license shall
be transferred without the consent of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(1990 Code § 11.308)
3-2-16: SANITARY AND SAFETY MEASURES:
   A.   Sanitary measures for cleaning and caring for all glasses, dishes,
utensils and equipment shall be provided for by all licensees hereunder. (Ord.
97-4, 3-17-1997)
   B.   No license shall be granted to any applicant for the sale of
intoxicating liquors for consumption on the premises unless separate sanitary
facilities for men and women have been installed and provided on said premises,
and such facilities shall at all times be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, shall have hot and cold running water, and shall be in compliance
with all Village ordinances. (Ord. 97-4, 3-17-1997; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   The licensee and the employees on the premises used for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor shall comply with the provisions of the Statutes of the
State of Illinois relative to the health and cleanliness of employees selling
food and drink.
   D.   No license shall be granted to any applicant for the sale of
intoxicating liquors for consumption on the premises unless a working telephone
is installed and provided on said premises. The failure to maintain a telephone
in working order is a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 97-4, 3-17-1997)
3-2-17: VIEW OF PREMISES:
   A.   No curtains, drapes, screens, doors, partitions or view obstructing
device shall be used or built within any establishment or premises used by any
licensee for the sale of liquor, and erected for the purpose of concealment or
hiding any person or patron of such establishment.
   B.   The interior doors of said licensed premises shall, at all times during
business hours, remain unlocked, and the exterior windows shall, at all times,
be maintained in a condition so as to afford an unobstructed view of the entire
interior of said premises from the exterior thereof during the hours that
liquor is sold therein. (1990 Code § 11.318)
3-2-18: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES; PRESENCE ON PREMISES:
   A.   Alcoholic liquors may be sold or served pursuant hereto in licensed
premises during the following hours: nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., Sunday, to one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day; six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Monday through
Thursday, to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day; six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., Friday, to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day; and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M., Saturday, to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day. Provided,
however, that on New Year's Day, alcoholic liquor may be sold and consumed on
the premises until three o'clock (3:00) A.M. (Ord. 13-03, 5-6-2013; amd. 2019
Code)
   B.   No licensee shall permit any person or persons other than licensees or
employees to remain on the premises where liquor is offered for sale longer
than thirty (30) minutes after said closing hour.
   C.   The hours herein stated shall be the time prevailing in the Village,
whether daylight saving time or central standard time. (Ord. 13-03, 5-6-2013)
3-2-19: CONSUMPTION RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall bring any alcoholic liquor into any dining room of any
hotel, restaurant, club room or place where meals are served or where soft
drinks are sold for consumption or for use for mixing with or "spiking" any
alcoholic liquor or any other beverage whatsoever. (1990 Code § 11.311; amd.
2019 Code)
   B.   No owner or proprietor, or agent or employee thereof, of any
restaurant, store, or other commercial establishment inviting or permitting
public patronage shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquors on the
premises except those specifically licensed for consumption on the premises.
   C.   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public property or in any automobile or vehicle traveling
upon or parked on any street, alley or public property. (1990 Code § 11.311)
3-2-20: PAYMENT FOR PURCHASES:
Each retail sale of alcoholic liquor shall be made and payment received by the
licensee or employee at the time of sale on the premises of said licensee.
(1990 Code § 11.312; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-21: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Purchase Or Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or other place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is
sold or to have same in his or her possession. (1990 Code § 11.322)
   B.   Sale Or Delivery To Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any adult to
give, sell or deliver to any minor, directly or indirectly, any alcoholic
liquor. (1990 Code § 11.324)
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the
Village where alcoholic liquor is sold. (1990 Code § 11.323)
   D.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian to knowingly suffer or permit his or her minor child to
violate any provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code § 11.322)
3-2-22: SALES TO, PRESENCE OF CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Sales To: No licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any minor or to any intoxicated person, except as provided in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (1990 Code § 11.321; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Presence On Premises: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years,
unaccompanied by his or her parent(s) or legal guardian, and no person who is
intoxicated shall be permitted in or to loiter about any licensed premises;
provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to hotels, restaurants
where regular meals are served, stores, clubs, bowling alleys, etc., where the
selling, giving, or delivering alcoholic liquor is not the principal business
of the licensee at those premises. (1990 Code § 11.322; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-23: PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No lottery, game of chance, gambling or gaming device shall be kept or
used in any premises licensed hereunder, nor shall any licensee permit any
illegal, disorderly or immoral practices upon the premises licensed. (1990 Code
§ 11.320; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The prohibitions under this section shall not apply to any person or
entity defined under subsection 5-3C-1B of this Code. (Ord. 12-11, 8-6-2012)
3-2-24: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
   A.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the power to issue the
temporary permit for a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the sale or
dispensing of beer and/or other alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the
premises at a banquet, picnic, bazaar, fair or similar private or public
assembly where food or drink is sold, served or dispensed. (1990 Code § 11.310;
amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Such a temporary permit may, in the discretion of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, be issued to a private party, club, society, fraternal or
benevolent organization not for profit and/or other duly licensed retail liquor
dealers.
   C.   Such temporary permit shall specifically state whether or not beer only
or other alcoholic beverages can be sold, served or dispensed at said event.
The temporary permit will specify the time period for which it is valid, which
shall not be longer than three (3) days.
   D.   Before the temporary permit may be issued, the applicant or owner of
the premises must show proof of valid existing dram shop insurance to cover any
liability which may be incurred on account of said event. (1990 Code § 11.310)
3-2-25: INSPECTIONS:
All licensees are hereby required to make available for inspection by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner and the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department the
premises where liquor is sold, served or consumed. (1990 Code § 11.326; amd.
2019 Code)
3-2-26: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such
owner or person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, the owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as shall the licensee and shall be subject to the same punishment as the
licensee.
   B.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager, or
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be subject to
punishment in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted personally. (1990 Code § 11.325)
3-2-27: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke
any license issued under this chapter for any one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Violation of the laws of the United States government, the laws of
the State of Illinois or any of the ordinances of the Village. (1990 Code §
11.316)
      2.   Knowingly permitting any violation of this Code upon the premises
for which the license is issued. (1990 Code § 11.316; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   Wilfully making any false statements as to a material fact in the
application for a license.
      4.   Failure of the licensee, for any cause whatsoever, to operate and
maintain a place of business at the location and on the premises pursuant to
the purpose for which the license was issued under this chapter. (1990 Code §
11.316)
      5.   Failure to keep any license issued hereunder continuously in effect
and use in an operative business during the period for which it is issued, and
when said business is abandoned, closed or for any reason becomes inoperative
for a period of thirty (30) days or more, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, in his discretion, may revoke said license. (1990 Code § 11.316;
amd. 2019 Code)
      6.   Any provision of the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., any of the rules, regulations, opinions and
administrative decisions of the Illinois Department of Revenue and/or the
Illinois Gaming Board concerning or related to the Illinois Video Gaming Act,
or any provisions of subsection 5-3C-1A of this Code. (Ord. 12-11, 8-6-2012)
   B.   Notice And Hearing: Notice of suspension or revocation shall be given
to the licensee after due consideration by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, and said suspension or revocation shall be effective unless the
licensee demands in writing a request for a hearing within three (3) days after
receiving notice. (1990 Code § 11.316.1)
3-2-28: APPEALS:
Pursuant to section 7-9 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/7-9, all appeals from the decisions of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be limited to a review of the official record of
proceedings of such Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 97-4, 3-17-1997)
3-2-29: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, and
each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Revocation or suspension of a license may be in addition to
the imposition of a fine or other penalty for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, and such revocation or suspension shall be no
defense to a prosecution for such violation. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
97-4, 3-17-1997)
CHAPTER 3
VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: Sticker Required
3-3-3: Application For Sticker
3-3-4: Term Of Sticker
3-3-5: Posting Sticker
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
The term "video gaming terminal", when used in this chapter, means any
electronic video game machine that, upon insertion of cash, electronic cards or
vouchers, or any combination thereof, is available to play or simulate the play
of a video game including, but not limited to, video poker, line up, and
blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois Gaming Board utilizing a video display
and microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or credits that
can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include a machine that directly
dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes only. (Ord. 12-
12, 8-6-2012; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3-2: STICKER REQUIRED:
No person, firm, partnership, association or corporation shall own, conduct,
manage or operate a video gaming terminal in the Village without first having
obtained a Village sticker therefor pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 12-12, 8-6-
2012)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR STICKER:
An applicant for any Village sticker under the provisions of this chapter shall
submit to the Village Clerk an application in writing, on forms provided by the
Village, along with a nonrefundable fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
video gaming terminal. (Ord. 12-12, 8-6-2012)
3-3-4: TERM OF STICKER:
Each sticker issued pursuant to this chapter shall be issued for a term not to
exceed one year. (Ord. 12-12, 8-6-2012)
3-3-5: POSTING STICKER:
Every person issued any sticker in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall immediately affix the sticker to each individual video gaming
terminal or game and hang the sticker(s) so issued in a conspicuous place on
the premises and shall keep such sticker so posted during all of the time the
video gaming terminal(s) is/are present on the premises. (Ord. 12-12, 8-6-2012)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND CENTERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Amusement Device Licensing Provisions
3-4-2-1: License Required; Separate Licenses
3-4-2-2: Application For License
3-4-2-3: Issuance Of And Restrictions On License; Contents
3-4-2-4: Transfer Of And Amendments To License
3-4-2-5: Display Of License
3-4-3: Amusement Center Licensing Provisions
3-4-3-1: License Required
3-4-3-2: Application For License
3-4-3-3: Issuance Of And Restrictions On License; Contents
3-4-3-4: Transfer Of And Amendments To License
3-4-3-5: Display Of License
3-4-4: License Fees
3-4-5: Expiration Of Licenses
3-4-6: Location Restrictions
3-4-7: Investigation Of Application
3-4-8: Renewal Of Licenses
3-4-9: False Affidavits Or Statements
3-4-10: Prohibited Practices
3-4-11: Revocation Of Licenses
3-4-12: Appeals
3-4-13: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms are defined and
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
AMUSEMENT CENTER OR ARCADE: Any establishment, place, premises, structure, or
enclosure of any design or any place of business at which five (5) or more
amusement devices are located for the use or entertainment of persons
patronizing the place of business.
AMUSEMENT DEVICE OR DEVICE(S): Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token, slug, disc, plate, card, or similar
object, or upon payment of consideration, which operates or may be operated by
the public generally as a game, a contest or test of skill, or other amusement
of any description. An amusement device does not include cigarette, candy, or
other similar type vending machines.
EXHIBITOR: Any person conducting business at a place of business at which four
(4) or less amusement devices are located for the use or entertainment of
persons patronizing the place of business, irrespective of the ownership of the
device or devices.
GOOD MORAL CHARACTER: The owner, exhibitor, or operator has not been convicted
of a felony, a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or any gambling
conviction or convictions within the five (5) years next preceding the date of
the application.
OPERATOR: Any person conducting business at a place of business which is an
amusement center wherein five (5) or more amusement devices are located for the
use of entertainment of persons patronizing the place of business, irrespective
of the ownership of the devices.
OWNER: Any person possessing legal title to any amusement device. (Ord. 05-01,
2-23-2005)
3-4-2: AMUSEMENT DEVICE LICENSING PROVISIONS:
3-4-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; SEPARATE LICENSES:
No person, as an owner, operator, or exhibitor, shall locate, cause to be
located, or permit any amusement device in the Village unless such amusement
device is the subject of a valid license issued by the Village Clerk. A
separate license shall be required for each amusement device displayed at any
one time by any owner, operator, or exhibitor. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license to display an amusement device, as defined in section
3-4-1 of this chapter, must be made to the Village upon such forms as shall be
prepared therefor by the Village Clerk. Each applicant for an amusement device
license shall set forth the name and address of the owner of the amusement
device, the name and address of the exhibitor, the nature and address of the
place of business at which the amusement device is to be exhibited, a
description of the amusement device sought to be licensed, including the name,
make, model, and serial number of such device, and any other information as the
Village may reasonably require. There shall be filed with each application for
an amusement device license, affidavits of the owner and the exhibitor as to
their good moral character and the truth of the information set forth in the
application for the amusement device license. Applications for more than one
amusement device may be submitted on the same application form. (Ord. 05-01, 2-
23-2005)
3-4-2-3: ISSUANCE OF AND RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE; CONTENTS:
The Village Clerk is authorized to issue amusement device licenses upon
approval by the Village Board of Trustees. The amusement device license shall
set forth the name and address of the owner of the amusement device, the name
and address of the exhibitor, the nature and address of the place of business
at which the licensed amusement device is to be located, the fiscal year for
which such license is issued, and any other information as reasonably may be
required by the Village. No amusement device license shall issue unless:
   A.   The exhibitor of the amusement device to be licensed has properly filed
the application for the amusement device license and affidavits as required in
section
3-4-2-2 of this section
3-4-2.
   B.   The fee required by section
3-4-4 of this chapter has been paid.
   C.   The Village Clerk has found that the exhibitor and owner are of good
moral character, as defined in section
3-4-1 of this chapter.
   D.   The amusement device to be licensed is not held, exhibited, or operated
contrary to the provisions of the laws of the State of Illinois, this Code, or
the requirements of this chapter.
   E.   The Village Clerk has determined that there exists no other reasonable
cause to deny the issuance of the amusement device license as required by the
laws of the State of Illinois, this Code, or the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-2-4: TRANSFER OF AND AMENDMENTS TO LICENSE:
   A.   An amusement device license issued to an exhibitor under the provisions
of this chapter shall not be transferred to any other person until the
transferee has complied with all requirements of this chapter and has been
issued an amusement device license.
   B.   Should the exhibitor named on an amusement device license move the
business, such license may be transferred to the licensed exhibitor's new
business location.
   C.   An amusement device license may be amended for an exhibitor therein
named to change the selection of amusement devices.
   D.   A request for a transfer as provided in subsection B of this section or
an amendment as provided in subsection C of this section must be made by the
licensed exhibitor to the Village Clerk. A transfer or amendment provided in
this section shall be granted after a determination by the Village Clerk that
such transfer or amendment does not violate the laws of the State of Illinois,
this Code, or the requirements of this chapter.
   E.   Any transfer or amendment of an amusement device license, as herein
provided, shall be requested by the exhibitor on forms prescribed by the
Village Clerk.
   F.   This section is not applicable to an amusement center. (Ord. 05-01, 2-
23-2005)
3-4-2-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each amusement device license shall be prominently displayed at the place of
business listed thereon in full view of the patrons of the business. (Ord. 05-
01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-3: AMUSEMENT CENTER LICENSING PROVISIONS:
3-4-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, as an owner or operator, shall operate an amusement center at any
place of business unless such operator holds a valid amusement center license
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter for the place of business
at which such amusement center is operated. Each amusement device located
within the amusement center shall be approved in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The Village Clerk is authorized to accept applications for the issuance of
amusement center licenses. Each application for an amusement center license
shall be submitted upon a form prescribed by the Village Clerk and shall set
forth the name and address of the owner of the amusement devices, the name and
address of the operator, if not the same as the owner, the address of the place
of business which is to be the licensed amusement center, the fiscal period for
which the amusement center license is sought, and a description of the
amusement devices sought to be licensed at the amusement center, including the
name, make, model, and serial number. If the operator filing the application
for an amusement center license is a corporation, the application for an
amusement center license shall list the names of any individual, corporation,
or other entity owning the issued and outstanding shares of any class of stock
of the corporation, including the percentage of ownership. If the operator
filing the application for an amusement center license is a partnership, the
application shall list the names of all of the partners. There shall be filed
with each application for an amusement center license affidavits of the owner
and operator, if not the same as the owner, as to their good moral character
and the truth of the information provided in the application for the license.
(Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-3-3: ISSUANCE OF AND RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE; CONTENTS:
The Village Clerk is authorized to issue amusement center licenses upon
approval by the Village Board of Trustees. Each amusement center license shall
set forth the name and address of the owner of the amusement device, the name
and address of the operator, if not the same as the owner, the address of the
place of business which is the licensed amusement center, and the fiscal year
for which such license is issued. The Village Clerk shall issue no license
unless:
   A.   The owner or operator of the amusement center to be licensed has
properly filed the application for an amusement center license and affidavits
required by section
3-4-3-2 of this section
3-4-3;
   B.   The fee required by section
3-4-4 of this chapter has been paid;
   C.   The Village Clerk has found that the owner and the operator, if not the
same as the owner, are of good moral character, as defined in section
3-4-1 of this chapter; (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
   D.   The applicant presently maintains a residence in the Village and has
maintained the residence a period of one year prior to submitting an
application; (2019 Code)
   E.   The Village Clerk has found that the amusement devices are not held,
exhibited, or operated contrary to the provisions of the laws of the State of
Illinois, this Code, or the requirements of this chapter; and
   F.   The Village Clerk has determined that there exists no other reasonable
cause to deny the issuance of the amusement center license as required by the
laws of the State of Illinois, this Code, or the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-3-4: TRANSFER OF AND AMENDMENTS TO LICENSE:
   A.   Transfer:
      1.   An amusement center license issued to an operator under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be transferred to any other person until
the transferee has complied with all requirements of this chapter and has been
issued an amusement center license by the Village Clerk.
      2.   Should the operator named on an amusement center license move his
business, such license may be transferred to the licensed operator's new
business location.
      3.   A request for a transfer, as stated in subsection A2 of this
section, must be made by the licensed operator to the Village Clerk upon forms
prescribed by the Village Clerk. A transfer shall be granted after a
determination by the Village Clerk that such transfer does not violate any laws
of the State of Illinois, this Code, the Village, or the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   Amendments: An amusement center license may be amended to reflect
additions to the selection of amusement devices. Should the addition of
amusement devices require any additional license fee pursuant to section
3-4-4 of this chapter, then a list of the additional amusement devices must be
made seven (7) days prior to the installation of such coin amusement devices to
allow for a license amendment. Any list required by this section shall include
the name, make, model, and serial number of the amusement device. (Ord. 05-01,
2-23-2005)
3-4-3-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each amusement center license shall be prominently displayed at the place of
business listed thereon in full view of the patrons of the licensed amusement
center. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The fees for an amusement device license or an amusement center license
shall be as follows:
      1.   For the license of any one or more pool tables, the annual fee shall
be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per pool table.
      2.   For the license of any and all other amusement devices including,
but not limited to, one or more pinball machines, the annual fee shall be
thirty five dollars ($35.00) per machine.
      3.   For the license of any amusement center, the fee shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per year. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The amount of the license fee for an amusement device or amusement
center shall be computed and established at the time the license is approved
and issued by the Village Clerk, and the fee, or any part thereof, shall be
nonrefundable during the annual term of the license. The person in whose name
the license is issued is responsible and liable for the payment of the license
fee. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-5: EXPIRATION OF LICENSES:
Each amusement device license or amusement center license shall expire on and
shall be renewed by July 31 following the date of issuance. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-
2005)
3-4-6: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No license shall be granted for any amusement device or amusement
center at a place where such amusement device will be displayed or the
amusement center will conduct business at a location that is within two hundred
feet (200') of the boundaries of a parcel of real estate occupied by any school
building, public library, park, playground, or place of worship.
   B.   An amusement center shall not be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the boundaries of a parcel of real estate occupied by another
amusement center.
   C.   The location or locations of an amusement center within a shopping mall
or within the boundaries of a shopping center shall not be located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of another amusement center within the same shopping
mall or shopping center.
   D.   This section shall not apply to a duly licensed amusement device or
amusement center location in existence at the time a school, public library,
park, playground, or place of worship moves or is constructed within the
distances prescribed in this section. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-7: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION:
It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to require an investigation of each
application for an amusement device or amusement center license and to
determine whether or not the place of business where the license is sought to
be located is in violation of any law, and the amusement devices comply with
the laws, ordinances, and regulations applicable thereto, and to cause an
investigation of the good moral character of the persons, as defined herein.
This investigation is to be conducted by the Village President or the Kankakee
County Sheriff's Department who shall file a written report and recommendation
of such investigation with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005; amd. 2019
Code)
3-4-8: RENEWAL OF LICENSES:
   A.   All applications for the renewal of an amusement device or amusement
center license shall be submitted to the Village Clerk not earlier than thirty
(30) days, but not less than five (5) days, prior to the expiration of the
license and shall be upon forms provided by the Village Clerk. License fees
shall accompany all applications for renewal.
   B.   If an application is timely filed pursuant to the terms of this section
and no renewal license has been issued before the expiration date of the
existing license, the applicant may continue to operate under its existing
license until a renewal license is issued or until notified that no renewal
license will be issued. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-9: FALSE AFFIDAVITS OR STATEMENTS:
Any person who knowingly swears falsely in any affidavit required to be filed
under the provisions of this chapter or makes a false statement in any
application for an amusement device or amusement center license shall be guilty
of a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-10: PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To use slugs, tokens, plates, discs, cards, or any objects other than
United States coins to operate an amusement device, except for slugs, tokens,
plates, discs, or any other object furnished by the owner of such amusement
device at the location of the owner's amusement device for use in the owner's
machines only and having no redemption in cash value other than play or
amusement; or
   B.   To use or permit the use of any such amusement device as a gambling
device or in connection with gambling. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005)
3-4-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   If at any time any licensee, or a managing officer thereof if the
licensee is a corporation, firm, partnership, or association, or the person in
charge of or managing the operation of such amusement device or amusement
center is found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or
any laws against gambling, the Village may, after a hearing of which such
licensee shall be given written notice, revoke such license. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-
2005)
   B.   If at any time there has been a breach of the peace in a one year
period at the location where said amusement device is used, and said breach of
the peace has caused any police, fire, ambulance or rescue agency or department
to respond to said breach of the peace, the Village may, after a hearing of
which such licensee shall be given written notice, revoke such license. (Ord.
05-01, 2-23-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
3-4-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person whose initial application for an amusement device or
amusement center license is denied or whose existing license is not renewed or
is revoked by the Village Clerk may appeal such decision to the Village Board,
provided notice of appeal in writing is submitted to the Village Clerk within
ten (10) days after receipt of such denial, revocation, or failure to renew.
   B.   The Village Board shall hear any appeal timely made within thirty (30)
days from the date such notice of appeal is received by the Village Clerk, and
the Village Board shall have the power to sustain, modify, or reverse such
decision. The Village Board's decision must be in writing and sent to the
license holder within fifteen (15) days after the hearing is concluded. The
decision of the Village Board shall be final. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005; amd. 2019
Code)
3-4-13: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that a violation
of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. The penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with, and
in addition to, the forfeiture of any license or right provided elsewhere in
this chapter for violation thereof. (Ord. 05-01, 2-23-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Application For Permit
3-5-3: Permit Fees
3-5-4: Review Of Application; Issuance Of Permit; Recordkeeping
3-5-5: Denial Of Permit
3-5-6: Expiration Of Permit
3-5-7: Permit To Be Exhibited
3-5-8: Unlawful Use Of Permit
3-5-9: Hours Of Peddling Or Soliciting
3-5-10: Uninvited Peddling Or Soliciting
3-5-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
3-5-12: Appeals
3-5-13: Exemptions For Charitable Organizations
3-5-14: First Amendment Solicitations
3-5-15: Penalties
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, and their derivations, when used in
this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicated a different meaning:
CHARITABLE: Means and includes the words patriotic, political, philanthropic,
social service, health, welfare, benevolent, educational, civic, cultural or
fraternal, either actual or purported.
CONTRIBUTIONS: Means and includes the words alms, money, subscription, property
or any donations under the guise of a loan or money or property.
PEDDLER: Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in the
Village, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, carrying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise or personal property of any nature and
offering the same for sale. This definition also includes any person who only
solicits orders and, as a separate transaction, makes deliveries to purchasers
as part of the scheme to evade the provisions of this chapter.
PEDDLING: Includes all activities ordinarily performed by a peddler as
indicated under the definition of peddler of this section.
PERMIT: A copy of the permit application file, stamped by the Village Clerk,
which must be in the possession of the permittee and the employees or agents of
such permittee engaging in soliciting or peddling as provided in this chapter
at all times any individual or individuals are engaging in authorized
solicitation or peddling.
PERSON: A natural person and/or the person's employee or agent, or any firm,
corporation, association, club, society or other organization.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITATION: Includes all activities ordinarily performed by a solicitor as
indicated under the definition of solicitor of this section.
SOLICITOR: Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
the Village, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, for the purpose
of taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods or services,
tangible or intangible, goods, services, or other personal property of any
nature for future delivery, or for services to be performed in the future.
(Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Every person, and/or the employees or agents of such person, subject to the
provisions of this chapter shall, prior to entering upon the premises of any
private residence within the Village, file with the Village Clerk an
application for a permit in writing on a form to be furnished by the Village
Clerk, a copy of which is on file in the Village as exhibit A, which shall
provide the following information: (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013; amd. 2019 Code)
   A.   Proof of age, address and identity of the applicant, and/or the
employees or agents of such applicant, to be provided through the production of
a driver's license and, where applicable, documented proof of employment and/or
agency.
   B.   A brief description of the business or activity to be conducted.
   C.   The hours and location for which the right to peddle or solicit are
desired.
   D.   If an employee of the applicant, the name, address and telephone number
of the employer; or if acting as an agent, the name, address and telephone
number of the principal who is being represented.
   E.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant, and/or the employees or
agents of the applicant, have been convicted of a felony involving a sex
offense, trafficking in controlled substances, any violent acts against persons
or property or any offense involving fraud or misrepresentation.
   F.   A statement whether the applicant, and/or the employees or agents of
the applicant, are persons against whom a civil judgment based upon acts
involving fraud, deceit or misrepresentation has been entered.
   G.   Proof of possession of any license or permit which, under Federal,
State or local laws or regulations, the applicant, and/or the employees or
agents of the applicant, are required to have in order to conduct the proposed
business or which, under any such law or regulation, would exempt the applicant
from the licensing requirements of this chapter, said licenses and permits to
include specifically, but without limitation, an Illinois Business Tax number
issued by the Illinois Department of Revenue. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-3: PERMIT FEES:
At the time the application is filed with the Village Clerk, the applicant,
and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, shall pay a fee to cover the
cost to the Village of processing the application and investigating the facts
stated therein. The permit fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the
applicant and twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each and every employee or agent
of the applicant. The permit will authorize solicitation Monday through
Saturday for six (6) consecutive working days between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
and sunset as defined by the current official time in effect in the Village.
(Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013; amd. 2019 Code)
3-5-4: REVIEW OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application, the Village Clerk, or authorized
representative, shall have seven (7) working days to review the application as
deemed necessary to ensure the protection of the public health, safety and
general welfare.
   B.   If the Village Clerk finds the application to be satisfactory, the
Clerk shall endorse his/her approval on the application and shall, upon payment
of the prescribed fee, deliver a file stamped approval of the application to
the applicant, said file stamped copy representing the permit giving the
applicant, and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, authority to
solicit or peddle, as defined in section
3-5-1 of this chapter.
   C.   A record of all applications issued shall be maintained by the Village
Clerk for a period of two (2) years. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-5: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Upon the Village Clerk's review of the application, the Village Clerk
may refuse to issue a permit to the applicant, and/or the employees or agents
of the applicant, under this chapter for any of the following reasons: (Ord.
13-07, 8-5-2013; amd. 2019 Code)
      1.   The location and time of solicitation or peddling would endanger the
safety and welfare of the solicitors, peddlers or their customers and/or
violate the day and time restrictions imposed by this chapter.
      2.   An investigation reveals that the applicant, and/or the employees or
agents of the applicant, falsified information on the application.
      3.   The applicant, and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, have
been convicted of a sex offense, delivery or possession of controlled
substances, any violent acts against persons or property or any offense
involving fraud or misrepresentation.
      4.   The applicant, and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, are
persons against whom a civil judgment has been entered based upon any acts
involving theft, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation.
      5.   There is no proof as to the authority of the applicant to serve as
an agent to the principal.
      6.   The applicant, and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, have
had an application denied under this chapter, unless the applicant, and/or the
employees or agents of the applicant, can and do show, to the satisfaction of
the Village Clerk, that the reasons for such earlier denial no longer exist.
      7.   The applicant, and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, have
previously been issued a permit by the Village and failed to comply with the
ordinances of the Village.
      8.   The applicant, and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, are
unable to show proof of possession of a license or permit which, under Federal,
State or local law, they are required to have in order to conduct their
business or profession, such license or permit to include specifically, but
without limitation, an Illinois Business Tax number issued by the Illinois
Department of Revenue.
   B.   The Village Clerk's disapproval and the reasons for disapproval shall
be noted on the application, and the applicant shall be notified that his
application is disapproved and that no permit will be issued. Notice shall be
mailed to the applicant at the address shown on the application form or at the
applicant's last known address. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-6: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
All permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire at such
date as indicated by the permit. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-7: PERMIT TO BE EXHIBITED:
Every person, and/or the employees or agents of such person, required to obtain
a permit under the provisions of this chapter shall exhibit the permit when
requested to do so by any prospective customer or any person acting under the
authority of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-8: UNLAWFUL USE OF PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the permittee, and/or the
employees or agents of such permittee, to use any permit issued under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-9: HOURS OF PEDDLING OR SOLICITING:
No permittee, and/or the employees or agents of such permittee, while
conducting the activities of a peddler or solicitor, whether licensed or
unlicensed, shall enter upon any private property, knock on doors or otherwise
disturb persons in their residences before the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and after sunset as defined by the current official time in effect on any
day activities are authorized. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013; amd. 2019 Code)
3-5-10: UNINVITED PEDDLING OR SOLICITING:
It shall be unlawful for any permittee, and/or the employees or agents of such
permittee, whether licensed or unlicensed, while conducting the business of a
peddler or solicitor, to enter upon any residential premises in the Village
where the owner, occupant or person legally in charge of the premises has
posted at the entry to the premises, or at the entry to the principal building
on the premises, a sign bearing the words "No Peddlers", "No Solicitors", or
words of similar import. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Grounds: Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked or
suspended by the Village Clerk, after notice and hearing, for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made by the permittee,
and/or the employees or agents of the permittee, in the course of conducting
solicitation or peddling activities.
      3.   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities contrary to the
provisions contained in the permit or in violation of the ordinances of the
Village.
      4.   The permittee, and/or the employees or agents of the permittee,
having a record of criminal conviction involving a sex offense, possession or
delivery in controlled substances, any violent acts against persons or property
or any offense involving fraud or misrepresentation.
      5.   The applicant, and/or the employees or agents of the applicant, are
persons against whom a civil judgment has been entered based upon any act
involving theft, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation.
      6.   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities in such a manner as
to create a public nuisance constituting a breach of the peace and/or
endangering the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice And Hearing: Notice of a hearing for revocation of a permit
issued under this chapter shall be provided in writing and shall set forth
specifically the grounds for the proposed revocation and the time and place of
the hearing. Notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the permittee at the
address shown on the permit application. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by the action or decision of the Village Clerk to
deny, suspend or revoke a permit applied for under the provisions of this
chapter shall have the right to appeal such action or decision to the Mayor and
Village Board of Trustees within fifteen (15) days after the notice of the
action or decision has been mailed to the permittee's address as shown on the
permit application form.
   B.   An appeal shall be taken by filing in person with the Village Clerk a
written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall transmit the written statement to the Mayor and
Village Board of Trustees within ten (10) days of its receipt, and the Mayor
shall set a time and place for a hearing on the appeal.
   D.   A hearing shall be set not later than thirty (30) days from the date of
receipt of the appellant's written statement.
   E.   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given to the
appellant in the same manner as provided for the mailing of notice of action or
decision.
   F.   The decision of the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees on the appeal
shall be final and binding on all parties concerned. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-13: EXEMPTIONS FOR CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS:
   A.   Any person and/or individuals or groups identified as "charitable", as
defined in section
3-5-1 of this chapter, are exempt from compliance with the terms of this
chapter save the provision restricting the hours of solicitation and/or
peddling.
   B.   Any person, and/or the employees or agents of such person, claiming to
be legally exempt from the regulations set forth in this chapter, or from the
payment of an application fee, shall, at the time of application, cite to the
Village Clerk the statute or other legal authority under which exemption is
claimed and shall present to the Village Clerk proof of qualification for such
exemption. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
3-5-14: FIRST AMENDMENT SOLICITATIONS:
Persons soliciting for causes protected by the First Amendment of the United
States Constitution shall procure a permit without payment of the prescribed
fee and shall be restricted as to hours of solicitation, that being daylight.
(2019 Code)
3-5-15: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine; Imprisonment: Any violation of this chapter may be punishable by
a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed
thirty (30) days, or both. If the person has been convicted of a violation of
this chapter within the previous period of one year, the person shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or imprisoned for not more than
ninety (90) days, or both.
   B.   Community Service: In lieu of or in addition to the penalties provided
in this section, a person in violation of this chapter may be required to
perform community service work as prescribed by the court.
   C.   Civil Remedies: In addition to any criminal enforcement, the Village or
any individual resident may pursue any available civil remedies deemed
appropriate and necessary, including specifically, but without limitation to,
injunctive relief. (Ord. 13-07, 8-5-2013)
CHAPTER 6
SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required
3-6-2: Application For License; Fee
3-6-3: Bond And Insurance Requirements
3-6-4: Term Of License
3-6-5: Vehicle Requirements
3-6-6: Disposal Of Refuse
3-6-7: Penalty
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of scavenger or the
collection or disposal of refuse or garbage, including animal, human or
vegetable refuse, or offal, other than collecting such from commercial
establishments only, without first having secured a license therefor. (1990
Code § 11.501)
3-6-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
Application for such license shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be
referred to the Village Board of Trustees. No such license shall be issued
except on order of the Board of Trustees. The fee for such license shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00) per year per truck. (1990 Code §§ 11.502, 11.507; amd.
2019 Code)
3-6-3: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond:
      1.   No scavenger license shall be issued unless the applicant therefor
shall first file a performance bond, with sureties to be approved by the
Village Board of Trustees, in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with
the Village as beneficiary, conditioned upon the licensee continuing to
properly operate the business of scavenger for the period covered by the
license on the following terms:
         a.   The licensee will have at least one vehicle in operation in
collecting garbage.
         b.   The licensee will collect garbage or refuse from each and every
resident of the Village requesting such service; provided, that such resident
or residents pay the established fee within thirty (30) days from the date of
billing for service rendered.
         c.   The collection will be made of all garbage and refuse properly
placed in suitable containers of thirty (30) gallons' or less capacity, which
container or containers must be placed by the resident in the alley, but if
there is no alley abutting the property of the resident, then at the curb or
curb line of such property; provided, that the resident shall not be delinquent
in payment as hereinbefore provided.
         d.   Collection of such garbage or refuse shall be made between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of the day or
days of the week selected by the licensee; provided, that once such day or days
of the week is/are selected, the licensee shall regularly make collection on
those day or days, and in the event the days selected fall on a legal holiday,
then the collection shall be made on the day following the holiday.
         e.   The term garbage or refuse does not include such materials as
concrete, trees, brush, bricks, sand, dirt, building materials, lumber or
similar materials.
         f.   The licensee will comply with all ordinance provisions relating
to the business and will properly dispose of all garbage and refuse collected.
         g.   The fee established at the start of the license year for garbage
and refuse collection shall not be increased during the license year without
the consent of the Village President and Board of Trustees.
         h.   A failure to comply with the provisions hereof because of
conditions, acts or occurrences beyond the control of the licensee, or
mechanical failure of equipment repaired or replaced promptly as possible,
shall not be considered a breach of these conditions.
      2.   Provided, that in lieu of such bond, the licensee may deposit cash
or direct general obligations of the Federal, State or Village government, in
the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with Village Clerk; such deposits
to be returned upon compliance with the conditions of this subsection. (1990
Code § 11.505)
   B.   Insurance: Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no license shall be
issued under the provisions of this chapter unless the applicant for such
license has first been submitted a certificate by an insurer duly authorized to
issue such policies in the State of Illinois. Such certificate shall show that
the applicant for a license has public liability insurance coverage covering
operation within the Village and that the same shall not be canceled without at
least ten (10) days' notice to the Village Clerk. Upon the cancellation or
expiration without renewal of such insurance, the license issued hereunder to
the insured shall be void. Such insurance shall be in the amount of not less
than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per person insured, not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for all personal injuries in any one
accident and not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property
damage in any one accident. (1990 Code § 11.506; amd. 2019 Code)
3-6-4: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license granted hereunder, to be effective on or after May 1, 1990, shall
be for the term from May 1 until the following April 30. Any applicant for a
license must pay the annual fee regardless of the time when the license is
issued, and no refunds will be made, and no fees will be prorated. (1990 Code §
11.508)
3-6-5: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
Any vehicle used by the scavenger shall be watertight and equipped with covers
for such portions as are used for the transportation of refuse. (1990 Code §
11.503; amd. 2019 Code)
3-6-6: DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to dispose of or store any refuse in any
place within the Village limits or within two (2) miles thereof, except with
the permission of the Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 11.504)
3-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 11.509; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 7
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Registration Required
3-7-3: Location Restrictions
3-7-4: Prohibitions
3-7-5: Stage, Separation And Railing Requirements
3-7-6: Gratuities
3-7-7: Notice Of Select Rules
3-7-8: Age Limitation
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the following meanings unless otherwise clearly indicated by the
context:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment, having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, in books, films, video cassettes
(whether viewing off premises or on premises), or magazines and other
periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
ADULT CABARET: A cabaret, bar or dance hall which features topless dancers, go-
go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainers.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any exhibition of any adult oriented motion picture, live
performance, display or dance of any type, which has as a significant or
substantial portion of such performance any actual or simulated performing of
specified sexual activities or exhibition and viewing of specified anatomical
areas, removal of articles of clothing or appearing unclothed, pantomime,
modeling, or any other personal service offered customers.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building with a capacity of less
than fifty (50) persons regularly used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty
(50) or more persons regularly used for presenting material having as a
dominant theme or presenting material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section, for
observation by patrons therein.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, proprietorship,
or other legal entity.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: A building in which persons regularly assemble for
religious worship intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship
or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any premises to which the public, patrons or
members are invited or admitted and which is so physically arranged as to
provide booths, cubicles, rooms, compartments, or stalls separate from the
common areas of the premises for the purpose of viewing adult oriented motion
pictures, or wherein an entertainer provides adult entertainment to a member of
the public, or a patron, when such adult entertainment is held, conducted,
operated or maintained for a profit, direct or indirect. A sexually oriented
business further includes, without being limited to, any adult bookstores,
adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture establishments, adult
cabarets, adult entertainment studios or any premises that is physically
arranged and used as such, whether advertised or represented as an adult
entertainment studio, rap studio, exotic dance studio, encounter studio,
sensitivity studio, modeling studio or any other term of like import.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      1.   Human genitals;
      2.   Pubic region;
      3.   Buttocks;
      4.   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
or opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal.
   B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy.
   C.   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or
female breasts. (Ord. 07-07, 7-2-2007; amd. 2019 Code)
3-7-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
The owner of a building or premises, his agent for the purpose of managing,
controlling or collecting rents, or any other person managing or controlling a
building or premises, any part of which contains an adult use, shall register
the following information with the Village Clerk:
   A.   The address of the premises.
   B.   The name of the owner of the premises and names of the beneficial
owners if the property is in a land trust.
   C.   The address of the owner and the beneficial owners.
   D.   The name of the business or establishment.
   E.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner, beneficial owner or the major
stockholders of the business or establishment.
   F.   The date of initiation of the sexually oriented business.
   G.   If the premises or building is leased, a copy of said lease must be
attached. (Ord. 07-07, 7-2-2007)
3-7-3: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sexually oriented businesses are permitted in an Industrial District;
provided, that:
      1.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property boundary of a
preexisting:
         a.   Public or private elementary or secondary school; or
         b.   Licensed daycare center; or
         c.   Place of religious worship.
      2.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business within five hundred feet (500') of the property boundary of a
preexisting:
         a.   Public park and/or community center;
         b.   Residential Zoning District; or
         c.   Another sexually oriented business.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where the sexually oriented business is conducted to the nearest property line
of the other specified use, or the centerline of the designated roadways. (Ord.
07-07, 7-2-2007)
3-7-4: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: No sexually oriented business shall be open between
the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on any given
day.
   B.   Exterior Display: No sexually oriented business shall be conducted in
any manner that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas from
any public way or from any property not registered as an adult use. This
subsection shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window or other
opening.
   C.   Liquor: No liquor license shall be issued and no liquor shall be sold
or consumed on the premises of any sexually oriented businesses on any calendar
day on which adult entertainment is provided at the licensed establishment.
(Ord. 07-07, 7-2-2007)
3-7-5: STAGE, SEPARATION AND RAILING REQUIREMENTS:
Entertainers identified in the definition of "adult cabaret" in section
3-7-1 of this chapter or similar entertainers shall perform upon a stage
elevated at least eighteen inches (18") above floor level. All parts of the
stage, or a clearly designated area thereof within which entertainers perform,
shall be a distance of at least six feet (6') from all parts of a clearly
designated area in which patrons may be present. The stage area, or the clearly
designated area thereof within which entertainers perform, shall be separated
from the area in which patrons may be located by a barrier or railing, the top
of which is at least four feet (4') above floor level. Entertainers shall
additionally stay at least six feet (6') from other entertainers on stage.
(Ord. 07-07, 7-2-2007)
3-7-6: GRATUITIES:
No patron of a sexually oriented business shall offer, and no employee of a
sexually oriented business having performed on any cabaret stage shall accept,
any form of tip or gratuity offered directly or personally to the employee by
any patron. Rather, all tips and gratuities to adult establishment employees
performing on any cabaret stage shall be placed into a receptacle provided for
receipt of such tips and gratuities by the sexually oriented business. (Ord.
07-07, 7-2-2007)
3-7-7: NOTICE OF SELECT RULES:
A sign at least two feet by two feet (2' x 2'), with letters at least one inch
(1") high, shall be conspicuously displayed on or adjacent to every cabaret
stage stating: (Ord. 07-07, 7-2-2007)
THIS ESTABLISHMENT IS REGULATED BY THE VILLAGE OF CHEBANSE. PERFORMERS AND
ENTERTAINERS ARE:
1. NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN ANY TYPE OF PROHIBITED SEXUAL CONDUCT.
2. NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT ANY TIPS DIRECTLY OR PERSONALLY FROM PATRONS. ANY
SUCH TIPS MUST BE PLACED INTO THE RECEPTACLE PROVIDED BY MANAGEMENT.
3. NOT PERMITTED TO APPEAR NUDE OR IN ANY STATE OF UNDRESS PROHIBITED AND AS
DEFINED BY THE VILLAGE.
(Ord. 07-07, 7-2-2007; amd. 2019 Code)
3-7-8: AGE LIMITATION:
No licensee shall permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) upon the
premises. (Ord. 07-07, 7-2-2007; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-2: Inspection And Investigation Of Possible Nuisance Conditions
4-1-3: Abatement Provisions
4-1-4: Penalties
4-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Each of the following acts, activities or conduct is hereby declared to be a
nuisance within the limits of the Village:
   A.   Common Law Nuisances: To commit any offense which is a nuisance
according to the common law of the land or made such by the Statutes of the
State of Illinois.
   B.   Offensive Odors: To conduct any business or use any premises as to
create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and render it unwholesome
or disagreeable in the neighborhood.
   C.   Offensive Premises:
      1.   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or vegetable matter,
slops, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable drippings or offal or noisome
substance of any kind to be collected or deposited or to remain in any place in
the Village to the prejudice of others.
      2.   For any person to permit any slops, swill, garbage, stable
drippings, offal, filth, refuse, or animal or vegetable matter, which is liable
to become putrid or offensive or injurious to health, to remain on any premises
or any place for a longer period than twelve (12) hours at a time.
      3.   To keep or suffer to be kept in a foul, offensive, nauseous or
filthy condition, any chicken coop, cow house, stable, cellar, vault, drain,
privy, sewer or sink upon any premises, railroad car, building, yard or
grounds.
   D.   Offensive Animal Houses And Enclosures: To own, use or keep any yard,
pen, place, railroad car or premises in or upon which cattle or other animals
shall be confined or kept, or keep any fowl, cattle or animals, so as to be
offensive to those residing in the vicinity or an annoyance to others.
   E.   Privies: To erect or maintain any privy within the Village.
   F.   Offensive Businesses:
      1.   To locate and carry on any packing house, rendery, tallow chandlery,
glue or bone factory, soap factory or tannery within the limits of the Village
and within the distance of one mile outside the Village limits.
      2.   To erect, continue or use any building or other place for the
exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by occasion of noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals or of the public.
      3.   To slaughter or kill any cattle, hogs or sheep, or keep, maintain or
use in the Village any house or place in which the business of slaughtering any
of said animals may be carried on.
   G.   Offensive, Dangerous Parking Of Certain Vehicles: To park or cause to
be parked any semitrailer or tractor on any premises, street or alley in the
Village if such parking is offensive or dangerous to the health or safety of
individuals or of the public.
   H.   Depositing Offensive Substances:
      1.   To deposit any nightsoil, dead animal or other filthy, offensive or
noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway, park or other place.
      2.   To throw, drop or deposit any paper cup, carton, plate or other
container upon a sidewalk, crosswalk, roadway or any part of any public street
or public building which is offensive or injurious to the public.
   I.   Water Pollution:
      1.   To throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, any offal
or other offensive matter or the carcass of any animal in any watercourse,
pond, spring, creek or well in or which flows through the Village.
      2.   To corrupt or render unwholesome or injure the water of any drinking
hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake to the injury and prejudice of others.
      3.   To obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in
the Village.
   J.   Stagnant Water:
      1.   To obstruct any watercourse, ravine or gutter so as to cause water
to stagnate therein or to permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any
premises to the prejudice of others.
      2.   To allow water to accumulate and remain in a pond or ponds, either
wholly or partly within the limits of any private property, for a period of
more than ten (10) consecutive days. For the purpose of this subsection J2, the
term "pond" shall be considered to mean any exposed surface of water not less
than one hundred (100) square feet in area which has accumulated either by
natural or artificial means in any depression or connected series of
depressions of excavations, whether existing naturally or created artificially.
      3.   To permit any stagnant pool of water to remain or exist on any
property where the condition is a threat to public health.
   K.   Air Pollution: To allow or permit any dense smoke, fly ash or soot to
come or be emitted from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency
within the limits of the Village. Such nuisance may be summarily abated by whom
the Village President and Board of Trustees may authorize for such purposes.
Such abatement may be in addition to the fine provided for a violation of this
section.
   L.   Weeds And Grass As Fire Hazards: Suffering grass, leaves, underbrush or
other combustible matter to be collected or deposited or to remain on premises
in such quantities and in such condition as to materially increase the danger
to property of others from fires.
   M.   Open Burning: To cause or allow on any premises, street or alley, the
burning of paper, leaves or other matter unless supervised by the person so
doing until the fire is completely extinguished.
   N.   Expectorating In Public: To spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk,
street or other public place or floor or walk or any public vehicle or hall or
any public building.
   O.   Noisy Conditions:
      1.   To conduct any building operations or to operate any steam shovels,
pneumatic hammers, steam or electric hoists or other apparatus, the use of
which is attended with loud or unusual noise, during the hours set out in
section
9-2-4 of this Code.
      2.   To use any building, or permit the use of the same, or rent the same
to be used for any business or employment or for any purpose of pleasure or
recreation if such use shall, from its noise or boisterous nature, disturb or
destroy the peace of the neighborhood in which such building or premises is
situated or be dangerous or detrimental to health.
   P.   Unsightly Premises:
      1.   To permit or maintain an unsightly yard or premises where there is
an accumulation or deposit of any vehicle, equipment, material of any nature,
waste or earth.
      2.   To maintain an unsightly yard or area where junk, wrecked or
disabled automobiles, trucks or equipment, or other such matter, is allowed to
accumulate.
   Q.   Dangerous Premises: To permit any building, structure or place to
remain in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way.
   R.   Obstructing Public Ways: To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys and commons.
   S.   Any fence found to be in violation of Title 9, Chapter 5 by the
Director of Building and Zoning and/or a majority vote of the Village Board.
(1990 Code §§ 13.403, 13.404, 13.406, 16.101; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 23-08, 11-
20-2023)
4-1-2: INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION OF POSSIBLE NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
When an existence of a public nuisance is brought to the attention of the
Village, the Village building inspector shall cause an inspection and
investigation to be made and to determine whether removal is necessary. (2019
Code)
4-1-3: ABATEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notice To Abate: The Village building inspector shall, after inspection
and investigating under the provisions of section
4-1-2 of this chapter, cause a notice in writing to be served upon the person,
corporation or entity found to be responsible for the existence of the
nuisance. The notice shall require the person, entity, or corporation
responsible to abate the nuisance within ten (10) days from the receipt of the
notice. If personal service of the notice cannot be made, then such notice
shall be left at the residence or usual place of business of the person found
to be responsible. The notice shall indicate the date of the inspection and
investigation, and the hours and location where the inspection was made. The
notice shall set forth what the nuisance consists of and indicate the abatement
or remedy required.
   B.   Failure To Abate; Abatement By Village; Costs: After the expiration of
ten (10) days from the time the notice is served, if the nuisance is not abated
or other remedy made as required, it may be done under the direction of the
Village building inspector, and all costs of so doing to remedy the abatement
shall be collected from the person, corporation or entity who is responsible
for the nuisance with a penalty of ten percent (10%) of such costs.
   C.   Emergency Abatement: If a nuisance constitutes an emergency, the time
for abatement may be reduced by the Village in the notices which specify that
the emergency exists.
   D.   Responsibility Of Owner, Agent Or Occupant: When any nuisance, or
anything likely to become a nuisance, may be found upon any premises, and the
person, corporation or entity causing such nuisance is unknown or cannot be
found, the owner, agent or occupant of the premises shall be notified by the
Village to abate the same. If such owner, agent or occupant whose duty it is
hereby made to abate such nuisance shall not promptly comply with such notice,
he shall be subject to the penalty provided in this chapter.
   E.   Special Lien Authorization: The costs and expenses incurred by the
Village to abate any public nuisance may be made a lien on the property on
which any such public nuisance is located pursuant to, and to the fullest
extent provided by, Illinois law. (2019 Code)
4-1-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines: Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) in the
case of a first offense and shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every
subsequent offense. Each and every day that such nuisance shall remain in
existence shall constitute a separate offense. (1990 Code § 16.102; amd. 2019
Code)
   B.   Injunction: In the event any violation is of a continuing nature, the
Village building inspector is hereby authorized to seek an injunction in the
Circuit Court to enjoin any such nuisance, and the building inspector shall
bring said action in the name of the Village. (1990 Code § 16.103)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD DEALERS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Licensing Requirements
4-2-3: Unwholesome, Adulterated Food
4-2-4: Sanitary Conditions
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
FOOD: Includes beverages.
FOOD DEALER: Means and includes every person, firm or corporation engaged in
conducting or operating any business for the storage, handling, preparation or
sale of food or drink intended for human consumption. (1990 Code §§ 13.301,
13.310)
4-2-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any food dealer to engage in
or do business in the Village without having first secured a license therefor.
   B.   Application For License; Fee: All applications for a license shall be
made in compliance with the general provisions of this Code relating thereto
and shall state the kind of food intended to be sold or handled. The annual fee
for such license shall be ten dollars ($10.00). (1990 Code § 13.302)
   C.   Investigation Of Applicant: All applications for a license to conduct a
business connected with the storage, handling, sale or preparation of food or
drink intended for human consumption shall be referred to the appropriate
Village official, who shall make or cause to be made an investigation of the
premises to be used and report his findings thereon, recommending or advising
against the issuance of the license. (1990 Code § 13.307; amd. 2019 Code)
   D.   Revocation Of License: Any food dealer's license may be revoked by the
Village President for repeated violations of the provisions of this chapter or
for any violation of any other ordinance provision relating to the conduct of
the business, the condition of the premises, the article sold or the license
required. (1990 Code § 13.303)
4-2-3: UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED FOOD:
   A.   Unwholesome Food:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall offer for sale, or keep for the
purpose of selling or offering for sale, any food of any kind intended for
human consumption which is spoiled or tainted or is unwholesome and unfit for
human consumption for any reason. (1990 Code §§ 13.304, 13.401)
      2.   All tainted or unwholesome food intended for human consumption may
be condemned by the appropriate Village official and shall thereupon be seized
and destroyed by said official. (1990 Code § 13.304; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Adulterated Food: It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or keep
for such purpose any food or drink intended for human consumption which has
been adulterated by any material harmful in any way or which does not comply
with this Code and/or State Statutes governing the same. (1990 Code § 13.305;
amd. 2019 Code)
4-2-4: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises:
      1.   Premises used for the sale or storage of food intended for human
consumption must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to permit any accumulation of refuse or waste
of any kind to remain thereon for more than twenty four (24) hours, and it
shall be unlawful to permit any decaying animal or plant material to remain on
such premises. (1990 Code §§ 13.306, 13.402)
      3.   Premises used for the storage, preparation or sale of food intended
for human consumption shall be kept free from flies, vermin and rodents. (1990
Code § 13.308)
   B.   Employees:
      1.   All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food
intended for sale for human consumption shall keep themselves clean, both as to
person and clothing. (1990 Code § 13.309)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a
carrier of any infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the
care or preparation of any food or drink; and it shall be unlawful to permit
any such person to be employed in or about any premises where food or drink is
stored, prepared or sold, or to deliver any such food or drink. (1990 Code §§
13.309, 13.402)
   C.   Utensils: Utensils for personal use in all places serving food or drink
to the public shall be thoroughly cleaned and sterilized after each such usage.
(1990 Code § 13.409)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 13.311; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Collection Fees
4-3-2: Receptacle Requirements
4-3-3: Prohibited Deposits; Disposal Requirements
4-3-4: Additional Prohibitions
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: COLLECTION FEES:
The monthly rates of the Village residents for garbage and recycling collection
fees shall be seventeen dollars ($17.00) per unit per month, effective May 1,
2014; seventeen dollars sixty eight cents ($17.68) per unit per month,
effective May 1, 2015; eighteen dollars thirty eight cents ($18.38) per unit
per month, effective May 1, 2016; nineteen dollars eleven cents ($19.11) per
unit per month, effective May 1, 2017; and nineteen dollars eighty seven cents
($19.87) per unit per month, effective May 1, 2018, until further amended.
(Ord. 14-02, 4-7-2014)
4-3-2: RECEPTACLE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be the duty of every owner or agent or occupant of any house,
building, flat or apartment, or tenement in the Village whose people reside,
board, or lodge, or where animal or vegetable matter is prepared or served, and
at all times to maintain in good order, the covered receptacle provided by
Kankakee/A&J Disposal, to make the contents inaccessible to dogs and other
animals and to prevent the breeding of flies and shall place and carry said
receptacles on the garbage collection day to the street or alley line
designated either by the Village Board of Trustees or by the garbage collector,
unless said person shall regularly dispose of his garbage or refuse outside the
corporate limits of the Village. All users affected by this section shall bring
out their garbage receptacle no earlier than twenty four (24) hours prior to
scheduled pick up and shall recover their garbage receptacles and have same
back on their property within twenty four (24) hours after pick up. (Ord. 15-
02, 4-20-2015)
4-3-3: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS; DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No garbage or any refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street,
alley or public way, except for purposes of removal by a disposal company or
scavenger. (1990 Code §§ 13.202, 13.203; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit
anywhere in the Village any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal or
carcasses of dead animals where such condition poses a threat to the public
health. Such refuse must be properly disposed of. Any uncovered pile of refuse
is hereby declared to be a threat to the public health. (1990 Code § 13.405;
amd. 2019 Code)
4-3-4: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such
a way as to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw away any refuse of any
kind in any alley, street or other public way in the Village. (1990 Code §
19.112)
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
petty offense, and for the first offense shall be fined not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00), and for a second or any subsequent offense(s) shall
be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-
2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating any provision
of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-4-1: Prohibited Burning; Exceptions
4-4-2: Permitted Burning
4-4-3: Restrictions Under Certain Weather Conditions
4-4-4: Days And Hours Of Burning Vegetation
4-4-5: Special Recreational Fires
4-4-6: Fires Near Structures
4-4-7: Grass And Field Fires
4-4-8: Penalties
4-4-1: PROHIBITED BURNING; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to this chapter, it shall be unlawful to burn any garbage at
any time in the Village except as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 03-06, 6-2-
2003; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   No person, firm or corporation shall burn or ignite garbage at any time
or permit to remain burning any combustible rubbish, paper, cardboard or other
substance. (Ord. 00-02, 9-18-2000, eff. 10-1-2000)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own a trash receptacle or barrel
for purposes of burning garbage, organic refuse and leaves on the property
thereof. If such receptacle(s) is not removed within thirty (30) days after the
effective date hereof, such receptacle shall be confiscated.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to burn leaves, grass or brush on Village property
and public roadways at any time. (Ord. 03-06, 6-2-2003)
4-4-2: PERMITTED BURNING:
   A.   Residential campfires.
   B.   Burning leaves pursuant to section
4-4-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Approved recreational wood burners.
   D.   Recreation campfires permitted on property only under the following
conditions:
      1.   The fire shall be contained in a metal container not exceeding
twenty (20) square feet in plane surface area and not elevated more than ten
inches (10") above the grade level, or on cleared earth in a pit enclosed on
the sides by masonry or rock materials and not exceeding twenty (20) square
feet in area.
      2.   All trees, fences, decks and other structures shall be at least ten
feet (10') from the fire enclosure or pit.
      3.   Any fuel used shall be confined to logs or branches that are
untreated or commercially available charcoal briquettes. No other fuels are
permissible except a starter fuel designed for that purpose.
      4.   A responsible adult of at least eighteen (18) years of age shall be
in attendance at all times that the fire is burning. When adult supervision
ceases, the fire shall be extinguished with water and the coals spread out in
the enclosure.
      5.   Campfires shall be extinguished if, in the opinion of a responding
Fire Department employee, there is danger that smoke or fire will inflict
injury upon someone or will cause damage to property.
      6.   The owner of the property upon which the fire is burning shall have
consented to such fire.
   E.   Outdoor cooking fires. Charcoal or small wood fires for cooking
purposes are permitted in containers designed for cooking over such fires.
These containers shall be placed so that they do not cause fire or smoke damage
to property or injury to any person. (Ord. 03-06, 6-2-2003)
4-4-3: RESTRICTIONS UNDER CERTAIN WEATHER CONDITIONS:
No person, firm or corporation shall burn or ignite any material otherwise
lawful when the wind or other weather conditions make such burning unsafe or
dangerous to any person or property including that of the person burning or
causing the burning the same. (Ord. 00-02, 9-18-2000, eff. 10-1-2000)
4-4-4: DAYS AND HOURS OF BURNING VEGETATION:
No person, firm or corporation shall burn or ignite leaves or tree matter
except during the hours between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. on the first and third Fridays and Saturdays of each month, except
during the month of November, at which time, burning of leaves or tree matter
is allowed each day except for Sundays and Thanksgiving Day; provided, that
such fire shall be supervised at all times by the person, firm or corporation
burning or causing the burning of any leaves or tree matter and that any leaf
fire shall be located at a sufficient distance from any other property so as to
prevent endangering any such other property, and that no such burning shall
take place on any public street or sidewalk or on any Village property. (Ord.
13-10, 12-2-2013, eff. 12-2-2013)
4-4-5: SPECIAL RECREATIONAL FIRES:
With the written permission of the Fire Chief and in accordance with the
conditions prescribed by the Fire Chief, special recreational fires shall be
permitted at special events such as high school or college pep rallies. The
Fire Chief shall have sole discretion to issue a letter of permission for such
fires based upon the potential for danger to persons or property. He or she may
prescribe such mandatory conditions as are necessary or desirable to ensure the
safety of persons and property. (Ord. 03-06, 6-2-2003)
4-4-6: FIRES NEAR STRUCTURES:
It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any building or
other structure as to endanger such building or structure, or on any street or
sidewalk pavement. (1990 Code § 19.113)
4-4-7: GRASS AND FIELD FIRES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to start, or cause to be started,
or knowingly permit to be started or set on any premises within the Village,
any fire for the purpose of burning grass, weeds, leaves or other combustible
material on the surface of the ground without first having obtained a permit
therefor from the Village Clerk, and such person shall notify the Fire
Protection District stating the location where such fire is to be set, the
approximate size of the area to be burned and the number of persons who will be
in charge of said proposed fire to guard against its getting out of control.
Such person will be responsible for and assume all costs and damages that may
result from the setting of such fire. (1990 Code § 19.129; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Nothing in this section shall interfere with the burning of leaves or
other rubbish by the owner or occupant of the premises in which same are burned
if such leaves or rubbish has been raked and piled and the fire is being
attended in compliance with the provisions of any other ordinance or provision.
(1990 Code § 19.129)
4-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, upon a finding of
guilty, is guilty of the commission of a petty offense, and for the first
offense shall be fined not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and for a
second or any subsequent offense(s) shall be fined not to exceed seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 03-06, 6-2-2003; amd. Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff.
7-7-2003; 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Nuisance Weeds
4-5-2: Height Limit
4-5-3: Notice To Abate
4-5-4: Abatement By Village; Costs
4-5-5: Lien Provisions
4-5-6: Penalty
4-5-1: NUISANCE WEEDS:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds
of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the Village are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in such place. (1990 Code § 18.201)
4-5-2: HEIGHT LIMIT:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants other than
trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the Village. Any such plants exceeding
such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1990 Code § 18.202)
4-5-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
It shall be the duty of the Village President to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any such premises on which weeds or plants
are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter, and to
demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days. In the event that
the owner is a nonresident or cannot be found, notice by mailing to the person
who last paid the taxes on such premises, postage fully prepaid, shall be
sufficient. (1990 Code § 18.203; amd. 2019 Code)
4-5-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days after
such notice, the Village President shall give an order to the maintenance
person who may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the
expenses thereof. Such expenses shall be charged to and paid by the owner or
occupant. (1990 Code § 18.204; amd. 2019 Code)
4-5-5: LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises as provided
by statute. Whenever a bill for weed cutting remains unpaid sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the Recorder of
Deeds of Kankakee or Iroquois County a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain a legal description of the premises served and the amount of the
unpaid bill, the date or dates when the weed cutting was incurred, and a notice
that the Village claims a lien for this amount.
   B.   Notice of such lien claim shall be by certified mail sent by the
Village Clerk to the owner of the premises, if the address is known to the
Clerk, whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days after
it has been rendered. (1990 Code § 18.205; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   The failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail
such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for the unpaid weed cutting bill as
outlined herein.
   D.   Property subject to a lien for such unpaid bill shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as in the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the Village. (1990
Code § 18.205)
4-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such nuisance continues unabated after
ten (10) days from receipt of such notice. (1990 Code § 18.206; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 6
USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Use Prohibited; Exceptions
4-6-3: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any legal entity, or their legal
representative, agents or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 07-10, 9-17-2007)
4-6-2: USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date hereof,
the use or attempt to use, as a potable water supply, groundwater from the
properties identified on the plat map on file in the Village that are within
the corporate limits of the Village as a potable water supply, by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited.
This prohibition expressly includes the Village. (Ord. 07-10, 9-17-2007)
4-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. (Ord. 07-10,
9-17-2007; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Contract With Kankakee County Sheriff's Department
5-1-1: CONTRACT WITH KANKAKEE COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT:
The Village contracts with the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department for law
enforcement within the Village. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Noisy Animals
5-2-2: Treatment Of Animals
5-2-3: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
5-2-4: Diseased Animals
5-2-5: Livestock And Poultry Prohibited
5-2-6: Animal Housing
5-2-7: Penalty
5-2-1: NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by
loud noises at any time which can be detected by normal hearing (human auditory
perception) within eight hundred feet (800') of the animal or the premises
where the animal is housed. (1990 Code § 15.103; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2-2: TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the Village in any way. Any person
who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this section. (1990 Code § 15.101)
5-2-3: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal
of any kind to run at large within the Village. Exhibitions or parades of
animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only
upon securing a permit from the Village Clerk. (1990 Code § 15.102; amd. 2019
Code)
   B.   The members of the Village Board of Trustees or the Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department is authorized to destroy any dangerous animal of any kind
when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property. (1990 Code §
15.105; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2-4: DISEASED ANIMALS:
No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be
in any public place, nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed from
the premises of the owner thereof, except under the supervision of the
contracted animal control. (1990 Code § 15.106; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2-5: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to keep any livestock or poultry in the Village. (1990
Code § 15.107)
5-2-6: ANIMAL HOUSING:
No person shall cause or allow any place where any animal is or may be kept to
become unclean or unwholesome. (1990 Code § 15.107; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 15.108; amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOMESTIC ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Running At Large Prohibited
5-2A-3: Nuisance Domestic Animals
5-2A-4: Dangerous, Vicious Domestic Animals
5-2A-5: Domestic Animal Bites
5-2A-6: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-2A-7: Violation; Penalties
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Any domestic animal shall be deemed to be at large when he is off the
property of his owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS: Both dogs and cats.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a domestic animal, or who keeps
or harbors a domestic animal, or who has a domestic animal in his care or who
acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a domestic animal to remain on
or about any premises occupied by him.
RESTRAINT: A domestic animal is under restraint within the meaning of this
article if he is controlled by a leash; at heel beside a responsible person,
obedient to that person's commands; within a vehicle being driven or parked on
the streets; or within the property limits of his owner or keeper. (Ord. 03-11,
9-15-2003, eff. 9-15-2003)
5-2A-2: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No owner or keeper of any domestic animal shall permit such domestic animal to
go at large and unrestrained upon the streets or other public ways of the
Village. Such action is declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the public
health and safety. (Ord. 03-11, 9-15-2003, eff. 9-15-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2A-3: NUISANCE DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
Any domestic animal which may in any manner continually disturb any persons or
shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal, plant, shrub or other
property not on the premises of its owner or keeper, or shall bite any person
is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such domestic animal shall be taken up
and impounded and redeemed or disposed of as provided in section
5-2A-6 of this article. (Ord. 03-11, 9-15-2003, eff. 9-15-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2A-4: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
Any dangerous, fierce or vicious domestic animal which cannot be safely taken
up and impounded may be destroyed by any police officer or contracted animal
control. (Ord. 03-11, 9-15-2003, eff. 9-15-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2A-5: DOMESTIC ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Any domestic animal which shall bite any person or otherwise injure
such person shall be kept under the observation of a licensed veterinarian for
a period of two (2) weeks, and said veterinarian shall, at the end of said two-
week period, make a written report to the Kankakee County Police Patrol
Supervisor, and should such domestic animal show evidence of rabies, then it
shall be destroyed in a humane manner. In the event the domestic animal is
determined free from rabies by said veterinarian, said domestic animal shall be
released to the owner or keeper of the domestic animal who shall claim the same
within the two-week period by making payment of all costs involved while the
domestic animal is under observation. If the owner or keeper does not claim the
domestic animal at this time, in that event, any person may redeem it by making
a like payment. If said domestic animal is not claimed as set forth herein,
then said domestic animal may be destroyed in a humane manner.
   B.   It shall be the duty of any owner or keeper of a domestic animal which
shall bite any person or otherwise injure any person to promptly notify the
Village of said fact. Any domestic animal which shall bite any person or
otherwise injure any person on a second occasion shall be declared a nuisance,
shall be taken up and impounded and shall be destroyed in a humane manner.
(Ord. 03-11, 9-15-2003, eff. 9-15-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-2A-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority To Impound; Records Kept: It shall be the duty of the animal
control person or other person designated by the Village for such purpose to
apprehend any domestic animal violating any provision of this article and to
impound such domestic animal within the nearest animal hospital or shelter, or
other suitable place. Said animal control person or other person designated by
the Village for such purpose shall, upon impoundment, make a complete registry
of said impoundment, entering the breed, color, and sex of such domestic animal
and the name and address of the owner.
   B.   Notice To Owner; Redemption: Not later than two (2) days after the
impounding of any domestic animal, the owner shall be notified by the
impounding agency, or if the owner of the domestic animal is unknown, written
notice shall be posted for three (3) days at three (3) or more conspicuous
places in the Village describing the domestic animal and the place and time of
taking by the impounding agency. The owner of any domestic animal so impounded
may reclaim such domestic animal upon payment of the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) to the impounding authority, or the reasonable costs and charges
incurred by the Village for impounding and maintenance of said domestic animal.
The impounding authority shall collect said one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
forward any remaining monies promptly to the Village Clerk. If the owner or
keeper does not claim the domestic animal within the time limit as set forth
herein, in that event, any person may redeem said domestic animal by making a
like payment. The owner shall be notified by the impounding agency.
   C.   Unclaimed Animals: Any impounded domestic animal which shall not be
redeemed within three (3) days shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by the person or agency designated by the Village.
   D.   Upon a violation of this Article, the Village Board may, in addition to
the penalties provided in Section
5-2A-7, order the person keeping, sheltering or harboring an offending animal
to permanently remove the animal from the Village no later than forty eight
(48) hours after the Board renders such a decision. Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove the animal, which notice shall be given in
writing to the person keeping, sheltering or harboring the animal. Proof of
permanent removal shall include, but not be limited to, documents showing
release and transfer of the animal to a person, organization or animal control
facility outside the Village, verification of destruction of the animal, or
other materials deemed satisfactory by the Board. Failure to remove the animal
in compliance with this subparagraph shall constitute a nuisance as described
in Section
5-2A-3, shall constitute a per diem violation of this Article subject to the
penalties provided in Section
5-2A-7, and shall be subject to the provisions of Title 4, Chapter 1 regarding
abatement of nuisances. Each day that the animal remains within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the Village shall be deemed a separate offense as
described in Section
5-2A-7. (Ord. 03-11, 9-15-2003, eff. 9-15-2003; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 20-07, 7-
20-2020)
5-2A-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any owner or keeper of a domestic animal violating any provision of this
article shall be subject to the following penalties:
   First offense: $50 fine;
   Second offense: $150 fine;
   Third offense: $250 fine;
   Fourth offense: $500 fine;
   Fifth or subsequent offense: $750. (Ord. 03-11, 9-15-2003, eff. 9-15-2003;
amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 20-07, 7-20-2020)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Certain Violations A Nuisance
5-3-2: Penalties
5-3-1: CERTAIN VIOLATIONS A NUISANCE:
   A.   In the absence of language indicating a contrary intent, when the
violation of any ordinance of the Village results in injury or damage to
persons or property on privately owned land or on publicly owned places, the
act or omission constituting the ordinance violation shall be deemed to be a
nuisance.
   B.   In addition to all other penalties and remedies provided by law, any
person damaged by a nuisance caused by an ordinance violation may, in an
appropriate court action, obtain an award for damages, a temporary restraining
order, a preliminary injunction or a permanent injunction. The Village may also
obtain a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, permanent
injunction and, if the Village receives actual financial damages, an award for
such damages. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
5-3-2: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter upon finding of guilty,
has committed a petty offense, and for the first offense shall be fined not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and for a second or any subsequent
offense(s) shall be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Damaging Property; Posting Bills
5-3A-2: Malicious Or Wilful Injury To Village Property
5-3A-3: Dangerous Items On Public Ways
5-3A-4: Advertisements
5-3A-5: Trespassing
5-3A-6: Scaffolds
5-3A-7: Articles On Ledges
5-3A-8: Obstructing Stairways Or Exits
5-3A-1: DAMAGING PROPERTY; POSTING BILLS:
No person shall mar, injure, destroy or deface in the Village, or aid in
injuring, destroying, or defacing, any public or private property, or cause to
be posted or stuck any handbill or placard upon any public or private building
or upon any fence or other property within the Village without permission from
the owner or occupant first obtained; or mar, injure, destroy or deface, or
cause to be marred, destroyed, injured or defaced, any bridge, fence, tree,
street sign, awning, lamppost, electric light post, or apparatus or any other
property not belonging to the person so offending, whether public or private.
(Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
5-3A-2: MALICIOUS OR WILFUL INJURY TO VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person maliciously or wilfully to destroy,
mutilate, injure or deface any of the public buildings, grounds, signs,
sidewalks, electric lights, electric light poles or other property of the
Village. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of any Village
department, or any other person, to destroy, injure, remove or move any bench,
table or monument in any street or public place in the Village without first
procuring a permit therefor from the Village President. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003,
eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3A-3: DANGEROUS ITEMS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, tacks, nails or other
similar articles on any street, alley or sidewalk or other public place in the
Village. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
5-3A-4: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Advertising Unlawful Business; Damage To Advertisements: It shall be
unlawful to advertise any unlawful business in the Village, and it shall be
unlawful to deface any lawful advertisement or notice. (1990 Code § 19.116;
amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Placing Advertisements On Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation, whether a licensed billposter or not, to
distribute handbills, circulars, dodgers, pamphlets, cards, pictures or any
advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, by placing the same in or upon any
motor vehicle standing or parked in the public streets of the Village. (1990
Code § 19.121)
5-3A-5: TRESPASSING:
No person shall enter or come upon the premises of another person in violation
of an adequately visible sign forbidding any such person from entering or
coming upon said premises. (1990 Code § 19.130)
5-3A-6: SCAFFOLDS:
Any scaffold or ladder placed in such a way that it overhangs or can fall onto
any public street, alley or other public place in the Village shall be firmly
constructed and safeguarded in such a manner as to diminish risk to the public
due to the scaffold or ladder falling, and it shall be unlawful to place or
leave any tools or articles on any such place in such a manner that the same
can fall onto any such street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place. (1990
Code § 19.124; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3A-7: ARTICLES ON LEDGES:
It shall be unlawful to place any moveable article on any window ledge or other
ledge abutting on a public street, alley or other place at a height above four
feet (4') from the ground in such a manner that the same can fall or is in
danger of falling onto any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place. (1990
Code § 19.125; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3A-8: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, place
of worship, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or rental
building in such a manner that it interferes with the free use of such
stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (1990 Code § 19.127; amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES INVOLVING PEACE, HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-3B-2: Assault Or Battery
5-3B-3: Certain Disturbances
5-3B-4: Throwing Missiles
5-3B-5: Assemblies
5-3B-6: Hunting
5-3B-7: Weapons Control
5-3B-8: Unwholesome Businesses
5-3B-9: Noise
5-3B-10: Sleeping In Public Places
5-3B-11: Hitchhiking; Soliciting
5-3B-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct
or of any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making
of any unnecessary loud noise or shouting where such an act constitutes a
breach of the peace shall be considered disorderly conduct. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-
2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent,
tumultuous, offensive or disorderly conduct by threatening, traducing,
quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting; or by using obscene, offensive,
profane or unseemly language likely to cause annoyance, disturbance or vexation
of a person of ordinary sensibilities, or likely to provoke another to fight.
(Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
5-3B-2: ASSAULT OR BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any assault or battery. (Ord. 03-
07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3B-3: CERTAIN DISTURBANCES:
Whoever shall create, commit, permit or continue a disturbance of any kind or
description in, upon or about any private property, or in any public place
within the Village, which may affect the health or safety of persons residing
or doing business in the vicinity thereof, shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(1990 Code § 19.132; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3B-4: THROWING MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street, alley
or other public place. (1990 Code § 19.115; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3B-5: ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Unlawful Assemblies: It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a
member of any disorderly crowd or any crowd gathered for any unlawful purpose.
(1990 Code § 19.117)
   B.   Disturbing Assemblies: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb
any lawful assemblage or gathering in the Village. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff.
7-7-2003)
5-3B-6: HUNTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing any animal in the
Village other than as prescribed by law. (1990 Code § 19.109)
5-3B-7: WEAPONS CONTROL:
   A.   Concealed Weapons: It shall be unlawful to carry any concealed weapons
in the Village in violation of Illinois Statutes.
   B.   Discharge Of Weapons: It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm,
airgun, or BB gun, or any toy gun projecting lead, or any missiles except in a
regularly established and licensed shooting range; provided, that this
subsection shall not be construed to prohibit any citizen from discharging a
firearm when lawfully defending person(s). (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-
2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3B-8: UNWHOLESOME BUSINESSES:
It shall be unlawful to establish or conduct any packing plant, slaughterhouse,
rendery, tallow chandlery, soap factory, glue factory, tannery or any business,
the operation of which constitutes a risk to public health and safety, within
the Village. (1990 Code § 19.118; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3B-9: NOISE:
   A.   No person shall create, maintain, assist, or participate in the
creation or maintenance of a loud or raucous noise likely to disturb the public
peace.
   B.   No driver of any motor vehicle within the Village shall operate or
permit the operation of any sound amplification system which can be heard
outside the vehicle from seventy five (75) or more feet when the vehicle is
being operated on a street, highway or alley, unless such sound system is being
operated to request assistance or to warn of a hazardous situation. This
subsection does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles. (2019 Code)
5-3B-10: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Prohibited Places Enumerated: The following regulations shall apply to
sleeping in places open to the public:
      1.   Streets And Sidewalks:
         a.   No person shall sleep on any public street right-of-way.
         b.   No person shall sleep on any alley or other public way.
         c.   No person shall sleep on any sidewalk.
      2.   Village Buildings: No person shall sleep in any building owned or
operated by the Village, except in those buildings and locations designated for
sleeping during weather emergencies or when necessary to preserve public health
and safety.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   No person shall be charged with violation of this section if such
person is unable, due to illness, to comply.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall affect any person's right or privilege
of camping at any public or private campground.
   C.   Enforcement:
      1.   No person shall be arrested for a violation of this section, or
charged with a violation of this section, unless such person continues to sleep
or to attempt to sleep in a location covered by this section after a Village
official or the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department has informed him that such
continued conduct is in violation of a Village ordinance.
      2.   Any person warned under this section, or charged or arrested under
this section, by any Village official or the Kankakee County Sheriff's
Department, shall be notified by such official or department of at least one
public or private shelter that the official or department believes in good
faith to be available to such person at low cost or at no cost, unless no such
place is available. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-3B-11: HITCHHIKING; SOLICITING:
   A.   1. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to stand or loiter
upon any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or public highway or grounds within
the limits of the Village for the purpose of "thumbing", requesting, asking, or
soliciting a ride from the operator of any motor vehicle.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prevent
a person upon a public highway from soliciting, or a driver of a vehicle from
giving a ride where an emergency actually exists, nor to prevent a person from
signaling or requesting transportation from a passenger carrier for the purpose
of becoming a passenger thereon for hire.
   B.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003,
eff. 7-7-2003)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Gambling And Related Offenses
5-3C-2: Public Indecency
5-3C-3: Obscenity
5-3C-4: Public Intoxication
5-3C-5: Alcoholic Beverages On Public Ways And Parking Lots
5-3C-1: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to gamble or attend any gambling resort or to
make any bet, lottery, or gambling hazard or to buy or sell any changes or
tickets in any gambling game, arrangement or device, unless authorized by State
law. (1990 Code § 19.101)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to possess any gambling device or paraphernalia
with the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose, and any such device or
paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by the Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department. (1990 Code § 19.101; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   It shall be unlawful to maintain or patronize any establishment
maintained for a gambling house or resort.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling house or gambling
resort in any street, alley or public place in the Village. (1990 Code §
19.101)
   B.   Exemptions From Provisions: The prohibitions under subsection A of this
section shall not apply to any person or entity which has a license or permit
from the Village pursuant to the video gaming terminal application, sticker,
and fee and, in addition, who also shall have been issued a license or permit
pursuant to the Illinois Video Gaming Act, published as of May 2012, so long as
such gambling activity is conducted in complete compliance with any and all
requirements of said Act and in complete compliance with any and all rules,
regulations, opinions, and administrative decisions of the Illinois Department
of Revenue and/or the Illinois Gaming Board. (Ord. 12-10, 8-6-2012)
5-3C-2: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Sexual Conduct:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this subsection, the following terms shall
have the following meanings given them:
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Any of the following depicted sexual conduct:
         a.   Any act of sexual intercourse, actual or simulated, including
genital-genital, anal- genital or oral-genital intercourse, whether between
human beings or between a human being and an animal.
         b.   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or upon
a person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restricted on the
part of one so clothed.
         c.   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals including any
explicit, closeup representation of a human genital organ.
         d.   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed
or unclothed pubic areas or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts
of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or
between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
         e.   An act of sexual assault where physical violence or drugs are
employed to overcome the will of or achieve the consent of a person to an act
of sexual conduct and the effects or results of the violence or drugs are
shown. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   Prohibited Acts: No person shall recklessly do any of the following
under circumstances in which his or her conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others, not members of his or her household:
         a.   Expose his or her private parts or engage in masturbation.
         b.   Engage in sexual conduct.
         c.   Engage in conduct which to an ordinary observer would appear to
be sexual conduct or masturbation.
      3.   Violations; Penalties: Whoever violates subsection A2 of this
section is guilty of public indecency. If the offender previously has not been
convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of subsection A2 of this section,
that is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of subsection A2 of this
section, that is a misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two (2) violations of subsection A2
of this section, that is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three (3) or more
violations of subsection A2 of this section, that is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
   B.   Public Bathing: It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any
public place or any place open to the public view unless such person is
adequately garbed in a bathing suit. (1990 Code § 19.119)
5-3C-3: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      1.   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide, any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
      2.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
      3.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
or
      4.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain; or
      5.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the Penal Laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      6.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   B.   Obscene Defined: Any material or performance is obscene if:
      1.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and
      2.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate
sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the
genitals; and
      3.   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence:
      1.   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults; except,
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      2.   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      3.   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence shall
be admissible to show:
         a.   The character of the audience for which the material was designed
or to which it was directed.
         b.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
on the behavior of such people.
         c.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof.
         d.   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
State.
         e.   It appeals to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in
advertising or other promotion of the material.
         f.   The purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
(2019 Code)
5-3C-4: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition in or on
any street, alley or other public place in the Village in that he might be a
danger to himself or others. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019
Code)
5-3C-5: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PARKING LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, consume, transport, carry or
possess any alcoholic liquor, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken, on any public street, sidewalk, parkway, public parking lot or
semipublic parking lot. The term "semipublic parking lot" shall include any
area wherein motor vehicles are parked by the public in conjunction with any
business, enterprise, commercial establishment, office building or apartment
building. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES REGARDING PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
5-3D-1: Resisting Arrest
5-3D-2: Giving False Information
5-3D-3: False Alarms
5-3D-1: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully resist an arrest
which he knows is being made by a police officer or by a private person
summoned and directed by a police officer to make an arrest. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-
2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
5-3D-2: GIVING FALSE INFORMATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to knowingly give false information to any
official or employee or representative of the Village on any matter pertaining
to or affected by his or her official duties.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal his or her identity or
to falsely identify himself or herself in response to any injury by an official
or employee of the Village in connection with the performance of his or her
official duties. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
5-3D-3: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any
false alarm of fire, riot, explosion, civil disturbance or other breach of the
peace in the Village. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to report the existence of a
fire or other emergency to any law enforcement agency, the Fire Department or
any other agency empowered to deal with an emergency when such person knows the
report to be false. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to report or cause to be
reported to any police agency any information concerning the commission of any
offense or other incident which would require police action when: a) he knows
that no such offense or other incident has occurred; or b) he knows the
information is false or that he has no such information. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003,
eff. 7-7-2003)
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give false
information to the effect that a bomb will be exploded or that any other
serious hazard exists in any public conveyance, place of worship, school,
theater, auditorium, assembly hall, factory, warehouse, industrial, commercial
or residential building or any other placed used for public gatherings.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or
cause to be used any telephone or electronic device or attachment that
automatically selects a public primary telephone trunk line of any law
enforcement agency, the Fire Department, or any other department or bureau of
the Village, and then reproduces any prerecorded message to report any burglary
or other emergency.
   B.   Fees For Accidental Intrusion Alarms: Any person, firm, or corporation
having a burglar, holdup, or any type of intrusion alarm shall be charged a fee
of ten dollars ($10.00) for the first false alarm responded to by the Kankakee
County Sheriff's Department within a calendar year and fifteen dollars ($15.00)
for each false alarm so responded to thereafter within a calendar year. If the
possessor of the alarm shows to the satisfaction of the Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department that the false alarm was not the result of negligence or
improper maintenance, such fee may be waived. (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-2003, eff. 7-7-
2003; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: State Curfew Regulations Adopted
5-4-2: Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
5-4-1: STATE CURFEW REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the State curfew regulations as set out
in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12C-60, as amended, as the curfew
regulations for the Village. Three (3) copies of said regulations are on file
in the Office of the Village Clerk for public use and inspection. (2019 Code)
5-4-2: POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: The term alcoholic liquor, when used in this section, shall
include beer, and beer means a beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of
an infusion or concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops and water,
and includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the
like. (1990 Code § 17.202)
   B.   Prohibition: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall
purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his
possession within the geographic confines of the Village. (1990 Code § 17.201)
   C.   Penalty: Anyone who violates this section shall be punishable by a fine
of at least fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). (1990 Code § 17.203; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Fireworks
5-5-2: Nitroglycerine And TNT
5-5-3: Storage Of Explosives
5-5-4: Penalty
5-5-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell, store, discharge or set off any
fireworks or to give any pyrotechnic display in the Village, except in
connection with public exhibitions as herein provided.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell,
offer for sale or keep for the purpose of selling any fireworks in the Village
at any time. (1990 Code § 18.101)
   B.   Public Displays: No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics
shall be given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the Village
President and Board of Trustees. All such public displays shall be under the
supervision of a competent person and shall be monitored by the Otto Township
Fire Protection District. (1990 Code § 18.101; amd. 2019 Code)
5-5-2: NITROGLYCERINE AND TNT:
It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the Village in any quantities excepting for medicinal
purposes or laboratory purposes and, for such purposes, no more than one-fourth
(1/4) ounce shall be stored in any one building or premises. (1990 Code §
18.102)
5-5-3: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
All explosives must be stored or kept in accordance with the rules of the State
Fire Marshal, subject to the provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code § 18.103)
5-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 18.104; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Village Policy
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Prohibited Acts
5-6-4: Penalty And Enforcement
5-6-1: VILLAGE POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws, in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the Village may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the Village to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
creed, gender, physical or mental disability, marital status, age, military
status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the military,
familial status, or order of protection status to live in decent, sanitary,
healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the Village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, or lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the Village, or any agent of these, shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, creed, gender, physical or mental
disability, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation,
pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the military, familial status, or order
of protection status of such person or persons or discriminate against any
person or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, creed, gender, physical or mental disability, marital status, age,
military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the
military, familial status, or order of protection status in the conditions,
terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation
and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in
connection therewith. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings as ascribed to them
in this section:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
State, and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodations and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, creed, gender, physical or mental disability,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy,
unfavorable discharge from the military, familial status, or order of
protection status of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to a person and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof,
which is used or occupied, or maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied, as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings,
or any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in, any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental, of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rent for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the Village of Chebanse,
Illinois. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
5-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker, salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, or advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing,
to discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, creed, gender, physical or mental
disability, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation,
pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the military, familial status, or order
of protection status with regard to the sale, exchange or rental or any dealing
concerning any housing accommodation and/or real property. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-
2003; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   In addition to subsection A of this section, it shall also be unlawful
for any real estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or
financial institution dealing with housing or real property in the Village:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the Village or in furnishing any facilities or services in connection
therewith. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-2003)
      2.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, creed,
gender, physical or mental disability, marital status, age, military status,
sexual orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the military,
familial status, or order of protection status of any person. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-
2003; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-2003)
      4.   To solicit for sale or lease or list for sale or lease any housing
accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value because of
the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person or persons
of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, creed,
gender, physical or mental disability, marital status, age, military status,
sexual orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the military,
familial status, or order of protection status.
      5.   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
creed, gender, physical or mental disability, marital status, age, military
status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the military,
familial status, or order of protection status of persons in the neighborhood.
      6.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real
property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, creed, gender,
physical or mental disability, marital status, age, military status, sexual
orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the military, familial
status, or order of protection status in the area will or may result in the
lowering of property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the
property is located.
      7.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, creed, gender, physical or mental disability, marital status, age,
military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from the
military, familial status, or order of protection status.
      8.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, creed, gender, physical or mental disability,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy,
unfavorable discharge from the military, familial status, or order of
protection status of the proposed buyer or tenant. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-2003; amd.
2019 Code)
5-6-4: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the Village to specifically enforce, by any legal means,
any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 03-01, 1-6-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: School Crossings
6-1-2: Truck Traffic Prohibited On Certain Street; Exceptions
6-1-3: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
6-1-1: SCHOOL CROSSINGS:
   A.   Definition: A school crossing signal is a permanently mounted
electrically operated signal device equipped with two-way, two-color (red and
yellow) signal heads, together with a diamond shaped, single faced sign reading
"School Crossing", by which, at predetermined times and when actuated by push
button, traffic is directed to stop so as to permit school children to cross
the street or highway safely. (1990 Code § 12.101)
   B.   Duty Of Driver: Whenever the red lens of a school crossing signal is
illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line
when marked or, if none, then before entering the intersection, and pedestrians
within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the
right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded
the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection may proceed, but shall also yield the right-of- way to pedestrians
within any other crosswalk at the intersection. In the event school crossing
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this subsection shall also be applicable. (1990 Code § 12.102)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates subsection B of this section shall be
fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (1990 Code § 12.103; amd. 2019 Code)
6-1-2: TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREET; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful and illegal for anyone to drive or operate a tractor-
trailer upon First South Street west of Chestnut Street in the Village. (1990
Code § 12.201; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this section shall be
fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense. (1990 Code § 12.203; amd. 2019
Code)
6-1-3: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no driver may
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a roadway in the Village except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no passenger may
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a roadway in the Village except in the original container
and with the seal unbroken.
   C.   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini-motor home as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01. However, the driver of
any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in
or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the driver
shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this section.
For the purposes of this subsection, a limousine is a motor vehicle of the
first division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or
dividing window used in the for-hire transportation of passengers and operated
by an individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes section
5/6-104. (2019 Code)
   D.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this section shall be
fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense. (1990 Code § 12.203; amd. 2019
Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Authority To Regulate Parking
6-2-2: Parking Permit For Certain Area
6-2-3: Parking In Residential Areas
6-2-4: Parking After Snowfall
6-2-5: Violations
6-2-6: Penalties
6-2-1: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE PARKING:
When the Corporate Authorities of the Village find that the width of a street
under normal traffic conditions or other physical conditions connected with or
affecting any street are such as to require it for public safety purposes or to
avoid impeding the free flow of traffic, that may be resolved or other action
duly entered upon in the minutes of their proceedings designating either side,
or both sides, or any part of any public street as an area or areas where the
parking of vehicles shall be prohibited or restricted, either at all times, on
certain days or between certain hours of certain days, or of every day, as they
may stipulate. Signs shall be erected and maintained giving notice thereof.
(1990 Code § 12.301)
6-2-2: PARKING PERMIT FOR CERTAIN AREA:
A parking permit agreement is required to allow a permittee to park on/in the
parking area at the northwest corner of Chebanse Avenue and Oak Street in the
Village, and the permittee shall use said parking area under the terms and
conditions as set forth in attachment A on file in the Village. (Ord. 10-06, 9-
20-2010; amd. 2019 Code)
6-2-3: PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
   A.   Restrictions Generally: It shall be unlawful for the operator or owner
of any motor vehicle except a passenger vehicle, public utility truck, RV,
emergency vehicle, and trucks registered by the State under the classification
of 7 and under to park such vehicle within residential areas in the Village.
The requirements of this subsection shall not apply to commercial vehicles
parked within the Village limits for the purpose of delivering or collecting
persons, materials or merchandise or performing some service to the residents
on whose property or adjacent to whose property the vehicle is being parked for
a period of under an hour.
   B.   Permit Parking Area: In accordance with section
6-2-2 of this chapter, the Village has designated a permit parking area for
motor vehicles in the categories listed in subsection A of this section.
Provided, that all permit requirements are met, such vehicles shall lawfully
park in the designated area at the northwest corner of Chebanse Avenue and Oak
Street in the Village.
   C.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   Violation A Nuisance; Vehicle May Be Towed: Any motor vehicle parked
in violation of the provisions of this section shall be considered a hazard to
traffic and a public nuisance and may be removed by an authorized towing
service. (Ord. 12-01, 1-3-2012, eff. 2-1-2012)
      2.   Penalties: The owner of any motor vehicle parked in violation of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in
section
6-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-01, 1-3-2012, eff. 2-1-2012; amd. 2019 Code)
6-2-4: PARKING AFTER SNOWFALL:
After a snowstorm, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle
on any public street or to permit a motor vehicle which has been parked to
remain on any public street in the Village at any time within twelve (12) hours
after a snowfall of three (3) or more inches has occurred, or where snowdrifts
in excess of six inches (6") in depth have accumulated unless the snow has been
plowed off or otherwise removed from the street. (1990 Code § 12.303)
6-2-5: VIOLATIONS:
No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any prohibition or restriction
when public notice thereof shall be duly indicated by official sign or signs
executed as provided in section
6-2-1 of this chapter. Provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as
prohibiting a vehicle from standing in an area prohibited or restricted
pursuant to the provision of section
6-2-1 of this chapter for such period of time as is necessary for the reason of
expeditious loading or unloading passengers, provided such loading or unloading
shall not consume more than three (3) minutes, nor to prohibit or restrict any
commercial vehicle from standing in any such area for such period of time as is
necessary for reasonable expeditious loading, unloading and delivery or pick up
of goods, merchandise, articles or materials, provided such loading, unloading
and delivery or pick up shall not consume more than thirty (30) minutes.
Neither shall any such prohibition or restriction be construed to apply to any
ambulance, police, utility or emergency vehicle while the operator thereof is
engaged in the necessary performance of emergency or police duties, nor shall
it be construed to prohibit any vehicle from being brought to a stop to avoid
collision or standing in compliance with the order of any public officer or the
direction of any traffic control signal. (1990 Code § 12.302)
6-2-6: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the
first violation, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second violation, and
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and mandatory towing for a third violation. Each
violation shall be considered a separate offense. (1990 Code § 12.304; amd.
2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Stop Intersections
6-3-2: Speed Limits
6-3-1: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Two-Way Stop Intersections: Stop signs shall be posted at the following
intersections in the Village:
School Street and Third South Street. Anyone who fails to stop at this
intersection shall be punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
West First South Street and Short Street.
(Ord. 03-14, 11-3-2003; amd. Ord. 04-03, 3-15-2004; 2019 Code)
   B.   Three-Way Stop Intersections: Stop signs shall be erected at the
following intersections:
First South Street and School Street. Southwest, southeast, and northwest
corners.
Oak Street and George Street. Northeast, northwest and southeast corners.
(Ord. 14-01, 2-3-2014)
   C.   Four-Way Stop Intersections: Stop signs shall be erected at the
following intersections:
Northwest, southeast, northeast and southwest corners of the intersection of
Chebanse Avenue and Oak Street.
Northwest, southwest, northeast and southeast corners of First South Street and
Walnut Street.
(Ord. 94-5, 6-20-1994; amd. Ord. 97-2, 2-3-1997; 2019 Code)
6-3-2: SPEED LIMITS:
No person shall drive a vehicle upon any street of the Village at a speed which
is greater than twenty (20) miles per hour, with the exception of travel on Oak
Street, Chebanse Avenue, and Chestnut Street from Chebanse Avenue north to the
Village limits, which are otherwise posted. Anyone who violates this section
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 98-07, 8-17-1998;
amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Abandonment Prohibited
6-4-3: Notice To Sheriff's Department
6-4-4: Responsibility For Abandoned Vehicle; Towing And Impoundment
6-4-5: Record Of Tows
6-4-6: Procedures For Determining Ownership Of Vehicle
6-4-7: Reclamation Of Vehicle
6-4-8: Disposition Of Vehicle
6-4-9: Report Of Vehicle Disposition
6-4-10: Disposition Of Proceeds
6-4-11: Nonliability Of Enforcement Officers And Towing Service
6-4-12: Exemptions From Provisions
6-4-13: Appeals
6-4-14: Violation; Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor
vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years of
age or older.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
entity or organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the Village which is not a street or
highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon. (Ord. 05-10,
10-3-2005)
6-4-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the Village, and no person
shall leave any abandoned vehicle at any place within the Village for such time
and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to
have been abandoned.
   B.   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part
thereof, on any highway in the Village is unlawful and subject to penalties as
set forth in this chapter.
   C.   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part
thereof, on private or public property (other than a highway), in view of the
general public, anywhere in the Village is unlawful. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005)
   D.   A motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part thereof, so abandoned on
private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the
Kankakee County Sheriff's Department or Municipal Police Department, if
applicable, after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more has expired or may
be removed immediately if determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor
vehicle under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-40-3.1. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-
2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-3: NOTICE TO SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT:
   A.   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the
Village, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
Kankakee County Sheriff's Department when the vehicle is within the corporate
limits of the Village.
   B.   Upon receipt of such notification, the Kankakee County Sheriff's
Department shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of
the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The
towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a
record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person
legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ABANDONED VEHICLE; TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Responsibility Of Property Owner: No person in charge or control of any
property within the Village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any abandoned, partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than
seven (7) days, and no person shall leave any such vehicle on any property
within the Village for a longer time than seven (7) days; except, that this
chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise, or a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place or manner by the Village. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005)
   B.   Towing Vehicles:
      1.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
the Village ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department.
      2.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or
private property adjacent to the highway by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department.
      3.   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department, the owner of
the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs.
   C.   Impoundment: The Kankakee County Sheriff's Department is hereby
authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the
Village which reasonably appears to be left or abandoned in violation of this
chapter or lost, stolen or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/4-2-1 et seq. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-5: RECORD OF TOWS:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Kankakee County Sheriff's Department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number and the registration sticker year and number
displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of
tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of
the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-6: PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING OWNERSHIP OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Whenever any motor vehicle has been impounded pursuant to this chapter,
the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department shall, within ten (10) days
thereafter, ascertain, if possible, from the Secretary of State of Illinois the
name of the owner, lienholder and any other person legally entitled to
possession of such motor vehicle by reason of an existing conditional sale
contract having a lien as chattel mortgagee, or any other reason, and cause to
be sent to such owner, lienholder and to such other person legally entitled to
possession, if known, a notice of the impoundment including a full description
of the vehicle. If the impounded vehicle is currently registered with the
Secretary of State's Office, notice shall be sent to the owner, lienholder and
any other person legally entitled to possession of the vehicle by certified
mail. If the impounded vehicle is not currently registered with the Secretary
of State's Office, such notice shall be sent to the most recent registered
owner at the most recent registered address by first class mail. However, no
such notice need be sent to the owner of record if the owner is personally
served with the notice within ten (10) days after the vehicle is seized and
impounded, and the owner acknowledges receipt of the notice in writing.
   B.   When the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department does not know the
identity of the registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person,
they will cause the motor vehicle registration records of the State of Illinois
to be searched by a directed communication to the Secretary of State for the
purpose of obtaining the required ownership information. The Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the Illinois State
Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the Illinois State
Police files are searched with negative results, the information contained in
the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the
Illinois State Police. The information determined from these record searches
will be used by the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department in sending a
notification by certified mail to the owner, lienholder or legally entitled
person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and
setting forth public sale information. Notification shall be sent no later than
ten (10) business days after the date the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department
impounds or authorizes the impounding of a vehicle; provided, that if the
Kankakee County Sheriff's Department is unable to determine the identity of the
registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to ownership of
the impounded vehicle within a ten (10) business day period after impoundment,
then notification shall be sent no later than two (2) days after the date the
identity of the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled
to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined. Exceptions to a
notification by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder and other
legally entitled persons are set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-
209.
   C.   When the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled
to the possession of motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of this State or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department shall
notify the Illinois State Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle's
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The
information obtained by the Illinois State Police will be immediately forwarded
to the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department for notification of owner. (Ord.
05-10, 10-3-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-7: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner, lienholder or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the
Kankakee County Sheriff's Department proof of ownership or proof of the right
to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner,
lienholder or other person under this section until all towing and storage
charges, plus all amounts due for outstanding final determinations of ordinance
violations, have been paid. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-8: DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Vehicle Seven Years Of Age Or Newer:
      1.   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle seven (7) years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the
registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to its possession
for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as provided
herein, the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department shall cause it to be sold at
public auction to a person licensed as an automotive parts recycler, rebuilder
or scrap processor or the towing operator which towed the vehicle. Notice of
the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at
least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has
been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to
be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the
Kankakee County Sheriff's Department or towing service to be legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle. In those instances where the
certified notification specified herein has been returned by the postal
authorities to the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department due to the addressee
having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the registration
records of this State, the sending of a second certified notice will not be
required.
      2.   When the identity of the registered lienholder, owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed
vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or
disposed of in the manner authorized by this chapter without notice to any
person whose identity cannot be determined.
   B.   Vehicle Over Seven Years Of Age:
      1.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, or when any such vehicle is towed at
the request or with the consent of the owner or operator and is subsequently
abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage for a minimum of ten (10) days
for the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner,
lienholder, or other legally entitled persons and contacting the registered
owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled persons by the U.S. mail, public
service or in person for a determination of disposition, and an examination of
the State Police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the
expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons, the vehicle may be disposed of in either of the
following ways:
         a.   The Kankakee County Sheriff's Department will authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk or salvage.
         b.   The towing service may sell the vehicle in the manner provided in
subsection A1 of this section; provided, that this subsection B1b shall not
apply to vehicles towed by order or authorization of the Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department.
      2.   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle, expanded use antique
vehicle, custom vehicle, or street rod may, however, be sold to a person
desiring to restore it. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-9: REPORT OF VEHICLE DISPOSITION:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department is reclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder or other
legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or
otherwise disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction
will be maintained by the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department for a period of
one year from the date of the sale or disposal. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd.
2019 Code)
6-4-10: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the Village is authorized
to be towed away by the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department and disposed of as
set forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition,
after the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges, shall be
deposited in the Municipal Treasury. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4-11: NONLIABILITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND TOWING SERVICE:
   A.   The Kankakee County Sheriff's Department or towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in
any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner, or his
legal representative, lienholder or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed
and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005;
amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   A towing service, and any of its officers or employees, that removes or
tows a vehicle as a result of being directed to do so by the Kankakee County
Sheriff's Department or any Village officer or employee shall not be held to
answer or be liable for loss of or damages to any real or personal property
that occurs in the course of the removal or towing of a vehicle or its
contents: 1) on a limited access highway in a designated Incident Management
Program that uses fast lane clearance techniques as defined by the Department
of Transportation; or 2) at the direction of a peace officer, a highway
authority official, or a representative of the Village, under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-402 or 5/11-404. (2019 Code)
6-4-12: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is excluded
from this chapter. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005)
6-4-13: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a finding or action under this chapter including, but
not limited to, impounding a motor vehicle as an abandoned vehicle, in whole or
in part, shall have the right to appeal the finding and/or action to the
Village Board. All appeals shall be taken on the form provided by the Village.
Any and all appeals shall be filed with the Village Clerk no later than
fourteen (14) days after the finding or decision. The appeal shall occur within
thirty (30) days of the filing of the request for appeal. In the event that an
appeal is not taken within fourteen (14) days of the aggrieved finding or
action, the applicant shall be deemed to have acquiesced in or agreed to the
action, and the matter shall be deemed concluded. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005; amd.
2019 Code)
6-4-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 05-10, 10-3-2005)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision And Enforcement
7-1-2: Construction Requirements
7-1-3: Repairs And Defects
7-1-4: Excavations
7-1-5: Street Openings
7-1-6: Obstructions And Encroachments
7-1-7: Deposits On Public Ways
7-1-8: Additional Restricted And Prohibited Acts
7-1-9: Safety Devices
7-1-10: Mailboxes And Newspaper Delivery Boxes
7-1-11: Penalty
7-1-1: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the Chair of the Streets and Alleys Committee. The Chair shall
have supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such
public places (except traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce
such ordinances. (1990 Code § 10.101)
7-1-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way or to replace the
same without having first secured a permit therefor.
   B.   Ineligibility For Permit:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the installation, construction or
replacement of any sidewalk if the construction, installation or replacement of
such sidewalk shall reduce the width of any improved street from the face of
the curb on one side to the face of the curb on the other side, the greater of
either thirty three feet (33') or the width of the right-of-way of said street.
      2.   No such permit shall be issued to construct a sidewalk less than
three feet (3') in width.
   C.   Application For Permit: Applications for a permit shall be made to the
Village Board of Trustees, and the application shall state the location of the
intended pavement or repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is
to do the actual construction work. (1990 Code § 10.102)
   D.   Bond: Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), with sureties to be approved by the Village Board of
Trustees, conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss or damage resulting
from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same or for failure to
complete the same. (1990 Code § 10.103; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   Issuance Of Permit; Compliance With Specifications: No permit shall be
issued except on order or resolution of the Village Board of Trustees, and all
such work shall be done in accordance with Village specifications. (1990 Code §
10.102)
7-1-3: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in
good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the Village or the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the Chair of the Streets and Alleys
Committee who shall be notified prior to the commencement of any repairs. (1990
Code § 10.106; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Defects: It shall be the duty of every Village officer or employee
becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any
obstruction thereof, to report the same to the Chair of the Streets and Alleys
Committee as soon as possible. (1990 Code § 10.107)
7-1-4: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in or
tunnel under any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the
Village without having first secured a permit therefor.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made
to the Village Board of Trustees and shall specify the intended location and
the purpose of the excavation.
      3.   Bond Or Indemnification: No person shall make any such excavation or
tunnel without first having secured and furnished the Village with a copy of or
certificate of a bond or policy conditioned to indemnify and hold the Village
harmless from any loss, damage or liability resulting from the work done or any
acts or omissions in connection therewith.
   B.   Restoration Of Excavated Area: Any person making any such excavation
shall refill the same properly and shall restore the surface to its condition
before the excavation was made, as soon as possible. (1990 Code § 10.114)
   C.   Supervision: All such excavations, refills and resurfacing shall be
made subject to the supervision and under the direction of the Village
Engineer. (1990 Code § 10.114; amd. 2019 Code)
7-1-5: STREET OPENINGS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
opening or stairway in any public street, alley or sidewalk or other public
place without a permit from the Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 10.115)
   B.   Safety Requirements: All such lawfully maintained openings shall be
guarded by a suitable strong cover or railing built to the approval of the
Chair of the Streets and Alleys Committee and Village Engineer. (1990 Code §
10.115; amd. 2019 Code)
7-1-6: OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Obstructions: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way, except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or
resolution. (1990 Code § 10.108)
   B.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property. (1990 Code §
10.112)
7-1-7: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, leaves, grass or
rubbish, or any glass or articles which may cause injury to any person, animal
or property.
      2.   Coal or other materials may be deposited on streets preparatory to
delivery for use; provided, that such deposit does not reduce the usable width
of the street or roadway at that point to less than eighteen feet (18'); and
provided, that such material or coal, other than material used in actual
building construction, shall not be permitted to remain in such street for more
than three (3) hours. (1990 Code § 10.117)
      3.   Any such material shall be guarded by lights if the same remains
upon any street after dark. (1990 Code § 10.117; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1990 Code §
10.118)
7-1-8: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Damage To Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon or damage any newly laid street or alley pavement while
the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade or to knowingly damage any
street, sidewalk or alley pavement. (1990 Code § 10.105)
   B.   Private Use: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to use any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place as space for the
display of goods or merchandise for sale or to write or mark any signs or
advertisements on any such pavement. (1990 Code § 10.111)
   C.   Poles And Wires Over Public Ways: It shall be unlawful to erect any
poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires over any public place, street,
alley or other public way without first having secured permission from the
Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 10.113)
7-1-9: SAFETY DEVICES:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on
a street, sidewalk or other public place or making an excavation in the same
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle
by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at
nighttime.
      2.   Any defect in any pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury,
and any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or
excavation in any such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the
same remains open by proper barricades and lights. (1990 Code § 10.109)
   B.   Disturbing Devices Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to disturb or
interfere with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any
new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1990 Code § 10.110)
7-1-10: MAILBOXES AND NEWSPAPER DELIVERY BOXES:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   No mailbox or newspaper delivery box shall be installed on a curbed
street without a setback of six inches (6") from the curb at a height of thirty
six inches (36") to forty two inches (42") from the bottom of the mailbox or
newspaper delivery box per the drawing marked as exhibit A on file in the
Village.
      2.   No mailbox or newspaper delivery box installation adjacent to a
street without curbs shall be set back six feet (6') from the edge of the
street and at a height of thirty six inches (36") to forty two inches (42")
from the bottom of the mailbox or newspaper delivery box per the drawing marked
as exhibit B on file in the Village. (Ord. 04-08, 5-3-2004; amd. 2019 Code)
7-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 10.120; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DRIVEWAYS, CULVERTS, PIPES, DITCHES AND DRAINS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Requirements
7-2-2: Driveway Standards
7-2-3: Drainage And Culvert Requirements
7-2-4: Construction Requirements And Restrictions
7-2-5: Inspection Upon Completion
7-2-6: Lien Provisions
7-2-7: Responsibility For Costs Of Construction, Operation And Maintenance
7-2-8: Village Guarantees And Liabilities
7-2-9: Appeals
7-2-10: Penalty
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall hereafter in any manner, improve,
construct, build, establish, replace or maintain a driveway or driveway culvert
pipe or ditch or drain (as defined in the Illinois Drainage Code) in a street
or right- of-way maintained by the Village without first obtaining a permit to
do so as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Application For Permit; Fee: Residents may obtain the Application and
Permit for Driveway, Culvert, Ditch or Drain Construction or Replacement forms
from the Chair of the Streets and Alleys Committee or his authorized deputy.
Completed applications shall be submitted in duplicate along with a
nonrefundable fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) to cover processing and
inspection, to the Chair of the Streets and Alleys Committee or his authorized
deputy.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: Upon review of the permit application by
the Streets and Alleys Committee, the committee shall determine whether the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter. If it does, the
Chair of the Committee or his authorized deputy will issue the permit for work.
If the proposed work does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, the
committee shall deny issuance of the permit. If approval is denied, the
applicant may appeal to the Village Board of Trustees for an override of the
decision rendered by the Streets and Alleys Committee.
   D.   Variances: The Village Board may vary or adapt the strict application
of any of the requirements of this chapter where the strict application would
result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship that would deprive the
owner of the reasonable use of the land, but in no other case. (Ord. 01-03, 10-
15-2001)
7-2-2: DRIVEWAY STANDARDS:
All driveways hereafter constructed, replaced, established or maintained shall
conform with the following:
   A.   Width:
      1.   Minimum width: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Maximum width:
         a.   Residential:
            (1)   Single driveway: Twenty feet (20').
            (2)   Combined driveway to serve adjacent lots: Twenty four feet
(24').
         b.   Commercial or agricultural: Thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Entrance Radius:
      1.   Minimum entrance radius: Five feet (5').
      2.   Maximum entrance radius: Thirty feet (30').
   C.   Minimum Distance Between Adjacent Driveways: The minimum distance
between adjacent driveways is six feet (6') (except for a combined driveway
serving adjacent lots).
   D.   Driveway Surface (Over Compacted Subgrade):
      1.   Crushed Stone Minimum Thickness: Six inches (6").
      2.   Concrete Minimum Thickness: Five inches (5").
      3.   Bituminous: No required minimum thickness of bituminous surface but
it must be constructed over a compacted crushed stone base not less than six
inches (6") in thickness.
      4.   New Developments And Subdivisions: For all newly constructed
residential or commercial development and subdivisions, all driveway surfaces
shall consist of concrete or bituminous materials only. Crushed stone or gravel
shall not be allowed.
   E.   Side Slopes: The maximum side slopes is two to one (2:1). (Ord. 01-03,
10-15-2001)
7-2-3: DRAINAGE AND CULVERT REQUIREMENTS:
In no event shall any driveway or work in any ditch or drain under the
Village's jurisdiction interfere with existing drainage along and upon the
right-of-way. In all cases where the driveway or proposed driveway does or may
interfere with the existing drainage within the right-of-way, culverts shall be
installed in accordance with the following specifications:
   A.   Minimum size: Twelve inch (12") diameter.
   B.   Piping materials may be of the following:
      1.   Galvanized, corrugated steel pipe: Minimum gauge - 16.
      2.   Aluminum alloy pipe: Minimum gauge - 16.
      3.   PVC pipe: Minimum - SDR26.
      4.   Other materials approved by the Streets and Alleys Committee for use
in the Village.
   C.   Flow line of the culvert shall match the flow of the ditch.
   D.   Culvert length shall be sufficient to provide a one foot (1') minimum
of exposed pipe extending beyond the intersection of the driveway side slopes
and the flow line of the ditch, but in no case shall the total culvert length
be less than twenty four feet (24').
   E.   There shall be a minimum of six inches (6") of cover, including the
driveway surface, over the culvert pipe. (Ord. 01-03, 10-15-2001)
7-2-4: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   1. All work shall be completed within a reasonable time after
commencement, and upon completion, the applicant shall sow grass seed or take
such other measures as may be appropriate to protect the right-of-way and
prevent washout or other destruction or deterioration of the driveway.
      2.   Immediately upon completion of the work, the applicant shall remove
all debris and excess excavation materials from the right-of-way.
      3.   If, in the opinion of the Streets and Alleys Committee, the work is
not completed within a reasonable time, the committee shall give the applicant
thirty (30) days to complete the work. If the work is not completed within that
time, the Village may complete the work, and the applicant and/or owner shall
reimburse the Village for costs incurred.
   B.   All work in connection with driveways, driveway culverts, culverts,
ditches and drains in public rights-of-way or streets under the Village's
jurisdiction and control shall be done in such a manner that there is no
interference or constriction with drainage and that there is, at a minimum,
enhancement of existing drainage in the event that such existing drainage is
not sufficient. In connection herewith, the Streets and Alleys Committee shall
approve all methods, means, sequences, designs and materials for such work.
(Ord. 01-03, 10-15-2001)
7-2-5: INSPECTION UPON COMPLETION:
When work is complete, the applicant shall notify the Streets and Alleys
Committee that the work is ready for inspection. The inspection will be
conducted by the Chair or other member of the Streets and Alleys Committee or a
representative of the Village Engineer or other person authorized by the
Village Board of Trustees. Should the work be found unacceptable, the applicant
shall have thirty (30) days within which to upgrade the construction to meet
the requirements of this chapter. If, at the end of that time, the work is
still unacceptable, the Village may complete the work, and the applicant and/or
owner of the property shall reimburse the Village for costs incurred. (Ord. 01-
03, 10-15-2001)
7-2-6: LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Costs A Lien: The cost of any work performed by or on behalf of the
Village pursuant to sections
7-2-4 and
7-2-5 of this chapter shall be a lien upon the real estate served by the
driveway.
   B.   Notice Of Lien:
      1.   Whenever a bill for such work remains unpaid thirty (30) days after
it has been rendered to the property owner, the Village Clerk shall file,
within sixty (60) days after the cost and expense of such work is incurred,
with the Recorder of Deeds of Iroquois County or Kankakee County, a notice of
lien. The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: a) a
description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof; b) the
amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
work; and c) the date or dates which such cost and expense was incurred by the
Village.
      2.   A copy of such notice shall be mailed by the Village Clerk to the
owner of the premises at his last known address, if his address is known to the
Clerk, otherwise, to the owner at the address of said premises.
   C.   Foreclosure Of Lien:
      1.   Property subject to a lien for such unpaid bills shall be sold for
nonpayment of same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges, after deducting collection costs, including reasonable attorney fees,
as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
      2.   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized to institute such
proceedings in the name of the Village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, within two (2) years from the date the costs and expenses were
incurred.
   D.   Additional Lien Provisions: In addition to the above lien, the Village
may file a lien and proceed against the property served by the driveway in
accordance with and under the provisions of the Illinois Mechanics Lien Act or
avail itself of any other legal remedy. (Ord. 01-03, 10-15-2001)
7-2-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The applicant shall bear the cost of furnishing all necessary
construction, labor, materials, and related items necessary to comply with this
chapter.
   B.   Maintenance of any driveway and the costs thereof shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property served by or abutting upon such
driveway.
   C.   The maintenance of the culvert within the right-of-way, related to such
driveway, other than replacement, which shall be the responsibility of the
owner, shall be the responsibility of the Village. (Ord. 01-03, 10-15-2001)
   D.   The owner shall at all times reasonably maintain that portion of the
driveway within the Village right-of-way. (Ord. 01-03, 10-15-2001; amd. 2019
Code)
7-2-8: VILLAGE GUARANTEES AND LIABILITIES:
   A.   Guarantees: While requiring minimum standards for driveway and culvert
construction and for drainage, the Village in no way guarantees that these
minimum standards are adequate for the intended use of the improvements.
   B.   Liabilities: Through issuing the applicant a permit to construct a
driveway or culvert or to make improvements in connection with ditches and
drains on or near a Village right-of-way and thereafter permitting the owner of
the property served by the driveway and related culvert improvements to operate
and maintain said improvements, the Village assumes no liability therefor, and
the owner of said property shall maintain such driveway in a serviceable manner
and hold the Village harmless from all claims resulting from construction,
operation or maintenance of said driveway. (Ord. 01-03, 10-15-2001)
7-2-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal from any adverse decision of any person or committee pursuant to
section
7-2-4 or
7-2-5 of this chapter, shall be taken to the Village Board of Trustees. The
Village Board may vary the strict application of any of the requirements of
this chapter where the strict application would result in practical difficulty
or unnecessary hardship that would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of
the land, but in no other case.
   B.   Written notice of appeal shall be filed with Village Clerk no later
than fourteen (14) days after written notice of the adverse decision is mailed
or delivered to the owner by a representative of the Village.
   C.   The Village Board shall consider the appeal and render a decision
within forty five (45) days thereafter. (Ord. 01-03, 10-15-2001)
7-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which such violation occurs. (Ord.
01-03, 10-15-2001; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Planting And Removal Permits
7-3-2: Damage To, Protection Of Trees And Shrubs
7-3-3: Trimming, Removing Trees And Shrubs
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: PLANTING AND REMOVAL PERMITS:
   A.   Planting Permit: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in any
public street or parkway or other public place without having first secured a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village
Clerk and shall be referred to the Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code §
10.201)
   B.   Removal Permit: It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or
shrub in any street, parkway or other public place without having first secured
a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village
Clerk and shall be referred to the Village Board of Trustees for approval
before permission shall be granted. (1990 Code § 10.202)
7-3-2: DAMAGE TO, PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Injury: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any
public place. (1990 Code § 10.203)
   B.   Posting Advertisements Or Notices: It shall be unlawful to attach any
sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in any street, parkway or
other public place. (1990 Code § 10.204)
   C.   Utility Wires And Poles: Any person or company given the right to
maintain poles and wires in the streets, alleys or other public places in the
Village shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the
subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs
in such places so far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and
shrubs properly trimmed so that no injury shall be done to the poles or wires
or shrubs and trees by contact. (1990 Code § 10.206)
   D.   Gas Pipes: Any person, firm or corporation maintaining any gas pipes in
the Village shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the
subject, keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any
tree or shrub. (1990 Code § 10.207)
   E.   Excavations: In making excavations in streets or other public places,
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub
wherever possible. (1990 Code § 10.208)
7-3-3: TRIMMING, REMOVING TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or public place
in the Village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel
on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises on
which such tree or shrub grows so that it is not less than ten feet (10') above
the sidewalk, street or public place. (1990 Code § 10.205; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which the
tree grows or stands. (1990 Code § 10.205)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 10.209; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
STREET NAMES AND BUILDING NUMBERS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Street Names
7-4-2: Building Numbers
7-4-1: STREET NAMES:
The names of all streets shall be placed on street corners, and no person shall
damage or obstruct any street sign. (1990 Code § 10.401)
7-4-2: BUILDING NUMBERS:
   A.   Numbering Required: It is hereby made the duty of the owner, agent or
person in possession of any building in the Village to number it in the
prescribed manner. (1990 Code § 10.403)
   B.   Assignment Of Numbers: The Village Clerk shall assign or cause to be
assigned to each lot, part of a lot, residence, apartment or place of business,
a legal number in accordance with such system as shall be set forth by the
Village President and Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 10.402)
   C.   Chart: The Village Clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street
number of every lot in the Village which shall be open to the public for
inspection by anyone interested. (1990 Code § 9.202)
CHAPTER 5
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose; Conflicting Provisions
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Permitted Use; Restrictions
7-5-4: Permits Required
7-5-5: Permit Requirements And Conditions To Collocate
7-5-6: Permit Application Fees
7-5-7: Collocation Requirements And Conditions
7-5-8: Prohibited Collocations
7-5-9: Pre-Existing Agreements
7-5-10: Annual Recurring Rate
7-5-11: Insurance And Indemnification
7-5-12: Abandonment
7-5-13: Dispute Resolution
7-5-14: Exemptions From Provisions
7-5-1: PURPOSE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions:
      1.   This chapter supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances
adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such
conflict.
      2.   In the event that applicable Federal or State laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the wireless provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible
without violating Federal or State laws or regulations. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-2018,
eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites, that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the Village
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a Special Purpose District located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cutoff switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: A. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
1) equipment associated with wireless communications; and 2) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities.
   B.   Wireless facility does not include: 1) the structure or improvements
on, under, or within which the equipment is collocated; or 2) wireline backhaul
facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise
not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-3: PERMITTED USE; RESTRICTIONS:
Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and subject to
administrative review, except as provided in subsection 7-5-7I of this chapter
regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to review or approval
if they are collocated: a) in rights-of-way in any zoning district; or b)
outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or
industrial use. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   B.   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the Village to
collocate a small wireless facility. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS TO COLLOCATE:
An application shall be received and processed, and permits issued shall be
subject to the following conditions and requirements:
   A.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
      6.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
      7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
   B.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as follows:
      1.   Priority Application: The first completed application shall have
priority over applications received by different applicants for collocation on
the same utility pole or wireless support structure.
      2.   Collocation On Existing Pole Or Support Structure:
         a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the Village fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application.
         b.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
seventy five (75) days after the submission of a completed application.
         c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
      3.   Collocation On New Pole:
         a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission
of a completed application.
         b.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
         c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt
of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the Village denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
      4.   Denial Of Application: The Village shall deny an application which
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
         a.   If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
         b.   The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
Village denies an application.
         c.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village
and resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The Village shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty
(30) days after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed
approved. Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days
of denial shall require the applicant to submit a new application with
applicable fees, and recommencement of the Village review period.
         d.   The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
         e.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
      5.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the
Village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the Village for the initial collocation on a Municipal utility pole
by the applicant. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the Village and the applicant
shall enter into a license supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
   C.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving an
application, the Village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village. Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the
Village sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides
the missing information.
   D.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
      1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the Village;
or
      2.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   E.   Consolidated Applications:
      1.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities within
the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure.
      2.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
Village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
   F.   Duration Of Permits; Renewals:
      1.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than five
(5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole does not comply with the applicable Village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
      2.   If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals
of permits shall be subject to the applicable Village Code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
   G.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit applications,
supporting information and notices to the Village by personal delivery at the
Village's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked on the date
due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail. (Ord. 18-
04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-6: PERMIT APPLICATION FEES:
Application fees are imposed as follows:
   A.   The applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
   B.   The applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
   C.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local ordinance,
applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the required
application fee. Application fees shall be nonrefundable. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-
2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-7: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   B.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   C.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies:
      1.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications.
      2.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment.
      3.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      4.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
      5.   The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in subsection C4 of this section. Failure
to remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public
nuisance.
   D.   No Collocation On Poles Involved With Electricity:
      1.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on Village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
      2.   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   E.   Compliance With Public Safety Codes And Regulations: The wireless
provider shall comply with all applicable codes and local code provisions or
regulations that concern public safety.
   F.   Compliance With Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply
with written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative
utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements
that are set forth in a Village ordinance, written policy adopted by the
Village, a comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
   G.   Alternate Placements:
      1.   Except as provided in this section, a wireless provider shall not be
required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole,
or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna
systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility
pole, the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on
an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one
hundred feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall
accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms
and conditions, and the alternate location and structure do not impose
technical limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
      2.   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this subsection.
   H.   Height Limitations:
      1.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support structure on
which the small wireless facility is collocated.
      2.   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
   I.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height for a
new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which the
small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall apply
for a special use permit or variance in conformance with the procedures, terms
and conditions set forth in this Code.
   J.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   K.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   L.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   M.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant. (Ord.
18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-8: PROHIBITED COLLOCATIONS:
Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   A.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   B.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   C.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, "public utility" has the meaning
given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1)
to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service; or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this chapter. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-9: PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Existing agreements between the Village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on Village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
   B.   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
Village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two (2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by
notifying the Village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The
existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination
provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has
collocated on the Village utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the Village before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its
option under this subsection. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-10: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE:
   A.   A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year; or 2) the
actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of
space on the Village utility pole.
   B.   If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00), payable on the first day
after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of
intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter. (Ord. 18-
04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-11: INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Insurance:
      1.   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own
cost and expense, the following insurance:
         a.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against
all risks;
         b.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
         c.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
      2.   The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      3.   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this subsection. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self- insure the insurance coverage limits required by the Village.
   B.   Indemnification:
      1.   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless
against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage
resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of
the Village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by
the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of
the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act.
      2.   A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the Village or its employees or agents.
      3.   A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may
have against the Village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special
damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-
2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-12: ABANDONMENT:
   A.   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after receipt
of written notice from the Village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
   B.   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
   C.   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
Village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-13: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Iroquois County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-04, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
7-5-14: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The Village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or require
any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider authorized to
occupy the rights-of-way for:
   A.   Routine maintenance;
   B.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with subsection 7-5-5A4 of this chapter; or
   C.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement of
micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes. (Ord. 18-04, 7-16-
2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
TITLE 8
UTILITY SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Service Agreement Required
8-1-2: Application For Water Service; Connection Fee
8-1-3: Water Meters
8-1-4: Water Service Connections And Cost
8-1-5: Rates And Charges
8-1-5-1: Water Bill Collector
8-1-5-2: User Rates Established
8-1-5-3: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-1-1: WATER SERVICE AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   The water service agreement on file in the Village as exhibit A is
hereby required to be executed by all users of the Village water distribution
system. Should any user or users refuse to or fail to execute and deliver the
water service agreement to the Village Hall within thirty (30) days of
presentation of the agreement, the water service to such property shall be
discontinued by disconnection. (Ord. 17-04, 9-18-2017)
8-1-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; CONNECTION FEE:
   A.   Application And Agreement For Water Service:
      1.   Any prospective water user of the Village desiring water service
shall complete and submit to the utility a "Water Service Application and
Agreement". The application and agreement shall request the following
information:
         a.   The name and signature of the applicant.
         b.   The address to be supplied by water service.
         c.   The prior address of the prospective water user.
         d.   The desired date for commencement of water service.
      2.   The application and agreement form shall also contain the following:
Written acknowledgment by the prospective water user that as the water user, he
or she is responsible for the timely and complete payment of all water charges
and all installments and surcharges arising from water service supplied to the
address identified in the application and agreement form.
   B.   Notice Of Acceptance Or Denial Of Service: The utility shall mail to
the applicant a notice stating whether water service shall be supplied to the
address requested. If water service shall be supplied, notice shall state the
date of its commencement. If utility service shall not be supplied, the notice
shall state the reasons why service shall not be supplied.
   C.   Grounds For Denial Of Service: Water service shall not be supplied to
any prospective water user if said water user has any outstanding and unpaid
water charges and/or installments and surcharges arising from prior water
service to this prospective water user and/or has not entered into an agreement
with the utility to pay past due amounts. (Ord. 14-09, 11-3-2014)
   D.   Connection Fee:
      1.   A water hookup fee of eight hundred fifty dollars ($850.00) shall be
paid to the Village at the time of application for service. (Ord. 94-4, 6-20-
1994, eff. 8-1-1994; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection
of Village water shall be borne by the property owner. The property owner shall
indemnify the Village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be caused by the installation of the water service.
      3.   All buildings with more than one unit shall have a separate shutoff
valve for each unit. (Ord. 94-4, 6-20-1994, eff. 8-1-1994)
      4.   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
subsection D shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 94-4,
6-20-1994, eff. 8-1-1994; Ord. 17-04, 9-18-2017; amd. 2019 Code)
8-1-3: WATER METERS:
   A.   Location Of Meters:
      1.   The owner and/or customer will provide at his/her expense a clean,
dry, safe interior place, not subject to excessive variation in temperature, so
that the water meter will be properly protected from freezing and other
hazards, so located as to control the entire water supply, and as to be easily
accessible for installation, maintenance, reading, and disconnection.
      2.   Acceptable meter locations, so long as they meet the preceding
requirements, include basement, utility room, furnace room, meter room, garage,
crawl space, and closet. Unacceptable locations include under lavatory or
kitchen sink. Meter boxes are acceptable only for mobile homes without
permanent foundations, buildings without heat, existing buildings that did not
have water service and do not have an adequate location for a water meter, and
lawn or garden watering systems.
      3.   One water service connection shall be supplied one meter, and the
meter must be located so that access to the customer's meter is through the
customer's own premises only. One water service connection shall not supply
multiple meter installations.
      4.   The owner and/or customer must permit installation of the meter on
the interior of the premises. The meter will be located so that it is easily
accessible and as inconspicuous as possible.
   B.   Installation Of Meter And Appurtenances:
      1.   The Village will provide and install, at its expense, a suitable
meter for each customer's water service connection. The Village will determine
the size and type of meter. The meter will remain the sole property of the
Village.
      2.   The Village shall also install, at the Village's expense, a stop and
waste valve on the water service pipe at or near the influent to the meter and
another stop or waste valve on the service pipe at or near the effluent side of
the meter. A backflow prevention device at the option of the Village may be
required at the Village's expense. If so required, it will be inserted at some
convenient point on the customer's plumbing to protect the meter from excess
pressure due to heating water.
   C.   Ownership And Responsibility For Meters: Meters will be owned and
maintained by the Village at the Village's expense for normal maintenance
requirements. Repair of damage due to freezing, hot water, or external causes
which could have been prevented by ordinary precautions on the part of the
customer and repair of any damage caused by the customer, will be paid for by
the customer. The amount charged for repair will be the actual cost of
maintenance and labor including removing, testing, and overhead expenses.
   D.   Inaccurate Meters; Testing:
      1.   A water meter will not be placed in service if it registers more
than 101.5 percent or less than 98.5 percent of the water passing through at
intermediate and maximum rates.
      2.   The Village reserves the right to remove and test any meter at any
time and to install another meter in the place of the one removed. When a meter
is removed for a test at the request of a customer, the Village may reinstall
the same meter where it tests in accordance with subsection D1 of this section.
(Ord. 17-04, 9-18-2017)
8-1-4: WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND COST:
   A.   All water service installation shall follow the Illinois State Plumbing
Code.
   B.   A water hookup fee of eight hundred fifty dollars ($850.00) will
provide a buffalo box and connections to the water main.
   C.   The customer will pay for the connection from the buffalo box to the
premises to be served.
   D.   The customer is thereafter responsible for maintenance of service from
the premises to the buffalo box.
   E.   The Village is responsible for maintenance of service from the main to
the buffalo box, including the buffalo box. (Ord. 17-04, 9-18-2017)
8-1-5: RATES AND CHARGES:
8-1-5-1: WATER BILL COLLECTOR:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of
Water Bill Collector who shall be appointed by the Village President, with the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 6.201)
   B.   Bond: The Water Bill Collector shall give bond in such sum as may be
required by the Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 6.203)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   Collect Water Service Monies: The Water Bill Collector shall collect
monies paid by residents for water service and issue receipts therefor. (1990
Code § 6.202)
      2.   Deposit Of Funds: The Water Bill Collector shall deposit the Village
funds in such depositories as may be selected from time to time as is provided
by statute and shall keep the Village monies separate and distinct from his/her
own and shall not intermingle his/her own monies therewith or make private or
personal use of the Village funds. (1990 Code § 6.204)
      3.   Records Kept: The Water Bill Collector shall keep such records
showing all monies received, the source from which received and the purpose for
which paid out, and shall keep a record which shows at all times the financial
status of the Village. (1990 Code § 6.205)
      4.   Accounting: The Water Bill Collector shall keep such books and
accounts as may be required by the Village Board of Trustees and shall keep
them in the manner required by law. (1990 Code § 6.206)
      5.   Reports Required:
         a.   Monthly Reports: The Water Bill Collector shall make monthly
reports to the Village Board of Trustees showing the state of the finances of
the Village and the amounts received and spent during the month, which reports
shall be filed.
         b.   Annual Report: The Water Bill Collector shall make an annual
report at the close of the fiscal year with the total amount of all receipts
and expenditures of the Village and transactions during the preceding year.
(1990 Code § 6.207)
8-1-5-2: USER RATES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Users Inside Village Limits:
      1.   Residential Users: The rate for Municipal water usage within the
Municipal boundaries of the Village is twelve dollars and thrity five cents
($12.35) for the first two thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water used each
month by residential users and one dollar forty cents ($1.40) for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water used in excess of the first two
thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water used each month.
      2.   Commercial/Industrial Users: The rate for Municipal water usage
within the Municipal boundaries of the Village is twelve dollars and thirty
five cents ($12.35) for the first two thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water
used each month by commercial/industrial users and one dollar forty cents
($1.40) for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water used in excess
of the first two thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water used each month.
   B.   Users Outside Village Limits:
      1.   Residential Users: The rate for Municipal water usage outside of the
Municipal boundaries of the Village is twelve dollars thirty five cents
($12.35) for the first two thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water used each
month by residential users and one dollar eighty five cents ($1.85) for each
one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water used in excess of the first two
thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water used each month.
      2.   Commercial Users: The rate for Municipal water usage outside the
Municipal boundaries of the Village is twelve dollars thirty five cents
($12.35) for the first two thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water used each
month by commercial users and one dollar eighty five cents ($1.85) for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water used in excess of the first two
thousand (2,000) gallons of metered water used each month.
   C.   Operation, Maintenance And Repair: The rate for Municipal operations,
maintenance and repair (OM&R) is four dollars ($4.00) per month for each
customer within the Municipal boundaries of the Village. (Ord. 14-05, 4-7-2014;
amd. Ord. 21-04, 6-28-2021)
8-1-5-3: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Definitions And Rules: For the purposes of this section, the following
terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given in
this subsection. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular, and words in the singular number include the plural number; the word
"shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
    OWNER: Includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   The actual title holder of public record of the premises to which
water service is or has been rendered.
      2.   The holder or holders of the beneficial interest in any land trust
or trusts holding legal title to the premises to which water service has been
rendered.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   USER: The person or persons enjoying or having enjoyed water service.
   UTILITY: The Water Department of the Village of Chebanse.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Chebanse.
   B.   Rendition Of Bill: A water bill shall be mailed monthly to every water
user for water service supplied during the time period shown on the water bill.
Every water bill shall contain the following information:
      1.   Time period and number of days of water service covered by the water
bill.
      2.   The water charge and/or installment and surcharge due.
      3.   The date of said water bill.
      4.   The date when complete payment is due, which shall be at least
twenty five (25) days from the date of the bill itself.
      5.   In case of metered service, a notice whether the bill is based on
actual or estimated measurement of water service supplied.
      6.   Notice that failure to timely and completely pay the amount(s) shown
on the water bill shall result in termination of water service.
   C.   User Dispute:
      1.   At any time before the date of termination of water service for
nonpayment of the amount(s) shown on a water bill, a water user may dispute the
correctness of all or part of the amount(s) shown in accordance with the
provisions of this section. A water user shall not be entitled to dispute the
correctness of all or part of the amount(s) if all or part of the amount(s) was
(were) the subject of a previous dispute, and the utility had previously
determined that the basis for such past dispute was not valid.
      2.   The procedure for water user disputes shall be as follows:
         a.   Not less than seven (7) days before the date of termination, the
user shall notify the utility in writing that he or she disputes all or part of
the amount(s) shown on a water bill, stating as completely, if possible, the
basis for his or her dispute.
         b.   If the utility determines that the present dispute is untimely or
that the water user previously disputed the correctness of all or part of the
amount(s) shown, and the utility had previously determined that the basis for
such past dispute was not valid, the utility shall mail to said user a notice
stating that the present dispute is untimely or invalid. The utility shall then
proceed as if the customer had not notified the utility of the present dispute.
         c.   If the utility determines that the present dispute is not
untimely or invalid, the utility, within three (3) business days after receipt
of the water user's notice, shall arrange an informal meeting between the water
user and an official of the utility.
         d.   Based on the utility's records, the water user's allegations and
all other relevant material available to the official, the official shall
resolve the dispute, attempting to do so in a manner to satisfy both the
utility and the customer.
         e.   Within five (5) business days of the completion of the meeting,
the official shall mail to the customer a copy of the decision resolving the
dispute.
      3.   Utilization of this dispute procedure shall not relieve a water user
of his or her obligation to timely and completely pay the amount(s) shown on
the water bill and/or installments and surcharges and the undisputed portion of
the amount which is the subject of the present dispute. Failure to timely and
completely pay all such other disputed amounts and/or enter into a payment
agreement to satisfy any amounts remaining due after the utility has made a
decision on the disputed amounts, shall subject the water user to termination
of water service in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      4.   Until the date of the utility official's decision, the utility shall
not terminate the water service of said water user and shall not issue a notice
of termination to him or her solely for nonpayment of the disputed amount.
      5.   If it is determined that the water user must pay some or all of the
disputed amount, the utility shall promptly mail to, or personally serve upon,
the water user a notice of termination which shall contain the following:
         a.   The amount to be paid.
         b.   The date of the notice of termination.
         c.   The date of termination, which shall be at least fifteen (15)
days after the date of the notice of termination, provided the water user has
not entered into a payment agreement with the utility.
         d.   Notice that unless the utility receives complete payment of the
amount shown prior to the date of termination, or has entered into a payment
agreement with the water user, water service shall be terminated. (Ord. 14-09,
11-3-2014)
   D.   Termination Procedure:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions hereinafter
stated shall apply to all terminations of water service for nonpayment of water
charges and/or installments or surcharges, as well as agreements between the
water user and the utility for payment of delinquent accounts. (Ord. 14-09, 11-
3-2014; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   If, by the payment date shown on a water bill, the utility has not
received complete payment of the amount shown on the bill or the notice and/or
the water user has not entered into a payment agreement with the utility or is
otherwise not in compliance with any such payment agreement, the utility shall
mail to or personally serve upon the water user a notice of termination at
least three (3) days after the payment date. The notice of termination shall
contain the following:
         a.   The amount or amounts to be paid.
         b.   The date of the notice of termination.
         c.   The date of termination, which shall be at least fifteen (15)
days from the date of the notice of termination.
         d.   Notice that unless the utility receives complete payment of the
amount shown prior to the date of termination, or has entered into a payment
agreement with the water user, water service shall be terminated.
      3.   If, prior to the date of termination:
         a.   The utility has not received complete payment of the amount shown
on the notice of termination or has not otherwise entered into a payment
agreement with the water user, the utility shall terminate water service
provided to the user on the date of termination.
         b.   The water user has not notified in writing the utility that he or
she disputes the correctness of all or part of the amount shown on the notice
of termination, or has not otherwise entered into an agreement with the utility
for payment of past due amounts, then the utility shall terminate water service
provided to the user on the date of termination.
      4.   If the utility receives the payment of the entire amount shown on
the notice of termination prior to the date of termination, such payment shall
be considered a timely and complete payment for the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-09, 11-3-2014)
      5.   In the event of termination of water service in accordance with this
section, the Village shall assess a disconnect fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 98-04, 5-4-1998; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   Reinstatement Of Service: In the event of termination of water service
in accordance with the provisions of this section, the utility shall reinstate
water service to the water user within twenty four (24) hours of the utility's
receipt of complete payment of the amount or amounts or which nonpayment
prompted the termination. Such payment shall not be considered a timely payment
for the purposes of this chapter. A fifty dollar ($50.00) reinstatement fee
shall be charged. (Ord. 14-09, 11-3-2014; amd. 2019 Code)
   F.   Lien Provisions:
      1.   Any amount of money remaining due and owing to the utility for water
service for a period of thirty (30) days following termination of water service
shall become and constitute a lien upon the real estate to which water service
has been supplied. The Village Clerk shall file a sworn statement showing such
delinquencies in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Kankakee County or
Iroquois County, whichever the case may be, which sworn statement, when filed,
shall be deemed a notice of lien for the payment of such water service. The
sworn statement shall be entitled "Claim for Lien" which shall set forth the
following:
         a.   A description of the real estate sufficient for the
identification thereof upon and for which the water service was supplied.
         b.   The amount or amounts of money due for said water service.
         c.   The date or dates when such amount or amounts became delinquent.
      2.   If all amounts shown due remain unpaid after recording, as provided
by law, the Village may foreclose such lien in a like manner and with like
effect as in the foreclosure of mortgages upon real estate. In the alternative,
the Village may, in its discretion, file suit to collect such amounts as are
delinquent and due against the owner of the real estate or against the user of
the real estate, or both, in a civil action and shall collect, as well, all
court costs pertaining to said action, as well as reasonable attorney fees, the
same to be fixed by order of the court. (Ord. 14-09, 11-3-2014)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Cross Connections Restricted
8-1A-2: Surveys And Investigations; Recordkeeping
8-1A-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-1A-4: Mandatory Inspection
8-1A-5: Disconnection Of Service
8-1A-6: Responsibility For Cleanup
8-1A-7: Regulations
8-1A-8: Penalty
8-1A-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
Village may enter the supply or distribution system, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of Water and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency in writing prior to use or
installation. (Ord. 09-02, 6-15-2009, eff. 6-15-2009)
8-1A-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS; RECORDKEEPING:
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated as often as the Superintendent of
Water shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and
available for review as provided for by law. Surveys of the cross connection
controls shall be made at least every two (2) years. (Ord. 09-02, 6-15-2009,
eff. 6-15-2009)
8-1A-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   If the Superintendent of Water determines that a backflow prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply system for an
existing or new water customer, the Superintendent will give notice to the
water customer to install an approved backflow prevention device within such
reasonable period of time as shall be contained within the notice. The water
customer shall, at the customer's own expense, install such an approved device
at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code,
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations,
and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon
installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations. Approved backflow
prevention devices shall be as determined by the Superintendent of Water.
   B.   Only cross connection control devices approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, American Waterworks Association, American Society of Sanitary
Engineers or American National Standards Institute shall be installed or used.
   C.   All installed devices must be maintained as recommended by the
manufacturer's maintenance manual. All such manuals must be available at the
site of the cross connection control device.
   D.   All cross connection control devices must be inspected annually by a
person approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 09-02,
6-15-2009, eff. 6-15-2009; amd. 2019 Code)
8-1A-4: MANDATORY INSPECTION:
The Superintendent of Water or his/her designated inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the Village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the
Superintendent of Water or an authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the Village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which
the Superintendent may request regarding the piping system or systems of water
use on such property. The refusal of such information when demanded shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this
article. (Ord. 09-02, 6-15-2009, eff. 6-15-2009)
8-1A-5: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   The Superintendent of Water is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof and opportunity
for a hearing before the Superintendent, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter, or rules
promulgated pursuant hereto, is reasonably believed to exist, and to take such
other precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this article, and
until a reconnection fee, in an amount set from time to time but not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00), is paid to the Village.
   B.   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Water reasonably believes that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection and opportunity
for a hearing.
   C.   The Village and its agents shall not be liable to any person for any
injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of any
customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of this section. (Ord. 09-
02, 6-15-2009, eff. 6-15-2009)
8-1A-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP:
The consumer responsible for backsiphoned or backpressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear
the cost of cleanup and/or repair of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 09-
02, 6-15-2009, eff. 6-15-2009)
8-1A-7: REGULATIONS:
The Superintendent of Water may make regulations regarding implementation and
enforcement of this article. The provisions of this article and any regulations
adopted shall constitute a term and condition of receiving water from the
Village potable water system. (Ord. 09-02, 6-15-2009, eff. 6-15-2009)
8-1A-8: PENALTY:
Violation of this article, or any rule promulgated pursuant hereto, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord.
09-02, 6-15-2009, eff. 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Public Works Department
8-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-2-4: Mandatory Sewer Connection Permit
8-2-5: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-6: Use Of The Public Sewer System
8-2-6-1: Discharges Into System
8-2-6-2: Interceptors
8-2-6-3: Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalization
8-2-6-4: Control Manhole
8-2-6-5: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-2-6-6: Special Agreements
8-2-7: Extension Of Mains
8-2-8: Responsibilities Of Village And Users
8-2-9: Authority To Refuse New Services
8-2-10: Tampering With, Damage To System
8-2-11: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-12: Violations; Penalties
8-2-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Superintendent Of Public Works:
      1.   Appointment: A General Superintendent of Public Works (the
waterworks and sewage system) shall be appointed by the Village President, with
the approval of the Village Board of Trustees expressed by ordinance. It being
hereby determined and declared that the appointment of any Superintendent
thereof is necessary and expedient for the best interest of the Village.
      2.   Qualifications; Bond: The Superintendent of Public Works shall
qualify for office in the same manner as any elected official of the Village
and shall post such bond in such amount as may be determined by the Village
President.
   B.   Department Employees: All necessary employees of the Public Works
Department and each division thereof shall likewise be approved by the Village
President, with the approval of the Village Board of Trustees expressed by
ordinance. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the Village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the Village any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge To Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage within the Village
territorial corporate boundaries. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all dwellings,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the Village and abutting on any street, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located
any public sanitary sewer of the Village, is hereby required at his expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so;
provided, that said public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') (30.5 m) of
the property line. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
8-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of section
8-2-7 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before the commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the Superintendent.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the Village, (appendix 2 on file in the Village)
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Superintendent. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid to the Village at the time the application
is filed. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Installation And Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent or the Village Engineer. He shall be allowed
to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent or the Village
Engineer when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty
four (24) hours of the receipt of written notice by the Village Engineer and
Superintendent.
   D.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of
Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of lot is less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet (929 sq
m). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
   E.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
Village.
   F.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section
8-2-7 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within one hundred twenty (120) days and the private
sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean sand,
bankrun gravel or dirt. The owner shall be solely responsible for payment of
costs incurred by virtue of this subsection F2. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd.
2019 Code)
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-4: MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT:
No connection to the Village sewer main or lateral lines may be contracted or
otherwise accomplished without issuance of a sewer connection permit prior to
the beginning of such work. Said permits shall be issued under such reasonable
terms and conditions as may be approved from time to time, including
application forms which may have bond and insurance requirements. Any
connection to the Village sewer mains and/or lateral lines without prior
issuance of a sewer connection permit shall be punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day the unpermitted connection(s) to
the sewer system remains attached after a notice of disconnect has been issued
and posted by the Village Public Works personnel. Notice of disconnection shall
be accomplished by posting written notice of disconnection upon the premises
served by an unpermitted connection. The Village Public Works Department shall
issue such notice of disconnection as soon as is practicable after the Village
gains knowledge of an unpermitted sewer connection. (Ord. 07-01, 2-5-2007; amd.
2019 Code)
8-2-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent or Engineer.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential wastewater service, and b) for
commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater service. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the Village, (appendix 2 on file in the Village). The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent or
Engineer. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
shall be paid to the Village at the time the application is filed. (Ord. 05-05,
6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
      4.   Conditions Of Permit:
         a.   The commercial, institutional or governmental users, as a
condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
         b.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer
connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream
sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available, or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended
to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Existing Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and testing by the
Superintendent or Engineer, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Installation And Connection Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with subsection E2 of this section and discharged to the
building sewer.
      3.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the appropriate specifications of the American
Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of
Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent or Engineer before installation. (Ord. 05-05, 6-
20-2005)
      4.   All soil or waste pipes shall be connected to the sanitary sewer, if
a sanitary sewer is laid within the building and if the connection is made
above the ground or floor, by a suitable metal/plastic connection which shall
make an airtight and watertight joint without the use of cement, mortar, putty
or other material and which can and shall be in view at the time of the final
inspection. (1990 Code § 14.302; amd. 2019 Code)
      5.   Outside the building and underground, the connection between the
soil or waste pipe and the sewer shall be thoroughly made with slip type joints
with six inch (6") tile. A cleanout trap shall be installed in the sewer at the
head of line on the outside of the building. (1990 Code § 14.303; amd. 2019
Code)
      6.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Village.
   E.   Discharges Into System:
      1.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      2.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with Federal Standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent State and local standards.
   F.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Superintendent or Engineer when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent, Engineer, or his representative.
   G.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the Village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-6: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM:
8-2-6-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater, Surface Waters, Etc.:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent or Engineer. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent
or Engineer, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair, fleshings
and entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or
ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Superintendent or Engineer, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent or Engineer will give consideration to such factors
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/L) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0°C and 65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent or Engineer.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent or Engineer for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent or Engineer as necessary, after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent or
Engineer in compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
         h.   Any wastes or water having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligram
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the Superintendent or
Engineer in compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligram per liter at any time
except as permitted by the Superintendent or Engineer in compliance with
applicable State and Federal regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs". (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   a. If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the
Superintendent or Engineer, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent or Engineer
may:
            (1)   Reject the wastes;
            (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers;
            (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
and/or
            (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the
provisions of section
8-2-6-6 of this section
8-2-6.
         b.   If the Superintendent or Engineer permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent or
Engineer and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances,
and laws. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-6-2: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent or Engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent or Engineer, and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-6-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-6-4: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when required
by the Superintendent or Engineer, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent or Engineer. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his
expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-6-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   1. The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
      2.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the Village, but no less than
once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the Federal, State,
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the Village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the Village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the Village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the Village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   B.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-6-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
8-2-6 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the Village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the Village for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, in accordance with article A of this chapter, by
the industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance with Federal
and State guidelines for the user charge system. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-7: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   The Village Board of Trustees shall first determine if any extension of
a sanitary sewer main is economically feasible based on estimated cost of the
extension and the number of existing potential users that will use the sewer
system along the extension. If the extension is economically feasible, then the
Village may install and pay the cost of the extension at the discretion of the
Village Board of Trustees. If the Village elects not to pay the cost of
extending the sanitary sewer main, then the person or persons desiring sewage
service shall install the extension at their own personal expense upon a
written consent by the Board of Trustees and upon such terms as the Board of
Trustees may determine or may set forth in any ordinance or resolution. The
Village shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area, such as a
subdivision being developed, unless there is sufficient existing residences or
businesses to make the extension economically feasible.
   B.   The following steps must be completed prior to any sewer expansion:
      1.   The Village must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions. Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
      2.   Ownership, right-of-way, and title must be conveyed to the Village
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the Village. The Village will
maintain the sanitary sewer mains after construction in accordance with section
8-2-8 of this chapter.
      3.   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the Board of
Trustees, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
      4.   The applicant must pay all connection fees and all costs related to
any extension. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-8: RESPONSIBILITIES OF VILLAGE AND USERS:
The Village shall install and maintain the sewer mains and provide major repair
of the service lines to the property line or a mutually agreed upon point,
subject to the determination of the Village Board of Trustees that a particular
service is economically feasible to install. The user shall be responsible for
installing the user's own sewer line to the property line. The user shall be
responsible for the maintenance of the user's own sewer line and normal
maintenance of the sewer line from the property line to the sewer main. The
Village shall be responsible for any street opening and pavement replacement
required as determined by the Village Board of Trustees. The user shall give
such easements and rights-of-way as necessary to the Village and shall allow
access for the purposes of construction, repair, maintenance, meter reading,
relocation or expansion of the sewer system. The necessity shall be determined
by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-9: AUTHORITY TO REFUSE NEW SERVICES:
The Village may at any time refuse additional or new sewer service to any
applicant if, in the judgment of the Village Board of Trustees, the capacity of
the system will not permit such use or that it is economically unfeasible to
provide such service. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-10: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and fined seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per occurrence. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2-11: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The Superintendent, Engineer, and other duly authorized employees of
the Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent, Engineer, or his representative
shall have authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the Superintendent, Engineer, or duly
authorized employees of the Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the Village employees, and the
Village shall indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as required in
subsection 8-2-6-5A of this chapter. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
   C.   The Superintendent, Engineer, and other duly authorized employees of
the Village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the Village holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated agreement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord.
05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
8-2-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
8-2-10 of this chapter, shall be served by the Village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   The Village may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of
any violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
      2.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-
2005; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the Village by reasons of such violation in
treble the amount of such damages. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
ARTICLE A. WASTEWATER FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Connection Fees
8-2A-2: Tile Fees
8-2A-3: Basis For Wastewater Service Charge
8-2A-4: Annual Review Of Adequacy Of Wastewater Service Charge
8-2A-5: Measurement Of Flow
8-2A-6: Rates And Charges Established
8-2A-7: Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge
8-2A-8: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-2A-9: Revenues
8-2A-10: Accounting
8-2A-11: Notice Of Rates
8-2A-12: Appeals
8-2A-13: Access To Records
8-2A-14: Penalty
8-2A-1: CONNECTION FEES:
The connection fee for each private building sewer line connection to the
Village sewer main line and lateral lines after December 31, 2006, not
previously set forth on the sewer extension plans for the Village, is and shall
be thereafter six hundred dollars ($600.00) per connection. The connection fee
as set forth herein shall increase five percent (5%) per year for a period of
twenty (20) years. The sewer connection fee established hereby is intended to
apply to all new construction within the Village initiated after December 31,
2006, and all properties annexed after December 31, 2006. (Ord. 06-17, 9-18-
2006)
8-2A-2: TILE FEES:
For the Village residents, the monthly tile fee (stormwater drainage) is one
dollar ($1.00). (Ord. 14-04, 4-7-2014; amd. 2019 Code)
8-2A-3: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the Village shall consist of basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement and applicable surcharges composed
of a debt service charge. The debt service charge is computed by apportioning
the annual debt service on a cost per one thousand (1,000) gallons basis. (Ord.
05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
   A.   Basic User Charge:
      1.   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/L).
      2.   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         b.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         c.   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by volume,
suspended solids and BOD.
         d.   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, SS and BOD.
         e.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         f.   Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per
milligram per liter in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   B.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 milligrams per liter) and SS
(250 milligrams per liter). The surcharge will be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the
two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L) and two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/L) concentration for BOD and SS, respectively. Subsection 8-
2A-6C2 of this article specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge. (Ord.
05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2A-4: ANNUAL REVIEW OF ADEQUACY OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not less often
than annually, by certified public accountants for the Village in their annual
audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in operation and maintenance costs including replacement
costs. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
8-2A-5: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
   A.   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
one hundred (100) gallons.
   B.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his water from sources other than public waterworks system, all
or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, a water meter of a type approved by the
Superintendent or Engineer for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   C.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the Superintendent or Engineer if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
   D.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Superintendent or Engineer. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2A-6: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Basic User Rate:
      1.   Residential:
         a.   Metered Users: A minimum charge of twelve dollars and forty seven
cents ($12.47) per month shall be applied to all residential users for water
consumption up to the first one thousand (1,000) gallons per month. A basic
user rate of ten dollars and twenty two cents ($10.22) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons per month shall be applied to all residential users for water
consumption in excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons per month.
Charges to be effective July 1, 2021.
         b.   Nonmetered Users: All nonmetered residential users of the
wastewater facilities shall pay a minimum flat rate charge per month adequate
to cover the costs of OM&R, the minimum service charge and the basic user rate
which shall be sixteen dollars twenty five cents ($16.25). The flat rate charge
will allow a maximum of six thousand (6,000) gallons per month. In the event
use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the Superintendent to be in
excess of six thousand (6,000) gallons per month, the Superintendent or
Engineer may require a flat rate user to install metering devices on the water
supply or sewer main to measure the amount of service supplied.
      2.   Commercial: A minimum charge of twelve dollars and forty seven cents
($12.47) per month shall be applied to all commercial users for water
consumption up to the first one thousand (1,000) gallons per month. A basic
user rate of ten dollars and twenty two cents ($10.22) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons shall be applied to all commercial users for water consumption in
excess of the first one thousand (1,000) gallons per month. All commercial
users will be metered, and no flat rate will be charged. These charges are
effective July 1, 2021.
   B.   Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge of sixty five dollars eighty
four cents ($65.84) per month to each user of the wastewater facility of the
Village is hereby established as a portion of the basic user rate. This charge
is to be effective May 1, 2016.
   C.   Surcharge Rates:
      1.   The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as follows:
         a.   $0.0050 per one thousand (1,000) gallons of wastewater per
milligram per liter of BOD5 above two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L).
         b.   $0.0040 per one thousand (1,000) gallons of wastewater per
milligram per liter of SS above two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/
L).
      2.   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent or Engineer and shall be binding
as a basis for surcharges.
   D.   Operation, Maintenance And Replacement Cost: The OM&R cost will be a
flat rate of six dollars ($6.00) per month per household, and for businesses,
seven dollars ($7.00) per month, effective July 1, 2021.
   E.   Basic User Interim Fees:
      1.   The interim fee for each private building service sewer line for
usage of the Village sewer main line and/or lateral lines to the Village is and
shall be:
         a.   Seventy five dollars ($75.00) per month per service when such
service is to a structure existing within the Village territorial jurisdiction;
and
         b.   One hundred ten dollars ($110.00) per month per service when such
service is to a structure existing outside the Village territorial
jurisdiction.
      2.   The interim rate(s) shall begin on the date the building's sewer is
attached to the Village's lateral or main sewer line and becomes operational as
part and parcel of the Village sewer system. All charges shall be invoiced on a
pro rated, per diem basis for any part of a month in which a sewer system user
has been attached to the Village sewer system. The provisions of this
subsection shall cease to be in effect for each of the Village sewer users when
water meters are installed at said user's building to specifically quantify the
water usage and discharge. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. Ord. 07-13, 10-15-2007;
Ord. 12-04, 4-2-2012; Ord. 16-01, 4-18-2016; 2019 Code; Ord. 21-05, 6-28-2021)
8-2A-7: COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
      CW = CM + (Vu-X)CU + CS
 
Where:
 CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period.
 CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (subsection 8-
       2A-6D of this article).
 Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period.
 X  = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (subsection 8-
       2A-6A of this article).
 CU = Basic user rate for debt service and OM&R (subsections 8-2A-6A and B of
       this article).
 CS = Amount of surcharge (subsection 8-2A-6C of this article).
 
(Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
8-2A-8: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills; Payment Date; Late Payment Penalty: Rates or
charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to
the premises by the Village only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the Village. Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the
Village Clerk on the first day of the month succeeding the period for which the
service is billed. All sewer bills are due and payable ten (10) days after
being sent out. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to all bills not
paid by the fifteenth day after they have been rendered.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Service: If the charges for such services are not
paid within thirty (30) days after the rendition of the bill for such services,
such services shall be discontinued without further notice and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
   C.   Lien Provisions:
      1.   Lien Claim: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for
sixty (60) days after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk shall file with
the Recorder of Deeds of Iroquois or Kankakee County a statement of lien claim.
This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the
Village Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address is known to the Clerk, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period forty five (45) days after it has been rendered. The
failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien or to mail such notice or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid bills. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the Village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the Village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid ninety (90) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-
2005)
8-2A-9: REVENUES:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the Village Clerk separate and apart
from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
Village and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the Village Clerk not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the "Sewerage Fund of the Village". The Clerk shall
administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute in the
"Revised Cities and Villages Act", effective January, 1942. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-
2005)
8-2A-10: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   System Of Accounts: The Village Clerk shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
   B.   Annual Audit Report: In addition to the customary operating statements,
the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses
of the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that
sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and OM&R required to
be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following: (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons pumped to the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2A-11: NOTICE OF RATES:
The users of the wastewater treatment services will be notified annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance and replacement. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
8-2A-12: APPEALS:
The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in sections
8-2A-6 and
8-2A-7 of this article shall be made available to a user within ten (10) days
of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used
or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the Village within twenty
(20) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2A-13: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the Village which are applicable to the
Village system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any State
grant. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005)
8-2A-14: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article shall
be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 05-05, 6-20-2005; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Adoption Of Plan Of Operation And Governance
8-3-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE:
The Village Plan of Operation and Governance regarding electrical service is on
file in the Village as an exhibit and hereby adopted. (Ord. 12-13, 11-19-2012)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Inspector
9-1-2: Adoption Of Building Regulations
9-1-3: Permit Requirements
9-1-4: Dangerous Conditions
9-1-5: Stop Work Orders
9-1-6: Arbitration And Appeals
9-1-7: Notice For Inspection; Certificate Issued
9-1-8: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-1-9: Mobile Homes As Dwellings
9-1-10: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-1-11: Administration And Enforcement
9-1-12: Interpretation
9-1-13: Penalty
9-1-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of building
inspector. (1990 Code § 14.102)
   B.   Appointment: The building inspector shall be appointed by the Village
President, by and with the consent of the Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code
§ 14.114)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce all
ordinances relating to the erection, construction, alteration, repair, and the
safe removal of all buildings. (1990 Code §§ 14.102, 14.114; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   The building inspector shall inspect and examine all plans for
buildings and repairs. (1990 Code § 14.114)
      3.   The building inspector shall issue permits, collect fees, make all
inspections for buildings, make open wall inspections for wiring, plumbing,
etc., and make final inspections including cleanup, road repair, etc. (1990
Code § 14.115; amd. 2019 Code)
   D.   Compensation: The salary of the building inspector shall be in such
amount as shall be set by the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1990
Code § 14.102; amd. 2019 Code)
9-1-2: ADOPTION OF BUILDING REGULATIONS:
The regulations contained in the Village Building Code are hereby adopted as
the regulations governing the construction of buildings and other structures in
the Village, and it shall be unlawful to erect or construct any building or
structure in the Village in violation of, or without complying with, the
appropriate provisions of such regulations. Copies of such code shall be kept
on file in the Village Clerk's Office for inspection and three (3) copies shall
be furnished to the building inspector. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
The term "building official", as used in the Village Building Code, shall mean
the building inspector or any other officer of the Village designated by the
Village Board of Trustees having the duty to enforce the Village building
regulations. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003)
9-1-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct any building or
structure in the Village where the cost of such construction exceeds one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or to alter or remodel any building or structure so
as to change the bearing walls, beams, supports or the roof thereof without
having first secured a permit therefor, or in violation of the terms of such
permit, or in violation of the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003;
amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit: Before proceeding with the erection,
enlargement, alteration or repair of any building within the corporate limits
of the Village, an application shall be first obtained from the building
inspector on a blank form to be furnished for that purpose. Every such
application for a permit shall describe the land upon which the proposed
building or work is to be done by some description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work, shall show the proposed
use or occupancy of all parts of the building and such other information as the
building inspector may require. (1990 Code § 14.112)
   C.   Permit Fees: The fees for building permits are as follows:
Utility shed                          $ 25.00
Home improvement internal (to rezone) 30.00
Yard fence:
 1/2 lot                             35.00
 Full lot                            50.00
Deck                                  30.00
Pool                                  30.00
Garage                                65.00
Garage addition                       35.00
Home addition                         75.00
Garage for a business                 50.00
Garage addition for a business        90.00
Business addition                     100.00
New home construction                 150.00
New business construction             200.00
Apartments:
 Duplex                              200.00
 Triplex                             250.00
 Quadraplex                          300.00
 
If a resident is putting in a pool with a thirty dollar ($30.00) permit fee and
a deck is added at the same time, the deck fee shall be at two-thirds (2/3) the
cost of the original permit fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) which shall be
twenty dollars ($20.00) for a total of fifty dollars ($50.00). If a fence is
also added, it shall be at half the cost unless the fence is for the yard as
well as for safety, then it shall also be two- thirds (2/3) the cost. (Ord. 03-
04, 4-7-2003)
   D.   Required Plans:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
structure, or for remodeling or repairing affecting bearing walls, roof other
than resurfacing, or chimneys, or for moving a building onto a premises in the
Village unless the application is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the
proposed location showing lot boundaries and by plans and specifications
showing the work to be done. Such plans shall bear the seal or signature of a
licensed architect. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to erase, alter or modify any lines, figures or
coloring contained upon such drawings or specifications so certified by the
building inspector (unless the engineer needs to be involved) unless
supplemented plans are filed therewith for reference. (1990 Code § 14.118; amd.
2019 Code)
   E.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: When application for permit made by the
owner or agent has been made with the building inspector, the building
inspector shall issue a permit after the payment of fees and shall place such
application on file; provided, that no permit shall be issued to any person,
firm or corporation to erect, construct, add to, enlarge, improve, alter,
convert, or extend any building or structure where the proposed use thereof is
inconsistent with, contrary to, or violation of any ordinance of the Village of
Chebanse or law of the State of Illinois. (1990 Code § 14.116)
   F.   Invalidity Of Permit: No permit shall be valid unless work is commenced
within six (6) months from the date of its issuance. (1990 Code § 14.125)
   G.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: Any permit issued hereunder may be
suspended or revoked by the Village President, upon the recommendation of the
building inspector, for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(1990 Code § 14.127)
9-1-4: DANGEROUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   Generally: It shall be the duty of the building inspector, when any
citizen represents that ashes or combustible materials are kept in any place in
the Village in an unsafe manner, or that doors, stairways, corridors, exits or
fire escapes in any factory, workshop or other public places are insufficient
for the escape of employees or persons in case of fire, panic or accident, or
do not comply with the provisions of law, or that any part of any building in
the Village is in an unsafe or dangerous condition, to make or cause to be made
an examination of such places or buildings and shall have access for such
purposes, and if such representations are found to be true, the inspector shall
give notice in writing to the owner, occupant or person in possession of such
building to make such changes, alterations or repairs as public safety or the
ordinances of the Village may require. The Village President and Board of
Trustees shall have full power to pass upon any question arising under the
provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code § 14.106)
   B.   Dangerous Buildings: The Village may demolish, repair, enclose or
remedy any building or property in accordance with section 11-31-1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, the provisions of which are incorporated within this
section as though fully stated herein. (2019 Code)
   C.   Urgent Situations: Whenever the decision of the building inspector upon
the safety of any building is made in a case so urgent that failure to carry
out the orders to demolish or strengthen the building or part thereof may
endanger life and limb, the decision and order of the building inspector shall
be absolute and final. (1990 Code § 14.111)
   D.   Failure To Comply: Whenever any owner, agent or occupant shall neglect
or refuse to comply with any order made under the provisions of this section
within the time specified in the order, said owner, agent or occupant shall be
subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every day such violation of any
such order shall continue after the expiration of the time specified in the
order. (1990 Code § 14.111; amd. 2019 Code)
9-1-5: STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A.   Whenever any work is being done in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or in variance with the terms of any permit issued for such work, the
building inspector may order all work on the job stopped until and unless all
violations or variances are eliminated and any work or installation made under
the provisions hereof is corrected. Such stop order, if oral, shall be followed
by a written stop order within twenty four (24) hours (excluding Saturdays,
Sundays or holidays).
   B.   It shall be unlawful to do or perform any work in violation of such
stop order, except as may be necessary to prevent injury or damage to persons
or property. Such stop order may be revoked by the building inspector, the
Village President or the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003)
   C.   When such work has been stopped by order of the inspector, it shall not
be resumed until the inspector shall be satisfied that adequate precautions
have been taken for the protection of life and property and that the work will
be done in conformity with the ordinances of the Village. (1990 Code § 14.108)
9-1-6: ARBITRATION AND APPEALS:
   A.   In cases where discretionary power to estimate damage to buildings is
given to the building inspector, also in questions relating to the security or
insecurity of any building or parts thereof, and in all cases where
discretionary powers are, by ordinance, given to the building inspector, an
appeal to arbitration shall be allowed to persons believing themselves injured
or wronged by the decisions thereof. Any person wishing to make such appeal
shall do so within five (5) days after written notice of the decision or order
of the building inspector has been given. An appeal made later shall not
entitle the appellant to an arbitration. The request for arbitration shall be
in writing and shall state the object of the proposed arbitration and the name
of the person who is to represent the person as arbitrator. (1990 Code §
14.109)
   B.   The building inspector shall immediately notify the Village President
and Board of Trustees upon receiving notice of appeal for arbitration. The
Village President and Board of Trustees shall appoint an arbitrator to
represent the Village, and the two (2) arbitrators shall appoint a third. The
decision of any two (2) of the three (3) shall be final and binding upon the
appellant as well as upon the Village. The arbitrators shall be placed under
oath and shall have the power to call witnesses and place them under oath, and
their decisions or awards shall be rendered in writing both to the Village
President and Village Board of Trustees and to the appellant. (1990 Code §
14.110)
9-1-7: NOTICE FOR INSPECTION; CERTIFICATE ISSUED:
It shall be the duty of the owner or agent, when the building is in the course
of construction, to notify the building inspector when the building is or will
be ready for lathing or installation of wallboard, and the inspector shall,
within three (3) days of the time specified, cause an inspection to be made. If
the construction is found to be in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, the building inspector shall issue a certificate to that effect. (1990
Code § 14.120)
9-1-8: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered or
repaired after the effective date hereof shall be issued unless such building
or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003)
9-1-9: MOBILE HOMES AS DWELLINGS:
The use of mobile homes for the purpose of occupancy as a dwelling or for
business purposes is hereby prohibited, except in a mobile home park duly
licensed by the State of Illinois or in a location approved by a majority vote
of the Village Board of Trustees. (1990 Code § 14.104; amd. 2019 Code)
9-1-10: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Sidewalks: The use of any part of the sidewalk for steps or for open
areas is prohibited. (1990 Code § 14.122)
   B.   Chimneys And Flues:
      1.   No joists or girders shall rest or be supported on walls of any
chimney or flue, and the framing around same of all kinds shall be so
constructed that in no case will any joists or timbers, etc., be placed nearer
than one inch (1") from the outside face of walls of flues. (1990 Code §
14.123)
      2.   a. Wherever smoke flues six inches (6") or less in diameter pass
through a wood or a plastered stud partition, they shall be surrounded by a
ventilated thimble of metal or incombustible material.
         b.   Where a smoke flue of greater diameter than six inches (6")
passes through a wood or plastered partition, it shall be surrounded by a body
of brick, tile, porous terra cotta or other incombustible materials. (1990 Code
§ 14.124)
   C.   Concrete Slab Required For Unattached Buildings: Any outbuilding less
than one hundred fifty (150) square feet or less than ten feet by fifteen feet
(10' x 15') in size only requires three inches (3") of gravel base and
skirting, and any larger outbuilding constructed within the Village shall have
not less than a four inch (4") reinforced concrete slab with a rat barrier
twelve inches (12") down and twelve inches (12") beyond said slab. (Ord. 13-09,
12-2-2013, eff. 12-2-2013)
9-1-11: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The building inspector shall have the power and duty to enforce the provisions
of this title, and all fees provided herein shall be paid to the Village Clerk.
All permits shall be issued by the building inspector. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003;
amd. 2019 Code)
9-1-12: INTERPRETATION:
Whenever in the building regulations, it is provided that anything must be done
to the approval of or subject to the direction of the building inspector or any
other officer of the Village, this shall be construed to give officer only the
discretion of determining whether there has been compliance with the rules and
standards established by ordinance, and no such provision shall be construed as
giving any officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations or
standards shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance,
or to enforce ordinance provisions in any arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Ord. 03-10, 9-15-2003)
9-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter or
doing any work not authorized by this chapter shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 03-10, 9-15-
2003; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING OPERATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Use Of Streets
9-2-2: Obstruction Or Removal Of Sidewalks
9-2-3: Safeguards
9-2-4: Prohibited Hours
9-2-1: USE OF STREETS:
The use of streets for the storage of materials in the process of construction
or alteration of a building or structure may be granted when the same will not
unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the usable width of the
roadway to less than eighteen feet (18'). No portion of the street, other than
that directly abutting on the premises on which work is being done, shall be
used, except with the consent of the owner or occupant of the premises abutting
on such portion. Any person seeking to make such use of the street shall file
an application for a permit therefor with the building inspector, together with
a bond with sureties to be approved by the Village Board of Trustees to
indemnify the Village for any loss or damage which may be incurred by such
occupation. (1990 Code § 14.201)
9-2-2: OBSTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF SIDEWALKS:
No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the course of building construction or
alteration without a special permit from the building inspector, and whenever
removal of a sidewalk is required in such work, a special permit from the
building inspector shall be obtained. (1990 Code § 14.203)
9-2-3: SAFEGUARDS:
It shall be the duty of the person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation doing any construction, altering or wrecking work in the Village to
do the same with proper care for the safety of persons and property. Warnings,
barricades and lights shall be maintained whenever necessary for the protection
of pedestrians or traffic, and temporary roofs over sidewalks shall be
constructed whenever there is danger from falling articles or materials to
pedestrians. (1990 Code § 14.204)
9-2-4: PROHIBITED HOURS:
No construction or alteration operations shall be carried on between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day if
the same are accompanied by loud noises. (1990 Code § 14.202; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Compliance With Certain Regulations
9-3-2: Inspections And Tests
9-3-1: COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN REGULATIONS:
   A.   All plumbing shall be considered an alteration as provided in chapter 1
of this title and shall be subject to any and all rules and regulations set
forth by the building inspector. (1990 Code § 14.105)
   B.   Any building being built, converted or altered, as provided in chapter
1 of this title, shall comply with all sanitary regulations set forth by the
Village building inspector. (1990 Code § 14.126)
   C.   All water and sewer connections and all plumbing fixtures installed in
buildings shall be constructed according to the Illinois State Plumbing Code.
(1990 Code § 14.121)
9-3-2: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:
In all buildings hereafter erected, both public and private, and in all
buildings already built or erected wherein any plumbing is installed or wherein
any sewer connected pipe shall be repaired or changed, except for minor
repairs, on the sewer side of the trap, the drain, the soil, rainwater and
other pipe or pipes connected directly or indirectly to any drain, soil or
waste pipe, and all traps, shall be exposed to view for inspection and test by
the building inspector and shall not be covered until such test is made. (1990
Code § 14.301)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definition Of Electrical Equipment
9-4-2: Permit And Inspection Requirements
9-4-3: Installation Of Electrical Equipment
9-4-1: DEFINITION OF ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT:
The term electrical equipment, as used in this chapter, includes, but is not
limited to, the wiring involved in the transmission of electrical current, but
expressly excludes electrical appliances and lighting switches. (1990 Code §
14.406)
9-4-2: PERMIT AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Inspection Required:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful to
install or alter the electrical equipment or cause the same installation or
alteration to be done to a building or an area adjacent thereto within the
Village without having an electrical permit therefor from the inspector for the
Village. (1990 Code § 14.402; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   No electrical permit shall be issued until the inspector for the
Village has been notified that installations or alterations of electrical
equipment are to be made, naming the person contemplating such work, the
proposed time of the commencement of such work, the location of such work, the
estimated cost of such work, along with the permit fee, if any, and express
written permission allowing the inspector to enter upon said location where
such work is contemplated at any time the inspector shall deem proper for the
purpose of inspecting the electrical work; provided, that any refusal of the
permission to enter upon said premises shall constitute a revocation of the
permit; provided further, that whenever it appears to any person contemplating
such work that the proposed time for commencement of any such work shall become
different than that to which the inspector has been notified, it shall be
necessary to notify the inspector of such different time at least three (3)
days prior to commencing the proposed work; provided further, that all notices
required in this subsection A2 shall be in writing, signed by the person
contemplating the work, unless the inspector shall, in his discretion, issue
the permit on oral notice. All proposed electrical installations or alterations
shall be in accordance with the general and specific standards and
specifications in section
9-4-3 of this chapter before such permit shall issue. (1990 Code § 14.403; amd.
2019 Code)
   B.   Permit Fees: The inspector for the Village shall charge no fee for the
permit for installation or alteration of electrical equipment where the total
cost of such installation or alteration is not more than five dollars ($5.00),
but shall charge the following amounts for the following total costs of
installation or alteration: (1990 Code § 14.404; amd. 2019 Code)
      1.   A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for installation or alteration of
electrical equipment which total cost shall exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) but
not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for installation or alteration of
electrical equipment which total cost shall exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) but not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      3.   A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for installation or alteration of
electrical equipment which total cost shall exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00).
      4.   A fee of eighty dollars ($80.00) for installation or alteration of
electrical equipment in commercial buildings. (1990 Code § 14.404)
   C.   Revocation Of Permit; Appeal:
      1.   The inspector for the Village is hereby empowered to revoke the
electrical permit of any person to whom such has been issued if and when such
person shall fail to make such electrical installation or alteration in
accordance with the general and specific standards and specifications in
section
9-4-3 of this chapter.
      2.   When the electrical permit has been revoked, either orally or in
writing, it shall be necessary for the person to appeal such revocation by
notifying the Village President in writing within ten (10) days of such
revocation. The appeal shall be heard before the Village Board of Trustees at
their next regularly scheduled meeting. The Board shall be empowered to take
testimony at such time and shall render a decision thereupon by a vote of yea
and nay. A majority vote of the Trustees present is required to reverse the
revocation of the inspector for the Village. Continuances on the hearing shall
be granted for good cause shown. (1990 Code § 14.405; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   If an appeal is not taken from the revocation or the appeal, if
taken, does not reverse the revocation, this shall have the effect of rendering
the permit issued null and void from its very inception, and the person shall
remove the electrical equipment or be in violation of this chapter and subject
to the penalties hereinafter provided. (1990 Code § 14.405)
   D.   Penalty: Any person guilty of installing or altering electrical
equipment without a permit so to do shall be fined not less than five dollars
($5.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. Each day that
said offense occurs shall be considered a separate offense. (1990 Code §
14.410)
9-4-3: INSTALLATION OF ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT:
   A.   General Standards And Specifications: All installations or alterations
of electrical equipment in any building or buildings and/or any area adjacent
thereto and adjoining thereupon shall be made and done in accordance with the
procedures, specifications, standards and materials defined and established by
the 2014 edition of the National Electrical Code which is incorporated herein
and by reference hereto made a part hereof, except where otherwise provided
hereinafter. (1990 Code § 14.407; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Specific Standards And Specifications:
      1.   All wires and apparatus installed, altered or used in buildings or
parts of buildings used as a hotel, motel, lodging house, rooming house,
clubhouse, home for the aged, home for children, jail, police station,
hospital, department store, office building, school, apartment house with three
(3) or more apartments, auditorium, place of worship, commercial building,
factory, residential basement and mobile home shall be wired in standard
conduit or metal raceway wiring. (1990 Code § 14.408; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   All residential homes shall be wired in conduit, BX, armored cable
or romex with bonding wire.
      3.   All kitchens therein shall be wired with not less than no. 12 wire.
      4.   All basements therein shall be wired in conduit wire.
      5.   No service switches, cutouts or meters shall be installed therein in
close proximity to laundry tubs, sinks, gas meters, radiators, stoves,
furnaces, plumbing fixtures or other grounded surfaces.
      6.   All washing machines, clothes dryers or deep freeze units shall have
a grounded receptacle. (1990 Code § 14.409)
CHAPTER 5
FENCES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Height In Residential Districts
9-5-2: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
9-5-3: Definition Of A Fence
9-5-4: Fence Construction And Maintenance
9-5-5: Location And Height
9-5-1: HEIGHT IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to construct any fence on an area zoned for
residential purposes only to a height greater than eight feet (8') above the
ground level. (1990 Code § 19.122)
   B.   Any person who violates this section, upon conviction, is guilty of a
petty offense, and for the first offense shall be fined not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00), and for a second or any subsequent offense(s) shall
be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-
2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
9-5-2: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed, in
whole or part, of barbed wire or with any similar materials designed to cause
injury to persons or any wire charged with electrical current anywhere within
the Village except to protect industrial property, in which case, barbed wire
must be at least six feet (6') above the sidewalk and extend inward of the
property. (1990 Code § 10.116)
   B.   Any person who violates this section, upon conviction, is guilty of a
petty offense, and for the first offense shall be fined not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00), and for a second or any subsequent offense(s) shall
be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 03-07, 7-7-
2003, eff. 7-7-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
9-5-3: DEFINITION OF A FENCE:
A structure made of approved materials enclosing or dividing a piece of land.
Approved materials include wood, vinyl, PVC, composite, aluminum, chain-link,
metal, or split rail. Non-approved materials for fencing include open wire,
fabric, or snow fencing. If a current fence does not conform to these
standards, then it must follow the building guidelines when replaced. (Ord. 23-
07, 11-20-2023)
9-5-4: FENCE CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Property owners must first obtain a building permit from the Village
before constructing a fence. All fence posts must be securely installed below
the frost-line with a minimum depth of forty two inches (42") using a concrete
mix or expanding fence post foam.
   B.   Property owner must provide a plat of survey (original or copy) that
indicates the location, height, and type of the proposed fence including any
gates, utility equipment (such as transformers), sewer manholes, etc.
   C.   Temporary/no-dig fences are only permitted as a means to temporarily
provide a safe barrier around a construction site or area that is unsafe for
human entry. No dig fences cannot be used as a means to house or temporarily
house animals. Temporary/no-dig fences will require a permit and will come with
a restriction time of no more than thirty (30) days from time that permit was
issued. Once the thirty (30) day period has been met, the temporary fence will
need to be removed. Temporary/no-dig fences around areas such as ornamental and
vegetable gardens as a means to combat animal infiltration are permitted with a
height restriction of twenty four inches (24").
   D.   A fence shall be maintained and trimmed to the maximum height as set
forth in this chapter.
   E.   Fences shall be erected so that all supporting members shall be
attached to and located within the lot line fenced. All wooden fences shall be
constructed in such a manner that the finished side faces to the exterior of
the lot fenced.
   F.   All fences shall be constructed in conformity with wind, stress,
foundational, structural, and other requirements of the building codes and
ordinances of the Village of Chebanse.
   G.   All fences shall be maintained in a good and structurally sound manner.
When a portion of a fence suffers damage or reaches a point that renders
repair, the fence shall be replaced with the same material and style as when
first installed. Temporary patches are permitted, but will need to be replaced
with a new section of fence within thirty (30) days of initial cause of damage.
If fence is in disrepair, the fence must be brought up to standards or owner
may face a fine of no less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and no more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   H.   All fences shall be of one color of wood, paint or stain, whether
solid, transparent or translucent, in a natural tone or color. Advertising,
murals, artwork and/or odd or disparate colors of such are not permitted in
residential areas or zones on the exterior faced side of any such fence.
   I.   Business or Industrial areas or zones must receive written Village
Board approval prior to applying any advertising or artwork to the fences. The
Village may require descriptive renderings prior to such approval. Temporary
advertising for help or postings to fill a employment position are allowed and
exempt from such requirements.
   J.   No gate across driveway in the front or side yard. Gate shall not swing
over public walk.
   K.   Post shall not extend beyond six inches (6") above the height of the
fence. Bottom edge of the fence to be installed no more than two inches (2")
above grade. Call J.U.L.I.E. at 1-800-892-0123 before you dig.
   L.   Chain link shall have no slats and top edge shall be folded down to
have a knuckle edge. Provide a minimum twenty-four-inch (24") clearance and
access to utility equipment on the property within easements.
   M.   Fences are not allowed on vacant properties.
   N.   Any fence found to be in violation may be declared a nuisance. (Ord.
23-07, 11-20-2023)
9-5-5: LOCATION AND HEIGHT:
   A.   Fences in areas that are zoned as commercial may be installed directly
on the property line.
   B.   Residential fences may be constructed on or inside the lot line and
shall not be closer than two feet (2') to any public right-of-way.
   C.   No private fences shall be constructed on a public street or alley.
   D.   Fences may be placed on public utility easements so long as the
structures do not interfere in any way with the existing underground, ground,
or above ground utilities. The owner shall assume the responsibility to notify
all utility companies of the intent to erect a fence upon a public utility
right of way. The Village or any utility that has authority to use such
easements shall not be liable for repair or replacement of such fences in the
event they are moved, damaged, or destroyed due to the lawful use of the
easement.
   E.   If a non-conforming fence is in disrepair or needs replaced, it must be
replaced or repaired to conforming standards herein.
   F.   Fences must be four feet (4') from the front of the house to the front
property line and must stay twelve inches (12") off the front property line.
   G.   Definitions:
 
                            For a determination of fence locations for a corner
                            lot, the street address will determine the front of
                            the home. A fence may continue into the side yard
                            of the corner lot a maximum ten feet (10') from the
                            home with a maximum height of six feet (6'). Any
                            fence located farther than ten feet (10') from the
CORNER LOT SIDE YARDS:      home into the side yard of the corner lot may be
                            installed at a four foot (4') maximum height
                            provided it is at least fifty percent (50%) open.
                            No chain-link fences will be allowed in the side
                            yard of a corner lot. No fence may be located
                            within five feet (5') of any sidewalk or located
                            closer than seventeen feet (17') from the edge of a
                            curb line, whichever is more restrictive.
                            In front yards, the maximum height shall be forty-
FRONT YARDS:                eight inches (48"). However, no fence shall exceed
                            two feet (2') in height within thirty feet (30') of
                            a street intersection.
                            Where allowed, fences may be constructed on lot
                            lines, as long as the fence does not interfere with
                            or obstruct a public right of way or prevent access
                            to any public utility apparatus. In the event that
                            the owner desires to construct a fence upon a
                            public utility right of way, the owner shall assume
LOT LINES AND RIGHT OF WAY: all costs associated with the removal, and the
                            Village shall not be held liable for damages by
                            permitting the fence to be constructed on or over
                            the right of way. The owner shall assume the
                            responsibility to notify all utility companies of
                            the intent to erect a fence upon a public utility
                            right of way.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/702bcf0c42692cd16fd0de8eeb200be34af722f2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1164.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/702bcf0c42692cd16fd0de8eeb200be34af722f2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1166.jpg]
 
(Ord. 23-07, 11-20-2023)
CHAPTER 6
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Definition
9-6-2: Statement Of Policy
9-6-3: Swimming Pool Enclosures
9-6-4: Penalties
9-6-1: DEFINITION:
 
POOLS: Includes swimming pools or wading pools. (Ord. 20-04, 7-17-2020)
 
9-6-2: STATEMENT OF POLICY:
It is determined and declared that the maintenance of swimming pools, wading
pools, hot tubs and fish ponds in locations accessible to children without
appropriate precautionary measures constitute a sever hazard to the safety of
the inhabitants of the Village, particularly children. (Ord. 20-04, 7-17-2020)
9-6-3: SWIMMING POOL ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Hard-Sided Pools Over Forty Two Inches (42") in Height: All owners of
private swimming pools which are permanently affixed or built on the real
estate and are forty two inches (42") and over in height, with hard sidewalls
need not have a fence, but if pool has a removable ladder, it must be removed
or locked when pool is not in use, or: if pool is equipped with a deck and/or
landing there must be a self-latching and self-locking gate preventing entry
into pool when such pool is not in use.
   B.   All gates or doors opening through the fence, wall or barrier shall be
equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device designed to keep, and
capable of keeping, such door or gate securely closed at all times when not in
actual use. The latch shall be near the top of the gate or door or otherwise
made inaccessible from the outside by small children.
   C.   Temporary Pools, Forty Two Inches (42") in Height and Under: All owners
of private swimming pools which are under forty two inches (42") in height are
not required to have any fence around the pool or around the yard in which the
pool is located, but any ladder used with such pools must be removed or locked
so as not to be usable once such pools are not in use. All pools under forty
two inches (42") in height shall either be emptied or secured with a cover when
not in use.
   D.   In-Ground Pools: All owners of private in-ground pools are required to
have a fully enclosed fence with a minimum height of forty eight inches (48")
inches to a maximum height of seventy two inches (72") around the yard in which
the pool is located. All gates or doors opening through the fence, wall or
barrier shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device designed
to keep, and capable of keeping, such door or gate securely closed at all times
when not in actual use. The latch shall be near the top of the gate or door or
otherwise made inaccessible from the outside by small children. (Ord. 20-04, 7-
17-2020)
9-6-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who has received one (1) written warning of violation of any
provision of this chapter in a calendar year, shall be assessed a fine of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first (1st) violation. Subsequent
violations in the same calendar year as the first (1st) violation, shall be
assessed a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and, in the case of a temporary pool,
shall have the temporary pool removed from the property and shall not locate
any other temporary pool on that property for the remainder of that calendar
year. (Ord. 20-04, 7-17-2020)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purposes
10-1-3: Intent
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Application And Interpretation
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited, and referred to as the VILLAGE OF CHEBANSE
ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-1-2: PURPOSES:
The Village deems it necessary in order to conserve the value of property in
the Village, and to the end, that building development may be directed to the
best advantage of the entire community, that adequate light, pure air, and
safety from fire and other dangers may be lessened or avoided, and that the
public health, safety, comfort, morals, and welfare may otherwise be promoted
in accordance with a well considered plan for the use and development of all
property throughout the community. This title is adopted for the following
purposes:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comforts and
general welfare of the people.
   B.   To divide the Village into zones or districts restricting and
regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures, and land for residential,
business, manufacturing and other specified uses.
   C.   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business, and manufacturing areas within the Village, and to promote the
orderly and beneficial development of such areas.
   D.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property.
   E.   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air, and to protect the public health.
   F.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing, or other uses within such areas.
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform.
   H.   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts.
   I.   To prevent additions or alterations or remodeling of existing buildings
or structures in such a way as to avoid the following imposed restrictions and
limitations:
      1.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles;
      2.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, and other hazards
in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
      3.   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
      4.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village;
      5.   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district; and
      6.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-1-3: INTENT:
The intent of this title is to divide the Village into districts for the
purpose of classifying, regulating and restricting the location of trades,
industries, and commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings arranged,
intended and designed for specified uses; of regulating and limiting the height
and bulk of buildings hereafter erected; of classifying, regulating and
determining the area of front, rear and side yards, courts, and other open
spaces about buildings; and of regulating and limiting the intensity of the use
of land and lot areas within the Village; creating a Board of Zoning Appeals;
defining certain terms used in this title; providing penalties for violations;
and designating the time when this title shall take effect. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of this title shall include all lands and waters within the
corporate limits of the Village. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-1-5: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of
land or buildings established hereafter, all structural alterations or
relocation of existing buildings occurring hereafter, and all enlargements or
additions to existing uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this title which are applicable to the zoning districts in which
such buildings, uses or land shall be located.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and welfare.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions:
      1.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provision of this title, or any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive (or which
impose higher standards or requirements) shall govern.
      2.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or
any other private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title
are more restrictive (or impose higher standards of requirements) than such
easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this
title shall govern.
   D.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
title is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this title shall not be affected thereby. (Ord.,
5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular, where the context requires.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is
permissive.
   C.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece", "parcel", and "tract";
and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for", "designed
for", "intended for", "maintained for", and "occupied for".
   D.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot. If a
fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or less, the integral foot next below shall be
taken.
   E.   Any words not defined in section
10-2-2 of this chapter shall be construed in their general accepted meanings,
as defined in the most recent publication of Webster's Dictionary.
   F.   The words and terms set forth in section
10-2-2 of this chapter, wherever they occur in this title, shall be interpreted
as therein defined. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOARDING HOUSE (ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE): A residential building or portion
thereof, other than a motel, apartment hotel, or hotel, containing lodging
rooms for accommodation of three (3) or more persons who are not members of the
keeper's family, and where lodging or meals, or both, are provided by
prearrangement and for definite periods, at a definite prearranged price.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
equipment, machinery, or materials.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of the
finished lot grade along the front yard face of the structure to the highest
point of flat roofs; to the mean height level between the eaves and ridges of
gable, hip, and pitch roofs; or to the deck line of mansard roofs.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The extensively developed and evolving plan, also called a
master plan, adopted by the Planning Commission.
CONSERVATION: Preservation of land, water, flora, fauna, and cultural artifacts
in their original state.
CONSUMER SERVICE: Sale of any service to individual customers for their own
personal benefit, enjoyment, or convenience. For example, consumer services
include the provision of personal services such as beautician and barbering
services, the provisions of lodging, entertainment, specialized instruction,
financial services, transportation, laundry and dry cleaning services, and all
other similar services.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as a
residence or sleeping place, but not including boarding or lodging houses,
motels, tents, cabins, or mobile homes.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Services provided by public and private utilities necessary
for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal structure.
These services include underground, surface, or overhead gas, electrical,
steam, water, sanitary sewerage, stormwater drainage, and communications
systems, and accessories thereto, such as poles, towers, wires, mains, drains,
vaults, culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water storage tanks,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, pumps,
lift stations, hydrants, etc., but not including buildings.
FAMILY: Two (2) or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of
not more than three (3) persons, who need not be related by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit and occupying a
single dwelling unit; in either case, exclusive of usual domestic servants.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross floor area for each of the several stories
under roof measured from the exterior limits or faces of a building or
structure. Areas below grade and attached accessory structures are not
included.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building, or an accessory portion of a principal
building, enclosed on at least three (3) sides, which is intended for and used
to store a private passenger motor vehicle, and no more than one (1) three-
quarter ton or lesser size truck.
GRADE: The highest level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building or structure.
HOME OCCUPATION, PROFESSIONAL: Any business or profession carried on by a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises, in connection with
which:
   A.   There are no signs, other than a permitted nameplate when attached to a
principal building, and no activity that will indicate from the exterior that
the building is being used, in whole or in part, for any purpose other than
that of a dwelling;
   B.   There are no commodities sold or services rendered that require receipt
and delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment by other than a passenger
motor vehicle or by first class mail;
   C.   There is no more than one person, other than one additional member of
the immediate family, residing on the premises so employed or otherwise so
engaged; and
   D.   There are no accessory buildings used in whole or in part.
JUNKYARD: Any land or structure used for a salvaging operation including, among
other things, the storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, and
discarded materials, and the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of
unlicensed, inoperative vehicles.
LOADING AREA: A completely off street space or berth on the same lot for the
loading or unloading of freight carriers having adequate ingress and egress to
a public street or alley.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room providing sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one
lodging room.
LOT: A single parcel of land which may be legally described as such, or two (2)
or more adjacent numbered lots or parts of such lots in a recorded subdivision
plat, having principal frontage on a street which comprises a site occupied by,
or intended for occupancy by, one principal building or principal use, together
with accessory buildings and uses, yards and other open spaces required by this
title.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) streets at their juncture when the
interior angle formed is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES AND AREA: The peripheral boundaries of a parcel of land and the total
area lying within such boundaries.
LOT, RECORDED: A lot designated on a subdivision plat or deed duly recorded
pursuant to statute in the County Recorder's Office. A recorded lot may not
coincide with a zoning lot.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a parcel of land measured at the rear of the specified
street yard.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land composed of one or more recorded lots occupied or
to be occupied by a principal building or buildings, or principal use or uses
along with permitted accessory buildings or uses, meeting all the requirements
for area, buildable area, frontage, width, yards, setbacks, and any other
requirements set forth in this title.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or similar portable structure designed, used or so
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public
streets, and to permit the year-round occupancy thereof for one or more
persons.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of lodging rooms, each with
individual bathroom, and designed for use by transient guests. A motel
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of
linens used in the lodging rooms, telephone and secretarial or desk service,
and the use and upkeep of furniture.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A building or structure, or portion thereof, lawfully
existing at the effective date hereof, which was designed, erected, or
structurally altered for a use that does not conform to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at the
effective date hereof, and which does not conform with the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
NONRETAIL COMMERCIAL: Commercial sales and services to customers who intend
resale of the products or merchandise sold or handled. For example, nonretail
commercial includes wholesale activities, warehousing, trucking terminals, and
similar commercial enterprises.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable
persons in which three (3) or more persons, not of the immediate family, are
received, kept, or provided with food and shelter and care for compensation,
but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily
to the diagnosis, treatment, or care of the sick or injured.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or selling
merchandise stored or displayed out of doors prior to sale. Such merchandise
includes, but is not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters,
motorcycles, boats, monuments, and trailers.
PARKING SPACE: A graded all-weather surface area of not less than two hundred
(200) square feet in area, either enclosed or open, for the parking of a motor
vehicle, having adequate ingress and egress to a public street or alley.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: A criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosion
hazards, or glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
Free Burning: A rate of combustion described by material which burns actively
and easily supports combustion. Examples: coal, charcoal.
Incombustible: A material which will not ignite nor actively support combustion
during an exposure for five (5) minutes to a temperature of twelve thousand
degrees Fahrenheit (12,000°F).
Intense Burning: A rate of combustion described by a material that burns with a
high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly. Examples: sawdust, magnesium
(powder, flaked, or strips), rocket fuels.
Moderate Burning: A rate of combustion described by a material which supports
combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns. Examples: wood, timber, logs.
Odor Threshold: The lowest concentration of odorous matter in air that will
produce an olfactory response in a human being. Odor thresholds shall be
determined in accordance with ASTM method D1391-57 "Standard Method for
Measurement of Odor in Atmospheres (Dilution Method)".
Odorous Matter: Any material that produces an olfactory response among human
beings.
Particulate Matter: Material other than water which is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid at
outdoor ambient conditions.
Slow Burning: A rate of combustion which describes materials that do not in
themselves constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. Examples:
wood, materials with fire retardant treatments.
Smoke: Small gasborne particles other than water that form a visible plume in
the air.
Toxic Matter: Materials which are capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel or tract of land, initially under single
ownership or control, which contains two (2) or more principal buildings and
one or more principal uses, planned and constructed as a unified development.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: That structure on any lot or parcel of land that is the
dwelling place of a family or is the primary building from which or within
which a business is conducted and to which all other buildings on that lot or
parcel of land are accessory buildings.
RETAIL SALES: Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use, not for resale.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A method of disposing of refuse by spreading and covering
such refuse with earth to a depth of two feet (2') or more on the top surface
and one foot (1') or more on the sides of the bank.
SERVICE STATION, FILLING STATION, GAS STATION: Any building or premises whose
principal use is the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail of any
motor vehicle fuel or oils. Open storage shall be limited to vehicles stored
for minor repair bearing current license plates. Such storage shall not exceed
a reasonable period of time and shall not permit the indefinite storage of
wrecked vehicles.
SETBACK, BUILDING: The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of a
building or structure and the front lot line.
SIGNS: Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names, or trademarks by which information is made known
and which are used to advertise or promote an individual, firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity, or product, and which is visible
from any public street, highway or pedestrian way.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure such as
bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground, or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. A sign, billboard, or other advertising device, detached or
projecting, shall be construed to be a structure.
THOROUGHFARE: A street with a high degree of continuity which serves as an
intrastate, an intracounty or interstate highway, or as an arterial trafficway
between various major points of original destination. It affords a primary
means of access to abutting properties except from thoroughfares classified as
freeways or other limited access routes not containing frontage roads.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use subordinate to the principal use and located on the same
premises serving a purpose customarily incidental to the principal use.
Residential accessory uses may include storage of household goods, parking
areas, gardening, servant quarters, private swimming pools and private
emergency shelters.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use, either public or private, which, because of its unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in any
particular district or districts.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards, if any, of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. It may be either a permitted or conditional use.
UTILITIES: Public and private facilities such as water wells, water and sewage
pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and communication transmission
lines, electrical power substations, static transformer stations, telephone and
telegraph exchanges, microwave radio relays, and gas regulation stations, but
not including sewage disposal plants, Municipal incinerators, warehouses,
shops, and storage yards.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise provided in this title. See
section
10-16-1, "Appendix A, Yards", of this title for illustration.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard which adjoins a street or thoroughfare.
YARD, FRONT (SETBACK): A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot
line, and the front yard line.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another lot.
YARD, REAR (SETBACK): A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot line,
and the rear yard line.
YARD, SIDE (SETBACK): A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard
line, side yard line, and side lot line. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Code Enforcement Officer
10-3-2: Zoning Permit
10-3-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-3-4: Appeals And Applications
10-3-5: Standards For Variations
10-3-6: Changes And Amendments
10-3-7: Violations; Penalty
10-3-1: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The Village Board shall designate a Code Enforcement Officer by ordinance. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall have the initial responsibility and authority
for the literal interpretation and enforcement of this title and all other
applicable ordinances, regulations, and codes, and he may enter upon and
inspect any premises in the performance of these duties. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall refer certain matters calling for original interpretations to the
Board of Zoning Appeals, as directed by various provisions of this title.
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3-2: ZONING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to commence construction or alteration of any
structure until the Code Enforcement Officer has issued a zoning permit
authorizing such work.
      2.   The Village Board of Trustees may establish a schedule of reasonable
fees to be charged for the issuance of zoning permits.
      3.   No zoning permit shall be required in the following cases:
         a.   Recurring maintenance of structures.
         b.   Installation of required improvements according to an approved
subdivision or planned development plat.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   The applicant shall submit application to the Code Enforcement
Officer including a plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions of the lot to
be built upon, the outside dimensions of all structures to be constructed or
altered, and all existing structures, the use of all structures, yard depths,
and any other information necessary for determining conformance with this
title.
      2.   Applications for industrial zoning permits shall include
certification by an engineer or architect registered in Illinois that the
applicable performance standards will be met.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: If the proposed construction or
alteration conforms with all applicable provisions of this title and all other
applicable ordinances, regulations, and codes, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall issue a zoning permit authorizing such construction or alteration. If the
proposed construction or alteration fails to conform, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall refuse to issue a zoning permit and shall deliver written notice
to the applicant stating the reasons for the refusal. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall act upon applications for zoning permits within one week from the
date of their submission.
   D.   Validity Of Permit: The issuance of a zoning permit by the Code
Enforcement Officer shall not waive any provision of this title.
   E.   Expiration And Renewal Of Permit:
      1.   A zoning permit shall become void six (6) months from the date of
issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the
construction or alteration authorized therein.
      2.   A zoning permit may be renewed, without fee, upon review by the Code
Enforcement Officer before it becomes void.
   F.   Records Kept: The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep a permanent file
of all applications with accompanying plans and all permits issued. (Ord., 5-7-
1973)
10-3-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required; Fee; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to use any newly constructed or altered
structure or to change or expand the use of any premises, even though no
structure was constructed or altered, until the Code Enforcement Officer has
issued a Certificate of Occupancy authorizing such use.
      2.   The Village Board of Trustees may authorize the Code Enforcement
Officer to require that nonconforming uses or all previously existing uses
shall maintain valid Certificates of Occupancy identifying them as
nonconforming or permitted uses as applicable.
      3.   The Village Board of Trustees may establish a schedule of reasonable
fees to be charged for the issuance of Certificates of Occupancy.
      4.   No certificate of occupancy shall be required in the following
cases:
         a.   Recurring maintenance of structures.
         b.   Installation of required improvements according to an approved
subdivision or planned development plat.
   B.   Application For Certificate: The applicant shall notify the Code
Enforcement Officer in writing of the date on which the use of any new or
altered structure or the new use of any premises will be ready to commence.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate: If the newly constructed or altered
structure and the new use of premises conform with all applicable provisions of
this title and all other applicable ordinances, regulations, and codes, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a Certificate of Occupancy authorizing the
use thereof. If the structure or use fails to conform, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall refuse to issue a Certificate of Occupancy and shall deliver
written notice to the applicant stating the reasons for the refusal. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall inspect a new structure or the premises for which a
new use is proposed and shall issue or refuse a Certificate of Occupancy within
five (5) days after the date on which the new use is ready to commence.
   D.   Validity Of Certificate: The issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy by
the Code Enforcement Officer shall not waive any provisions of this title.
   E.   Records Kept: The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep a permanent file
of all applications and all certificates issued. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3-4: APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Appeals: Appeals from the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer
concerning the literal enforcement of this title may be made by any person
aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the Village. Such
appeals shall be filed with the Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals within
thirty (30) days after the date of written notice of the decision or order of
the Code Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Applications: Applications may be made by the owner or lessee of the
structure, land, or water to be affected at any time, and shall be filed with
the Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   C.   Contents Of Appeals And Applications: Such appeals and applications
shall include the following:
      1.   Name and address of the appellant or applicant, and all abutting and
opposite property owners of record.
      2.   Plat of survey prepared by a registered land surveyor showing all of
the information required under section
10-3-2 of this chapter for a zoning permit.
      3.   Additional information required by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      4.   Fee receipt from the Village Clerk in the amount of twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Hearing: The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time and
place for the hearing, give public notice thereof, not less than fifteen (15)
nor more than thirty (30) days prior, and shall give due notice to the parties
in interest and the Code Enforcement Officer. The appellant, applicant, or his
agent shall give notice to all adjoining property owners within one hundred
fifty feet (150') by certified mail at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. At the hearing, the appellant or applicant may appear in person, by
agent, or by attorney. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3-5: STANDARDS FOR VARIATIONS:
   A.   A variation shall be permitted only if the evidence, in the judgment of
the Board of Zoning Appeals, sustains each of the following:
      1.   That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zoning district; and
      2.   That the plight of the owner was not created by the owner and is due
to unique circumstances; and
      3.   That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
   B.   For the purpose of implementing the standards in subsection A of this
section, the Board of Zoning Appeals, in making its decision whenever there are
practical difficulties or particular hardships, shall also take into
consideration the extent to which the following facts favorable to the
applicant have been established by the evidence that:
      1.   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the regulations
were strictly enforced;
      2.   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based would
not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
      3.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property or any person through whom
the applicant claims title;
      4.   The granting of the variation will not be substantially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; or
      5.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of fire, or
otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   C.   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this section to reduce or minimize the
injurious effect of such variation upon other property in the neighborhood and
to implement the general purpose and intent of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3-6: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare
or the evolving comprehensive plan requires, the Village Board of Trustees may,
by ordinance, change the district boundaries or amend, change, or supplement
the regulations established by this title or amendments hereto, or approve a
planned development project. Said change or amendment shall be subject to
review by the Village Planning Commission.
   B.   Initiation: A change or amendment may be initiated by the Village Board
of Trustees or the Planning Commission or by a petition of one or more of the
owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be changed.
   C.   Petitions:
      1.   Petitions for any change to the district boundaries or amendments to
the regulations other than planned development projects shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, describe the premises to be rezoned or the regulations to be
amended, list the reasons justifying the petition, specify the proposed use and
have attached the following:
         a.   Plot plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), showing the area proposed to be rezoned, its location, its
dimensions, the location and classification of adjacent zoning districts, and
the location and existing use of all properties within two hundred feet (200')
of the area proposed to be rezoned.
         b.   Owners' names and addresses of all properties lying within two
hundred feet (200') of the area proposed to be rezoned.
         c.   Additional information required by the Planning Commission or
Village Board of Trustees.
         d.   Fee receipt from the Village Clerk in the amount of twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
      2.   Petition for a planned development project shall be filed as a
preliminary plat, as required by the planned development procedure.
   D.   Hearings: The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing upon each
request listing the time, place, and changes or amendments proposed, and
published at least once, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen
(15) days, before the hearing in one or more newspapers of general circulation
in the Village. Property owners two hundred feet (200') in each direction of
the proposed change shall be notified by letter delivered in person or by
certified mail.
   E.   Planning Commission Recommendations: The Planning Commission shall
review all proposed changes and amendments within the corporate limits, and
shall recommend, after holding a public hearing as prescribed in subsection D
of this section, that the petition be granted as requested.
   F.   Village Board Action: After careful consideration of the Planning
Commission's recommendations, the Village Board of Trustees shall vote on the
passage of the proposed change or amendment. The Planning Commission's
recommendations may only be overruled by three-fourths (3/4) of the full
Village Board membership.
   G.   Protests: In the event of a protest against such district change or
amendment to the regulations of this title, duly signed and acknowledged by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) or more either of the areas of the land included
in such proposed change, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of
the land immediately adjacent extending one hundred feet (100') therefrom, or
by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the land directly opposite
thereto extending one hundred feet (100') from the street frontage of such
opposite land, such changes or amendments shall not become effective except by
the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the full Village Board membership.
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful to construct or use any structure,
land, or water in violation of any of the provisions of this title. In case of
any violation, the Village Board of Trustees, Code Enforcement Officer,
Planning Commission or any property owner who would be specifically damaged by
such violation may institute appropriate action or proceedings to enjoin a
violation of this title. A building permit issued for construction shall
constitute consent of the governmental agency having jurisdiction for such
construction and shall not later be challenged as long as the plans submitted
for approval are properly followed throughout the entire construction project.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with the
provisions of this title shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense. Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Board Established; Purpose
10-3A-2: Membership; Appointment And Term; Vacancies
10-3A-3: Organization
10-3A-4: Voting Requirements
10-3A-5: Powers
10-3A-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby established a Board of Zoning Appeals for the Village for the
purpose of hearing appeals and applications and granting variances and
exceptions to the provisions of this title in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3A-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; VACANCIES:
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the
Village President and confirmed by the Village Board of Trustees. Terms shall
be for staggered three (3) year periods. Vacancies shall be filled for an
unexpired term in the same manner as appointments for a full term. (Ord., 5-7-
1973)
10-3A-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chair: The Chair shall be designated by the Village President and
confirmed by the Village Board of Trustees.
      2.   Secretary: The Secretary shall be appointed by the Chair, and shall
be a member of the Board.
   B.   Rules Of Procedure: The Board of Zoning Appeals shall organize and
adopt rules of procedure for its own government in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
   C.   Meetings: Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chair and shall be
open to the public. The Code Enforcement Officer shall attend all meetings for
the purpose of providing technical assistance when requested by the Board.
   D.   Minutes: Minutes of the proceedings and a record of all actions shall
be kept by the Secretary showing the vote of each member upon each question,
the reasons for the Board's determination, and its findings of fact. These
records shall be immediately filed in the Office of the Code Enforcement
Officer and shall be a public record. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3A-4: VOTING REQUIREMENTS:
The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board shall be necessary to
correct an error; grant a variance; make an interpretation; and permit a
utility, temporary, unclassified, or substituted use. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-3A-5: POWERS:
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers:
   A.   Appeals And Permits:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
      2.   The Board may reverse, affirm wholly or partly, modify the
requirements appealed from, and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
   B.   Variances: To hear and grant appeals for variances as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement will result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship so that
the spirit and purposes of this title shall be observed and the public safety,
welfare, and justice secured. Use variances shall not be granted.
   C.   Interpretation: To hear and decide application for interpretations of
this title and the boundaries of the zoning districts.
   D.   Substitutions: To hear and grant applications for substitution of more
restrictive nonconforming uses for existing nonconforming uses, provided no
structural alterations are to be made. Whenever the Board permits such a
substitution, the use may not thereafter be changed without application.
   E.   Unclassified Uses: To hear and grant applications for unclassified and
unspecified uses; provided, that such uses are similar in character to the
principal uses permitted in the district.
   F.   Temporary Uses: To hear and grant applications for temporary uses in
any district; provided, that such uses are of a temporary nature, do not
involve the erection of a substantial structure, and are compatible with the
neighboring uses. The permit shall be temporary, revocable, subject to any
conditions required by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and be issued for a period
not to exceed twelve (12) months. Compliance with all other provisions of this
title shall be required.
   G.   Assistance: May request assistance from other Village officers,
departments, commissions, and boards.
   H.   Oaths: The Chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS; MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Use Restrictions
10-4-2: Site Restrictions
10-4-3: Modifications And Exceptions
10-4-1: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Principal Uses: Only those principal uses specified for a district or
on a planned development plat, their essential services, and the following uses
shall be permitted in that district.
   B.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Accessory uses and structures are
permitted in any district, but not until their principal structure is present
or under construction.
   C.   Conditional Uses And Their Accessory Uses: Conditional uses and their
accessory uses are permitted in districts as specified, but only according to
the conditional use procedure in section
10-14-3 of this title. Also, any development within five hundred feet (500') of
the existing or proposed rights-of-way of freeways, expressways, interstate and
controlled access trafficways, and within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of their existing or proposed interchange or turning lane rights-of-
way shall be deemed to be conditional uses. Such development shall be
specifically reviewed by the Village Planning Commission, as provided in
section
10-14-3 of this title.
   D.   Unclassified Or Unspecified Uses: In case of uncertainty where the Code
Enforcement Officer is unable to determine literally whether a use is permitted
as a principal or accessory use, he shall consult the Board of Zoning Appeals
for an original interpretation.
   E.   Temporary Uses: Temporary uses such as real estate sales field offices
or shelters for materials and equipment being used in the construction of a
permanent structure are permitted while sales or construction is in progress.
   F.   Performance Standards: Performance standards listed in chapter 15 of
this title shall apply to all uses in all districts. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-4-2: SITE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Soil Conditions:
      1.   No land shall be used or structure erected where the land is held
unsuitable for such use or structure by the Village Planning Commission by
reason of flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or
rock formation, unfavorable topography, low percolation rate or bearing
strength, erosion susceptibility, or any other feature likely to be harmful to
health, safety, prosperity, aesthetics, and general welfare of the Village.
      2.   The Village Planning Commission, in applying the provisions of this
section, shall, in writing, recite the particular facts upon which it bases its
conclusion that the land is not suitable for certain uses.
      3.   The applicant shall have an opportunity to present evidence
contesting such unsuitability, if he so desires.
      4.   Thereafter, the Village Planning Commission may affirm, modify, or
withdraw its determination of unsuitability.
   B.   Lot Frontage: All lots that abut upon a public thoroughfare shall have
at least thirty feet (30') of frontage unless a variance or planned development
project is approved.
   C.   Minimum Lot Requirements; One Structure Per Lot:
      1.   Each lot or parcel of land on which a principal structure is
located, erected or moved must meet the minimum requirements for that
structure.
      2.   Only one principal structure per lot or parcel of land shall be
allowed.
   D.   Street Dedication Required: No zoning permit shall be issued for a lot
which abuts a public street dedicated to only a portion of its proposed width
and located on that side thereof from which the required dedication has not
been secured.
   E.   Private Sewer And Water Systems: In a district where public sewerage
service is not available, the width and area of all lots shall be sufficient to
permit the use of an on site sewerage disposal system designed in accordance
with the local or State Board of Health standards.
   F.   Reduction Of Joint Use:
      1.   No lot, yard, parking area, building area, or other space shall be
reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the provisions of this title.
      2.   No part of any lot, yard, parking area, or other space required for
a structure or use shall be used for any other structure or use.
   G.   Substandard Lots: Any lot in a single ownership, which ownership was of
record at the effective date hereof, that does not meet the requirements of
this title for yards, courts, or other area of open space may be utilized for
single residence purposes, provided the requirements for such yard or court
area, width, depth, or open space is within seventy five percent (75%) of that
required by the terms of this title. The purpose of this subsection is to
permit utilization of recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth, as long
as reasonable living standards can be provided. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-4-3: MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Height:
      1.   The district height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this title
may be exceeded, but such modification shall be in accord with the following:
         a.   Architectural projections such as spires, belfries, parapet
walls, cupolas, domes, flues and chimneys are exempt from the height
limitations of this title.
         b.   Special structures such as elevator penthouses, gas tanks, grain
elevators, scenery lofts, radio and television receiving antennas,
manufacturing equipment and necessary mechanical appurtenances, cooling towers,
fire towers, substations, and smokestacks are exempt from the height
limitations of this title.
         c.   Essential services, utilities, water towers, electric power and
communication transmission lines are exempt from the height limitations of this
title.
         d.   Communication structures such as radio and television
transmission and relay towers, aerials, and observation towers shall not exceed
in height three (3) times their distance from the nearest lot line.
         e.   Agricultural structures such as barns, silos, and windmills shall
not exceed in height twice their distance from the nearest lot line.
         f.   Public or semipublic facilities such as schools, churches,
hospitals, monuments, sanitariums, libraries, governmental offices and stations
may be erected to a height of sixty feet (60'), provided all required yards are
increased not less than one foot (1') for each foot the structure exceeds the
district maximum height requirement.
   B.   Yards: The yard requirements stipulated elsewhere in this title may be
modified as follows:
      1.   Uncovered stairs, landings, and fire escapes may project into any
yard, but not to exceed six feet (6'), and not closer than three feet (3') to
any lot line.
      2.   Architectural projections such as chimneys, flues, sills, belt
courses, and ornaments may project into any required yard, but such projection
shall not exceed two feet (2').
      3.   Residential fences are permitted on the property lines in
Residential Districts and shall not be closer than two feet (2') to any public
right-of-way.
      4.   Security fences are permitted on the property lines in all
districts, but shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height and shall be of an
open type similar to woven wire or wrought iron fencing.
      5.   Accessory uses and detached accessory structures are permitted in
the rear and side yards only. They shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to
the principal structure; shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height; shall
not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the rear and side yard area; and
shall not be closer than five feet (5') to any lot line.
      6.   Essential services, utilities, electric power and communication
transmission lines are exempt from the yard and distance requirements of this
title.
      7.   Landscaping and vegetation are exempt from the yard requirements of
this title.
   C.   Additions: Additions in the front yard of existing structures shall not
project beyond the average of the existing front yards on the abutting lots or
parcels.
   D.   Average Front Yards: The required front yards may be decreased in any
Residential or Business District to the average of the existing front yards of
the abutting structures on each side, but in no case less than fifteen feet
(15') in any Residential District.
   E.   Noise: Sirens, whistles, and bells which are maintained and utilized
solely to serve a public purpose are exempt from the sound level standards of
this title.
   F.   Agricultural Uses: Agriculture, excluding the raising of animals as a
commercial enterprise, is permitted in all districts until replaced by
permitted uses. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-5-1: Districts Established; Purpose
10-5-2: Zoning Map
10-5-3: District Boundaries
10-5-4: Zoning Of Certain Lands
10-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades and
industries, and the location of buildings designated for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas,
and to regulate and determine the area of yards, courts, and other open spaces
within and surrounding such buildings, the Village is hereby divided into the
following classes or districts. The use, height, and area regulations are
uniform in each district, and said districts shall be known as:
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
R-2 Single-Family Residential District
R-3 Single-Family Residential District
R-4 Two-Family and Multi-Family Residential District
CD  Conservancy District
B-1 Business District
B-2 Business District
M-1 Industrial District
M-2 Industrial District
M-3 Extraction District
PD  Planned Development District
 
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-5-2: ZONING MAP:
A certified copy of the Zoning Map shall be adopted and approved with the text
as part of this title and shall bear upon its face the attestation of the
Village President and Village Clerk. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-5-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established as shown on the
map entitled "Zoning Map, Chebanse, Illinois", and is a part of this title.
Such boundaries shall be construed to follow: corporate limit lines; U.S.
Public Land Survey lines; lot or property lines; centerlines of streets,
highways, alleys, easements, and railroad rights-of- way, or such lines
extended; and soil mapping unit lines; unless otherwise noted on the Zoning
Map. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-5-4: ZONING OF CERTAIN LANDS:
   A.   Vacated Public Ways: Vacation of public streets and alleys shall cause
the land vacated to be automatically placed in the same district as the
abutting side to which the vacated land reverts.
   B.   Annexed Land: Annexations to or consolidations with the Village
subsequent to the effective date hereof shall be placed in the most restrictive
zoning district unless the annexation ordinance places the land in another
district. Within one year, the Village Planning Commission shall evaluate and
recommend a permanent district classification to the Village. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1, R-2 AND R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Permitted Uses
10-6A-2: Conditional Uses
10-6A-3: Special Regulations
10-6A-4: Dimensions
10-6A-4-1: R-1 District
10-6A-4-2: R-2 District
10-6A-4-3: R-3 District
10-6A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses.
Home occupations.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6A-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Public or private community facilities such as schools, churches, cemeteries,
libraries, parks, recreational facilities, hospitals, institutions, etc. See
also chapter 14 of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6A-3: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   All parking stalls required by chapter 11 of this title shall be
located in the side or rear yard at least five feet (5') from all lot lines or
attached to the home and conforming with required yards.
      2.   Each parking stall shall be twelve feet (12') wide.
   B.   Garages: Garages shall cover no more than thirty percent (30%) of the
total area of the side and rear yards combined.
   C.   Swimming Pools: Swimming pools must conform to State Board of Health
regulations and are required to be enclosed by a security fence. Swimming pools
are permitted only on lots with a minimum area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6A-4: DIMENSIONS:
10-6A-4-1: R-1 DISTRICT:
   A.   Lots:
      1.   Minimum area: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum width at building: Seventy five feet (75').
   B.   Minimum yards:
      1.   Front: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Rear: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side: Ten percent (10%) of the lot width.
   C.   Buildings:
      1.   Maximum ground coverage: Thirty percent (30%) of the lot area.
      2.   Minimum total floor area: One thousand three hundred (1,300) square
feet.
      3.   Maximum height: Thirty five feet (35'). (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6A-4-2: R-2 DISTRICT:
   A.   Lots:
      1.   Minimum area: Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet.
      2.   Minimum width at building line: Sixty feet (60').
   B.   Minimum yards:
      1.   Front: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Rear: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side: Ten percent (10%) of the lot width.
   C.   Buildings:
      1.   Maximum ground coverage: Thirty percent (30%) of the lot area.
      2.   Minimum total floor area: One thousand (1,000) square feet.
      3.   Maximum height: Thirty five feet (35'). (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6A-4-3: R-3 DISTRICT:
   A.   Lots:
      1.   Minimum area: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum width at building lines: Fifty feet (50').
   B.   Minimum yards:
      1.   Front: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Rear: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side: Ten percent (10%) of the lot width.
   C.   Buildings:
      1.   Maximum ground coverage: Thirty percent (30%) of the lot area.
      2.   Minimum total floor area: One thousand (1,000) square feet.
      3.   Maximum height: Thirty five feet (35'). (Ord., 5-7-1973)
ARTICLE B. R-4 TWO-FAMILY AND MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Permitted Uses
10-6B-2: Conditional Uses
10-6B-3: Special Regulations
10-6B-4: Dimensions
10-6B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses.
Two-family and multi-family dwellings. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6B-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Public or private community facilities such as schools, churches, cemeteries,
libraries, parks, recreational facilities, hospitals, institutions, etc. See
also chapter 14 of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6B-3: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Off Street Parking: Two (2) parking spaces shall be provided for each
dwelling unit, as required by chapter 11 of this title.
   B.   Plat Requirements: All development proposed in the R-4 District
containing more than two (2) dwelling units shall be subject to design review
by the Village Planning Commission and building inspector. Portions of the
planned development procedure shall be used as follows:
      1.   The amendment required by the planned development procedure shall be
waived since this district has already been established exclusively for multi-
family dwellings according to the standards cited.
      2.   Preliminary and final plats shall be required according to the
planned development procedure; except, that the Planning Commission may waive
the preliminary plat in areas already subdivided and served with streets and
all required improvements. In this case, the approved final plat shall replace
the final plat recorded earlier at the time of subdivision.
      3.   Site design flexibility and originality shall be encouraged within
the limitations of the use and dimensional standards cited for this district.
Preliminary and final plats shall conform to the standards for this district
and any applicable comprehensive plan elements.
      4.   The recorded final plat shall provide continuing control over the
completed development, as specified in the planned development procedure.
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-6B-4: DIMENSIONS:
   A.   Minimum lot area for two-family dwellings: Fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
   B.   Maximum density for multi-family dwellings: Fifteen (15) dwelling units
per acre; thirty (30) bedrooms per acre. Maximum density shall be interpolated
proportionally where development less than an acre is proposed.
   C.   Minimum yards:
      1.   Principal buildings: Twenty feet (20') from the project boundaries.
      2.   Accessory buildings: Five feet (5') from the project boundaries.
   D.   Buildings:
      1.   Minimum total floor area:
         a.   Efficiency: Five hundred (500) square feet.
         b.   One bedroom apartment: Six hundred fifty (650) square feet.
         c.   Two (2) bedroom apartment: Eight hundred fifty (850) square feet.
         d.   Each additional bedroom: Two hundred (200) square feet.
      2.   Maximum height: Forty five feet (45'). (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 7
CD CONSERVANCY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Permitted Uses
10-7-2: Conditional Uses
10-7-3: Special Regulations
10-7-1: PERMITTED USES:
Agriculture and similar uses.
Conservation.
Sale of agricultural products produced on the premises. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-7-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Accessory uses for adjacent districts.
Land filling.
Public or private recreational facilities and parks.
Relocation of any watercourse.
Removal of topsoil. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-7-3: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   No principal buildings for any use may be built in the Conservancy
District.
   B.   Land under single ownership in the Conservancy District may be included
in computation of residential lots, yards, or other open spaces in adjacent
districts. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 8
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Permitted Uses
10-8A-2: Conditional Uses
10-8A-3: Special Regulations
10-8A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Community facilities such as churches, libraries, art galleries, parks,
hospitals, institutions, and government buildings.
Consumer services. Processing is permitted only if all such processing is
performed as a consumer service for customers served on the premises.
Professional, business, and government offices.
Retail sales. Processing of products is permitted only if all products are sold
at retail on the premises. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-8A-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-8A-3: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
All sales, services, processing and display shall take place within a
completely enclosed building. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
ARTICLE B. B-2 BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Permitted Uses
10-8B-2: Conditional Uses
10-8B-3: Special Regulations
10-8B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Same as the B-1 District. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-8B-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Fuel filling stations whether or not containing retail sales or service. See
also chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 09-04, 7-6-2009)
10-8B-3: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
Sales, services, processing, and display may take place outdoors. However,
junkyards are not permitted. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. M-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9A-1: Permitted Uses
10-9A-2: Conditional Uses
10-9A-3: Special Regulations
10-9A-4: Minimum Yards
10-9A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Industry.
Laboratories.
Nonretail commercial.
Offices. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-9A-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Service facilities clearly for the convenience of persons and firms in the
Industrial District including, for example, restaurants, banks, recreational
facilities, industrial service businesses, and similar service facilities. See
also chapter 14 of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1973; amd. Ord. 09-04, 7-6-2009)
10-9A-3: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   All processing and storage shall take place within completely enclosed
buildings.
   B.   See chapter 15 of this title for applicable performance standards.
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-9A-4: MINIMUM YARDS:
   A.   Front: Fifty feet (50') from the right-of-way of any thoroughfare.
   B.   All others: Twenty feet (20') from all lot lines. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
ARTICLE B. M-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9B-1: Permitted Uses
10-9B-2: Conditional Uses
10-9B-3: Special Regulations
10-9B-4: Minimum Yards
10-9B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Same as the M-1 District. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-9B-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Same as the M-1 District. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-9B-3: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Processing and storage may take place within buildings or outdoors.
However, junkyards are not permitted.
   B.   See chapter 15 of this title for applicable performance standards.
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-9B-4: MINIMUM YARDS:
   A.   Front: Fifty feet (50') from the right-of-way of any thoroughfare.
   B.   All others: Twenty feet (20') from all lot lines. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
ARTICLE C. M-3 EXTRACTION DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9C-1: Permitted Uses
10-9C-2: Conditional Uses
10-9C-3: Conditional Use Procedure
10-9C-1: PERMITTED USES:
Sand, gravel, clay, coal, limestone, salt and other mineral extraction and/or
crushing processes. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-9C-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Extension of legally existing mineral extraction operations or the creation of
new such mineral extraction or manufacturing operations. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-9C-3: CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application For Conditional Use:
      1.   The application for the conditional use approval shall include:
         a.   An adequate description of the operations.
         b.   A list of equipment, machinery, and structures to be used.
         c.   The source, quantity, and disposition of water to be used.
         d.   A topographic map of the site showing existing contours with
minimum vertical contour interval of five feet (5'), and existing access roads,
the depth of all existing and proposed excavations, and restored topsoil, type
of fill, planting, or reforestation, restoration commencement and completion
dates.
      2.   The applicant shall furnish the necessary fees to provide for
Village inspection and administrative costs and the necessary sureties which
will enable the Village to perform the planned restoration of the site in event
of default by the applicant. The amount of such sureties shall be based upon
cost estimates prepared by an authorized engineer and the Village Attorney.
   B.   Approval And Renewal: Conditional use approval shall be in effect for a
period not to exceed two (2) years and may be renewed upon application for a
period not to exceed two (2) years.
   C.   Modifications Or Additional Conditions:
      1.   Modification or additional conditions may be imposed upon
application for renewal.
      2.   The Village Planning Commission shall particularly consider the
effect of the proposed operation upon existing streets, neighboring
development, proposed land use, drainage, water supply, soil erosion, natural
beauty, character, and land value of the locality, and shall also consider the
practicality of the proposed restoration of the site. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 10
PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-10-1: General Provisions
10-10-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Areas may be designated on the Zoning Map as Planned Development
Districts even though no specific plan has been submitted under the planned
development procedure.
   B.   These districts shall be keyed to the comprehensive plan elements which
comprise the statement of intent establishing the design and use criteria for
evaluation of specific proposals submitted under the planned development
procedure.
   C.   Proposals for development of these districts shall be reviewed only
under the planned development procedure in section
10-14-2 of this title.
   D.   The intent of this section is to enable the Village Planning Commission
to designate those areas subject to potential development of such intensiveness
and importance that plan review and design commitment are necessary as the
basis for approval of development. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 11
TRAFFIC, PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Traffic Visibility
10-11-2: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-11-2-1: Application Of Provisions
10-11-2-2: Additional Parking Regulations
10-11-2-3: Additional Loading Regulations
10-11-2-4: Schedule Of Parking And Loading Spaces
10-11-3: Parking Certain Vehicles And Items In Residential Districts
10-11-4: Driveways
10-11-5: Access To Rights-Of-Way
10-11-1: TRAFFIC VISIBILITY:
   A.   No obstruction such as structures, parking, or vegetation shall be
permitted in any district between the heights of two and one-half feet (21/2')
and ten feet (10') above the plane through the mean curb grades within the
triangular space formed by any two (2) existing or proposed intersecting street
or alley right-of-way lines and a line joining points on such lines located a
minimum of twenty feet (20') from their intersection.
   B.   In the case of arterial streets intersecting with other arterial
streets or railways, the corner cutoff distance establishing the triangular
vision clearance space shall be increased to fifty feet (50'). (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-11-2: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
10-11-2-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The off street parking and loading provisions of this title shall apply as
follows:
   A.   Increase In Intensity Of Use: When the intensity of use of any
building, structure, or premises shall be increased through additional dwelling
units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or other units of measurement
specified herein for required parking or loading facilities, as required
herein, shall be provided for such increases in intensity of use.
   B.   Change To New Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use. However, if the said building or
structure was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use, if the latter were
subject to the parking and loading provisions of this title.
   C.   Existing Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which were in existence on the effective date hereof, or
were provided voluntarily after such effective date, shall not hereafter be
reduced below, or if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the
requirements of this title for a similar new building or use.
   D.   Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this title shall
be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of contiguous off street
parking or loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings;
provided, that all regulations herein governing the location, design,
improvement, and operation of such facilities are adhered to.
   E.   Off Site Parking Facilities:
      1.   Where required, parking facilities are provided on land other than
the zoning lot on which the building or use served by such facilities is
located, they shall be, and shall remain in the same possession or ownership
as, the zoning lot occupied by the building or use to which the parking
facilities are accessory.
      2.   No such off site parking facilities shall be authorized, and no
zoning permit shall be issued, where the plans call for parking facilities
other than on the same zoning lot until and unless the Board of Zoning Appeals
has reviewed the plans and heard the applicant and made findings that the
common ownership or possession of the zoning lot and site of the parking
facilities are reasonably certain to continue, and that the off site parking
facilities will be maintained at all times during the life of the proposed use
or building. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-11-2-2: ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location: The location of off street parking spaces in relation to the
use served shall be at the following walking distances:
      1.   Single-family districts: On the same zoning lot within three hundred
feet (300').
      2.   Multi-family districts: Within five hundred feet (500').
      3.   Business and manufacturing districts: Within one thousand feet
(1,000').
   B.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Size Of Parking Spaces: Size of each parking space shall not be less
than two hundred (200) square feet, exclusive of the space required for ingress
and egress.
      2.   Access To Parking Spaces:
         a.   Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon
an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space.
         b.   All off street parking facilities shall be designed with the
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements.
         c.   No driveway across public property or requiring a curb shall
exceed a width of twenty five feet (25'). Driveways shall be at least ten feet
(10') wide for one- and two-family dwellings.
      3.   Surfacing And Bumper Guards: All open off street parking areas,
except parking spaces accessory to a single-family dwelling, shall be improved
with an asphaltic concrete surface, concrete, or some comparable all-weather
dustless material, and shall have appropriate bumper guards where needed.
      4.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
create a nuisance.
   C.   Use Of Parking Facilities: Except as otherwise indicated, required
accessory off street parking facilities provided for uses listed hereinafter
shall be solely for the parking of passenger automobiles of patrons, occupants
(or their guests), or employees of such uses.
   D.   Collective Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for
separate uses may be provided collectively, if the total number of spaces so
provided collectively is not less than the sum of the separate requirements for
each such use; and provided, that all regulations governing the location of
accessory parking spaces in relation to the use served are adhered to. Further,
no parking space or portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more
than one use unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   E.   Mixed Uses: When two (2) or more uses are located on the same zoning
lot or within the same building, parking spaces equal in number to the sum of
the separate requirements for each such use shall be provided. No parking space
or portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless
otherwise authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   F.   Other Uses: For uses not listed in the schedule of parking requirements
in section
10-11-2-4 of this section
10-11-2, parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as required for the
most similar listed use, or as determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-11-2-3: ADDITIONAL LOADING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location:
      1.   All required loading berths shall be located on the same zoning lot
as the use served.
      2.   No loading berth for vehicles over two (2) tons' capacity shall be
closer than fifty feet (50') to any property in a Residence District unless
completely enclosed by a building wall, or uniformly painted solid fence or
wall, or any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') in height.
   B.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Loading Area Generally: See definition of loading area in section
10-2-2 of this title.
      2.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with traffic movements and subject to approval of
the Code Enforcement Officer.
      3.   Surfacing: All open off street loading berths shall be improved with
a compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced with
not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete, or some comparable all-
weather, dustless material.
   C.   Loading Berths Not To Satisfy Parking Spaces: Space allocated to any
off street loading berth shall not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the
space requirements for any off street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   D.   Other Uses: For conditional uses other than prescribed for hereinafter,
loading berths adequate in number and size to serve such use, as determined by
the Board of Zoning Appeals, shall be provided. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-11-2-4: SCHEDULE OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
Off street parking, and off street loading and unloading facilities shall be
provided in accordance with the following schedule:
Use Number Of Parking Spaces Number Of Loading AndnUnloading Spaces
Use                       Number Of Parking Spaces   Number Of Loading
                                                     AndnUnloading Spaces
Churches , theaters,                                 1 for each structure over
auditoriums and other     1 per 5 seating spaces     100,000 sq. ft. of gross
places of assembly                                   floor area
                                                     1 for each shop over
Commercial (except as                                10,000 sq. ft. of gross
specifically provided in  1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area, plus 1 for
this section)             floor area                 each additional 100,000
                                                     sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                     area
Furniture and appliance                              1, plus 1 additional, for
stores, motor vehicle     1 per 400 sq. ft. of gross each 25,000 sq. ft. of
sales, machinery sales,   floor area                 gross floor area
wholesale
Hospitals, rest homes,    1 per 3 employees, plus 1  1 for each 100,000 sq. ft.
nursing homes, etc.       per 3 beds                 of gross floor area
                          1 for each employee on the 1 for each structure, plus
Manufacturing,            maximum working shift,     1 for each 60,000 sq. ft.
warehousing               plus 1 for each vehicle    of gross floor area over
                          used in the conduct of the 40,000 sq. ft.
                          enterprise
                          1 per lodging unit, plus 1 1 for each structure of
Motels, hotels, lodging   for each 100 sq. ft. of    20,000 sq. ft. of gross
houses                    retail sales or dining     floor area
                          area
                                                     1 for each structure over
                                                     40,000 sq. ft. of gross
Offices, banks, or public 1 per 400 sq. ft. of gross floor area, plus 1 for
administration            floor area                 each additional 100,000
                                                     sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                     area
Single-family and multi-  2 per dwelling unit           None
family dwellings
 
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-11-3: PARKING CERTAIN VEHICLES AND ITEMS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   All equipment or tools or junk motor vehicles shall be parked or stored
in a completely enclosed structure on any residential premises except when
making a delivery or rendering a service at such premises.
   B.   All equipment or tools which are not used in the regular operation of a
business or appear to be discarded, or junk vehicles of any kind, shall be
parked or stored in a completely enclosed structure on any residential
premises. This shall also include equipment, materials or tools which
reasonably appear to be not in use. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-11-4: DRIVEWAYS:
All driveways installed, altered, changed, replaced, or extended after the
effective date hereof shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Openings for vehicular ingress and egress shall not exceed twenty four
feet (24') at the street line and thirty feet (30') at the roadway.
   B.   Vehicular entrances and exits to drive-in theaters, banks, and
restaurants; motels; funeral homes; vehicular sales, service, washing, and
repair stations; garages; or public parking lots shall not be less than two
hundred feet (200') from any pedestrian entrance or exit to a school, college,
university, church, hospital, park, playground, library, public emergency
shelter, or other place of public assembly. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-11-5: ACCESS TO RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   No direct private access shall be permitted to the existing or proposed
rights-of-way of expressways nor to any controlled access arterial street
without permission of the highway agency that has control jurisdiction and of
the Planning Commission and the Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   No direct public or private access shall be permitted to the existing
or proposed rights-of-way of the following:
      1.   Freeways, interstate highways, and their interchanges or turning
lanes, nor to intersecting or interchanging streets within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the most remote end of the taper of the turning lanes.
      2.   Arterial streets intersecting another arterial street within one
hundred feet (100') of the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
      3.   Streets intersecting an arterial street within fifty feet (50') of
the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
      4.   Access barriers such as curbing, fencing, ditching, landscaping, or
other topographic barriers shall be erected to prevent unauthorized vehicular
ingress or egress to the above specified streets or highways.
      5.   Temporary access to the above rights-of-way may be granted by the
Village Planning Commission after review and recommendation by the highway
agencies having jurisdiction. Such access permit shall be temporary, revocable,
and subject to any condition required, and shall be issued for a period not to
exceed twelve (12) months. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 12
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Permit And Fee Requirements
10-12-3: Directional And Informational Signs
10-12-4: Obstructions By Signs Prohibited
10-12-5: Maintenance; Repair Or Removal
10-12-6: Unsafe, Unlawful Signs
10-12-7: Nonconforming Signs
10-12-8: Permitted Signs In Zoning Districts
10-12-8-1: Residential Districts
10-12-8-2: Business Districts
10-12-8-3: Industrial Districts
10-12-9: Exemptions From Provisions
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a guide to the location, size,
content and placement of signs throughout the Village so that signs are both
effective and compatible with the environment. (Ord. 02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-2: PERMIT AND FEE REQUIREMENTS:
The permit and fee requirements shall be as indicated in the applicable
building permit fee schedule. (Ord. 02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-3: DIRECTIONAL AND INFORMATIONAL SIGNS:
   A.   Permitted In Any District: Directional or informational signs of a
public or semipublic nature, not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area, are
permitted in any district. Such signs may not be illuminated but may be of the
beaded reflector or phosphorescent type. Such signs shall be of the types and
contain only such displays as follows:
      1.   Permanent signs displaying the name and location of the Village,
airport, hospital, community center, private school, college, YMCA, YWCA,
church or other place of worship; or the name or place of meeting of an
official or civic body such as the Chamber of Commerce, Rotary, Kiwanis, or
other similar service or community clubs.
      2.   Temporary signs displaying the name, location, and time of an event
of public interest such as a State or County Fair, public or general election,
circus, rodeo, or other such event in connection with which the support of the
general public is essential to the success of the event. Such sign shall be
removed within ten (10) days after the event is over.
   B.   State Highway Directional Signs: State highway directional signs and
markings and signs announcing the location of or directing traffic to given
locations shall be made and installed in accordance with the specifications of
the State Highway Department and require a State permit. (Ord. 02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-4: OBSTRUCTIONS BY SIGNS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Obstruction Of Entrances: A sign erected in any district shall not be
constructed and/or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, window, door
or opening used as a means of entrance or egress for firefighting purposes, or
so as to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof
or to another roof. No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner to a
fire escape or be so placed as to interfere with any opening required for legal
ventilation.
   B.   Obstruction Of View: No sign of any kind shall be located or placed so
as to interfere with the full view of vehicular traffic in all directions.
(Ord. 02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-5: MAINTENANCE; REPAIR OR REMOVAL:
The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to determine whether or not a
sign is adequately maintained and shall order repaired or removed any sign
which is not being adequately maintained. (Ord. 02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-6: UNSAFE, UNLAWFUL SIGNS:
   A.   Notice To Remove Or Alter: If the Code Enforcement Officer finds that
any sign is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been
constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of
this chapter, he/she shall give written notice to the person to whom the
certificate has been issued.
   B.   Removal Or Alteration By Village; Costs: If the person to whom the
certificate has been issued fails to remove or alter the sign to comply with
the standards herein set forth within ten (10) days after sign notice, such
sign may be removed or altered by the Code Enforcement Officer in a manner that
will comply. Such action shall be at the expense of the property owner upon
whose land the sign is located.
   C.   Summary Removal: The Code Enforcement Officer may cause any sign which
is an immediate peril to the persons or property to be summarily removed. (Ord.
02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-7: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
A sign lawfully established before the effective date hereof but not conforming
with the regulations hereof may remain. Minor repairs and maintenance of such
signs and the repainting and change of display of an existing painted bulletin
sign and changing display of an existing poster panel sign is not affected by
this title. Replacements or enlargements are not permitted. (Ord. 02-04, 6-3-
2002)
10-12-8: PERMITTED SIGNS IN ZONING DISTRICTS:
10-12-8-1: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Nameplates And Identification Signs (Nonflashing And Nonilluminated):
      1.   Size: Not more than two (2) square feet in area.
      2.   Height: Said sign shall be located on the principal structure.
      3.   Setbacks: Said sign shall be located on the principal structure.
      4.   Number: One nameplate for each principal farm dwelling. On a corner
lot, two (2) such nameplates for each dwelling unit, one facing each street.
      5.   Contents: The name of the occupant, name and address of the building
on the lot, or permitted home occupation.
   B.   "For Sale" And "To Rent" Signs (Nonflashing And Nonilluminated):
      1.   Size: No sign shall exceed twelve (12) square feet in area.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than fifteen feet (15') above
average grade.
      3.   Setbacks: No nearer than ten feet (10') from a right-of- way line
adjoining a street; no nearer than five feet (5') from an interior side or rear
lot line.
      4.   Number: No more than one such sign per lot; except, that on a corner
lot, two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
      5.   Contents: Name, address, and phone number of seller or agent.
   C.   Church Bulletin Signs (Nonflashing And Nonilluminated):
      1.   Size: No sign shall exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than fifteen feet (15') above
average grade.
      3.   Setback: No sign shall be nearer than ten feet (10') from the right-
of-way adjoining a street.
      4.   Number: There shall be not more than one sign per lot; except, that
on a corner lot, two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
(Ord. 02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-8-2: BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Sign Supports:
         a.   Sign display surfaces not attached to a building or awning shall
be supported by not more than two (2) columns, each having a diameter of not
more than six inches (6") or, in the case of a single column, not less than
eight inches (8").
         b.   Signs on awnings shall be exempt from the limitations imposed by
this chapter; provided, that any sign located on an awning shall be affixed
flat to the surface thereof, shall be nonilluminated, and shall indicate only
the name or address of the establishment in the building to which it is
attached. No such sign shall extend vertically or horizontally beyond the
limits of said awning.
      2.   Illumination And Movement:
         a.   Signs may have constant or flashing illumination.
         b.   No sign display shall have or consist of moving parts.
         c.   A sign located in direct line of vision of any traffic control
sign shall not have flashing or intermittent illumination of red, green, or
amber color.
         d.   Where a sign is illuminated by light reflected upon it, light
rays shall not beam directly upon any part of any residential building nor into
a Residential District or street.
   B.   Business Signs:
      1.   Size: The gross surface area in square feet of all signs on a lot
shall not exceed one times the linear feet of street frontage of such lot. On
corner lots or through lots, each lot line abutting a street shall be
considered a separate frontage. On a corner lot, only the lot line having the
narrowest width abutting a street shall be considered in calculating frontage.
This includes border and trim, but it excludes ornamental base or apron,
supports and other structural members. The maximum size limitation shall apply
to each side of a sign or sign structure.
      2.   Setback: A business not attached to a building shall be located not
less than twenty feet (20') from a right-of-way line abutting a street or five
feet (5') from a rear or interior side lot line.
      3.   Height:
         a.   A sign attached to a building wall shall project not more than
six feet (6') above the building height or thirty feet (30') above the ground,
whichever is lower. A sign projecting from a building wall more than eight
inches (8") shall have its lowest level not less than seven feet (7') above the
grade of the ground directly below it.
         b.   A sign not attached to a building wall shall project not more
than thirty feet (30') above average grade of the ground at the sign structure.
         c.   Any sign not attached to a building wall and which is located
nearer than fifty feet (50') from the intersection of two (2) or more streets
shall have the bottom of the display surface not less than twelve feet (12')
above either the grade of the ground or the pavement below it.
      4.   Number: Only one sign which is either affixed to or painted on a
building wall or a freestanding ground sign shall be permitted on any lot in
this district having eighty feet (80') or less of frontage on a street. On a
lot having more than eighty feet (80') of frontage, one additional sign shall
be permitted for each eighty feet (80') of additional frontage.
   C.   Advertising Signs:
      1.   For purposes of this section, an advertising sign is defined as a
sign containing information directing attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location other than
the premises on which the sign is located.
      2.   Advertising signs may be permitted only where allowed as a permitted
use in the zoning district in which it is located. (Ord. 16-03, 6-6-2016)
   D.   Unified Shopping Center Signs:
      1.   Size: The square footage of any sign shall not exceed twice the
linear feet of frontage of such lot.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than thirty feet (30') above
the grade of the ground below it.
      3.   Setback: Such sign shall be set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15')
from the right-of-way on a lot line adjoining a street.
      4.   Number: One sign on each street frontage in addition to those
described above.
      5.   Contents: Such sign shall advertise only the name and location of
the center or individual use and the name and type of business of each occupant
of the center.
   E.   Nameplates And Identification Signs (Nonflashing And Nonilluminated):
      1.   Size: Not more than six (6) square feet in area.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than fifteen feet (15') above
average grade.
      3.   Setback: No nearer than ten feet (10') from a right-of-way line
adjoining a street; no nearer than five feet (5') from an interior side or rear
lot line.
      4.   Number: One nameplate for each principal farm dwelling; on a corner
lot, two (2) such nameplates for each dwelling unit, one facing each street and
such additional signs as required for crop identification during the growing
season.
      5.   Contents: The name of the occupant, name and address of the building
on the lot, and specialized agricultural activity.
   F.   "For Sale" And "To Rent" Signs (Nonflashing And Nonilluminated):
      1.   Size: No sign shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than fifteen feet (15') above
average grade.
      3.   Setback: No nearer than ten feet (10') from a right-of-way line
adjoining a street; no nearer than five feet (5') from an interior side or rear
lot line.
      4.   Number: No more than one such sign per lot; except, that on a corner
lot, two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
      5.   Contents: Name, address, and phone number of agent. (Ord. 02-04, 6-
3-2002)
10-12-8-3: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Business Signs: Business signs as regulated within this section
10-12-8.
   B.   Industrial Parks Or Planned Unit Developments:
      1.   Size: The square footage of any sign shall not exceed twice the
linear feet of frontage of such lot.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than thirty feet (30') above
average grade.
      3.   Setback: Such a sign shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet
(20') from the front lot line of such industrial park or planned development.
      4.   Number: One additional sign on each street frontage, other than
those regulated above.
      5.   Contents: Such sign shall advertise only the name and location of
the industrial park or planned unit development and the name and type of
business of each occupant of the park.
   C.   Nameplate And Identification Signs: Nameplate and identification signs
as regulated within the Business Districts.
   D.   For Sale And To Rent Signs: For sale and to rent signs as regulated
within the Business Districts. (Ord. 02-04, 6-3-2002)
10-12-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following signs are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Memorial signs displayed on private property not exceeding six (6)
square feet in area.
   B.   Governmental flags and insignia, when not used for commercial purposes.
   C.   Legal notices.
   D.   Governmental traffic, parking, and directional signs. (Ord. 02-04, 6-3-
2002)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Zoning Permit; Certificate Of Occupancy
10-13-2: Nonconforming Structures
10-13-3: Nonconforming Uses
10-13-4: Additional Requirements For Nonconforming Structures And Uses
10-13-5: Substandard Lots
10-13-6: Variances
10-13-1: ZONING PERMIT; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A zoning permit shall be required for all lawful nonconforming uses of land and
buildings created by the adoption of this title, or a certificate of occupancy
may be authorized by the Village Board of Trustees for the Code Enforcement
Officer to require that nonconforming uses maintain valid certificates of
occupancy identifying them as nonconforming uses, as applicable. (Ord., 5-7-
1973)
10-13-2: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Maintenance: A nonconforming structure lawfully existing upon the
effective date hereof may be maintained, except as otherwise provided in this
section.
   B.   Repairs: A nonconforming structure may be repaired or altered provided
no structural change shall be made.
   C.   Additions, Enlargements Or Moving:
      1.   A structure nonconforming as to use, height, yard requirements or
lot area shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such structure,
including such addition or enlargement, is made to conform to the use, height,
yard, and area requirements of the district in which it is located.
      2.   No nonconforming structure shall be moved, in whole or in part, to
any other location on the lot on which it is located unless every portion of
such structure is made to conform to all the requirements of the district in
which it is located. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-13-3: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Continuation And Change Of Use: Except as otherwise provided in this
title:
      1.   A nonconforming use lawfully existing upon the effective date hereof
may be continued.
      2.   A nonconforming use may be changed only to a use of the same or more
restricted classification.
   B.   Expansion Of Use Prohibited:
      1.   A nonconforming use in a structure designed for a conforming use
shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such conforming
structure nor changed except to a conforming use.
      2.   A nonconforming use on a part of a lot shall not be expanded or
extended into any other portion of such lot. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-13-4: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Use: Whenever a nonconforming use has been
discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months, such use shall not thereafter
be reestablished, and the use thereafter shall conform to the provisions of
this title.
   B.   Damaged Structures: No building damaged by fire or other causes to the
extent that its restoration will cost more than sixty percent (60%) of its fair
cash value shall be repaired or rebuilt except to conform to the provisions of
this title.
   C.   Unattached Nonconforming Billboards Or Signs: Any nonconforming
billboard or advertising structure not attached to a building lawfully existing
upon the effective date hereof shall be discontinued on or before ten (10)
years after the effective date hereof unless a discontinuance date has been
established by a prior zoning ordinance, in which case, such prior date of
discontinuance shall apply. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-13-5: SUBSTANDARD LOTS:
In any Residential District, a one-family detached dwelling and its accessory
structures may be erected on any legal lot or parcel of record which was
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds before the effective
date hereof or amendment hereto. Such lot or parcel must have been in separate
ownership from abutting lands on the said effective date hereof or amendment
hereto. If abutting lands and the substandard lot are owned on that date by the
same owner, the substandard lot shall not be sold or used without full
compliance with the provisions of this title. If in separate ownership, there
shall be compliance with all the district requirements insofar as practical.
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall interpret the requirements to be followed in
such cases upon request of the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-13-6: VARIANCES:
The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize, upon appeals in specific cases, such
variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the
spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done;
provided, however, that no action shall be taken or decision made except after
a public hearing. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 14
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Introduction; Use Categories
10-14-2: Planned Developments
10-14-3: Conditional Uses
10-14-1: INTRODUCTION; USE CATEGORIES:
Conditional uses, as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, are those which cannot be adequately controlled by simple
preregulations through rigid dimensional and use standards. Conditional uses
are those which require individual review by the Planning Commission and
Village Board of Trustees to ensure conformance with the intent of all
comprehensive plan elements. Conditional uses include the following basic
categories:
   A.   Planned Development Projects: Complex projects designed to take maximum
advantage of unique site characteristics and potentials along with original
design and use concepts and submitted for review under the planned development
procedure.
   B.   Conditional Uses: Single uses or single aspects of permitted uses
specifically identified in this title as requiring individual review under the
conditional use procedure. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-14-2: PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Intent: The planned development procedure is intended to provide a
single uniform procedure for total review of a proposed development, both
design and use. The procedure combines the design review procedure of
subdivision approval and the use review procedure of zoning amendments, and
enables the Planning Commission to review all aspects of a proposed development
simultaneously to permit greater flexibility and originality in concept
according to the intent of comprehensive plan elements and still to exercise
greater final control over the approved development than is possible through
preregulated zoning districts.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   Design Standards: Because the design standards for use, dimensions,
density, and qualitative attributes are subject to evolution through continuous
plan review, they are not included as an integral part of the unchanging
planned development procedure. This title refers to the officially adopted
policies, detailed area plans, and all other elements of the evolving
comprehensive plan for the standards to guide the approval of planned
development projects. A planned development project may depart from conformance
with the dimension, area, and use regulations for the standard zoning
districts, and from conformance with the design standards in the Village
subdivision regulations. However, a planned development project shall conform
with all applicable elements of the officially adopted comprehensive plan.
      2.   Required Improvements: Planned development projects shall be subject
to the regulations governing required improvements found in the Village
subdivision regulations.
      3.   Traffic, Parking, Loading And Access: Planned development projects
shall be subject to the regulations for traffic, parking, loading, and access
of this title.
      4.   Special Conditions: The Planning Commission may attach special
conditions to approval of the final plats to ensure conformance with the intent
of all official plan elements.
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.   A planned development project may be permitted only by amendment
to the Zoning Map according to the amendment procedure of section
10-3-6 of this title.
         b.   The Village subdivision regulations shall be followed in its
entirety whether the development shall be in single or divided ownership.
      2.   Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat of the planned development
project shall be submitted as required by the Village subdivision regulations.
It is recommended that this submission be preceded by preapplication
conferences, as recommended by said subdivision regulations to determine
whether the developer's intent agrees with the intent expressed by all
comprehensive plan elements. Additional supporting material beyond that
required by the Village subdivision regulations for the preliminary plat shall
include:
         a.   Explanation of the character of the planned development and the
manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the flexibility of
these regulations.
         b.   Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within
the project.
         c.   Development schedule indicating:
            (1)   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities such as open space to be developed with each
stage. Overall design of each stage shall be shown on the plat and through
supporting graphic material.
            (2)   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
            (3)   Agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the
use, maintenance, and continued protection of the planned development and any
of its common open space.
      3.   Amendment Procedure: The amendment procedure established in section
10-3-6 of this title shall be initiated after conditional approval of the
preliminary plat by the Planning Commission. Under this procedure, the Zoning
Map may be amended to designate the location proposed in the preliminary plat
as a Planned Development District superseding the original zoning district. The
amendment shall be in conformance with all comprehensive plan elements. The
Planned Development District shall be valid only for that preliminary plat and
supporting material upon which the amendment was based. All supporting material
shall remain on file with the preliminary plat.
      4.   Final Plats:
         a.   If the amendment is approved, final plats shall be prepared for
each stage according to the development schedule. The final plat and supporting
material shall show in detail and design and use of all the buildings and
overall land development plans, as well as such other information the Planning
Commission may require for the complete consideration of the project, in
addition to information required by the Village subdivision regulations.
         b.   The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat and
supporting material; except, that the Planning Commission may approve minor
changes without public hearing at this time which do not change the concept or
intent of the development.
         c.   Major changes, which are changes in density, height of buildings,
reduction of proposed open space, changes in the financing, development
schedule, or final governing agreements, provisions, or covenants, or
resubdivision, may be approved only by submission of a new preliminary plat or
applicable supporting material followed by the amendment procedure.
      5.   Continuing Control:
         a.   The planned development project shall be developed only according
to the approved and recorded final plat and all supporting material. The
recorded final plat and supporting material, together with all recorded
amendments, shall be binding on the applicants, their successors, and assigns
and shall limit and control the uses of premises and the location of structures
in the planned development project.
         b.   Minor changes in the final plat during or after construction
shall be accompanied by submission of a new preliminary plat followed by the
amendment procedure.
         c.   The Planning Commission shall consider the planned development
amendment, subject to revocations, if construction falls more than one year
behind schedule.
      6.   Fees And Permits:
         a.   The Village may establish a schedule of reasonable fees to be
charged for plat review.
         b.   Zoning permits shall be required for each structure according to
section
10-3-2 of this title. The Code Enforcement Officer shall base issuance upon
conformance with the final plat and supporting material. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-14-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Procedure: In applying for conditional use approval, the applicant
shall follow all procedures set forth in section
10-3-2 of this title on zoning permits. The Code Enforcement Officer shall
refer the application to the Planning Commission, and the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing on the application. The Planning Commission may
approve, modify, or disapprove the application. In the case of approval or
approval with modification, the Planning Commission shall issue written
authorization to the Code Enforcement Officer to issue a zoning permit in full
conformance with section
10-3-2 of this title. This authorization shall remain on permanent file with
the application. The Planning Commission may attach special conditions to
ensure conformance with the intent of all comprehensive plan elements. The
commission may establish a schedule of reasonable fees to be charged for
conditional use approval.
   B.   Conditional Uses In All Districts: The following are designated as
conditional uses which may be approved in all zoning districts: public utility
and service uses such as electric substations, gas regulator stations,
telephone transmission; structure, radio, television, and microwave relay
towers; water reservoirs or pumping stations; sanitary landfills; government
buildings; transportation facilities; and similar uses.
   C.   Conditional Uses In Specified Districts: Other conditional uses may be
approved in only those zoning districts where they are designated as
conditional uses under the zoning district regulations. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 15
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Special Regulations In Manufacturing Districts
10-15-2: Smoke And Particulate Matter
10-15-3: Toxic Matter In The M-1 And M-2 Districts
10-15-4: Odorous Matter
10-15-5: Fire And Explosive Hazards
10-15-1: SPECIAL REGULATIONS IN MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Prohibited Uses In All Manufacturing Districts: The following uses are
prohibited in all Manufacturing Districts whether or not they meet the
performance standards:
Crematories.
Dumping, reduction or other processing of garbage, dead animals, offal or
refuse, except as customarily incidental to a permitted principal use.
Fireworks or explosive manufacture or storage.
Junk shops, junkyards or automobile wrecking yards.
Stockyards or slaughter of animals or fowl.
Tanning, curing, or storage of rawhides or skins.
   B.   Restrictions Regarding Explosives:
      1.   No activities involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products which decompose of detonation shall be permitted; except,
that these activities customarily incidental to the operation of permitted
principal use may be permitted by a variation by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Such materials shall be stored, utilized and manufactured in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations of the Village and the State of Illinois.
      2.   Such materials shall include, but shall not be confined to:
All high explosives such as TNT, RDX, HMX, PETN, and picric acid, propellants
and components thereof such as dry nitrocellulose, black powder, baron
hydrides, hydrazine, and its derivatives.
All primary explosives such as lead azide, lead styphnate, fulminates, and
tetracenes.
Blasting explosives such as dynamite and nitroglycerine.
Nuclear fuels, fissionable materials and products, and reactor elements such as
uranium 235 and plutonium 239.
Pyrotechnics and fireworks such as magnesium powder, potassium chlorate, and
potassium nitrate.
Strong oxidizing agents such as liquid oxygen, perchloric acid, perchlorates,
chlorates, and hydrogen peroxide in concentrations greater than thirty five
percent (35%).
Unstable organic compounds such as acetylides, tetrazoles, and ozonides.
   C.   M-1 Industrial District: The following regulations apply in the M-
1 Industrial District:
      1.   All processing shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings.
      2.   Storage of materials, products and goods is permitted within
completely enclosed buildings or outdoors if screened completely from public
view or not detrimental to the aesthetic condition of the area.
      3.   Outdoor storage of uncontained bulk materials is prohibited.
   D.   M-2 Industrial District: The following regulations apply in the M-
2 Industrial District:
      1.   Processing and storage of materials, products, and goods is
permitted within completely enclosed buildings or outdoors if screened properly
from public view.
      2.   Outdoor storage of uncontained bulk materials is prohibited within
twenty feet (20') of property lines.
   E.   Compliance With Provisions: Any use established in a Manufacturing
District shall be operated in such a manner as to comply with the applicable
performance standards as hereinafter set forth governing noise, vibration,
smoke, toxic matter, odors, fire and explosive hazards, and glare. No use
already established on the effective date hereof shall be so altered or
modified as to conflict with or further conflict with the applicable
performance standards for the district in which such use is located. (Ord., 5-
7-1973)
10-15-2: SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER:
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   The emission of smoke or particulate matter in such manner or
quantity as to endanger or be detrimental to the public health, safety,
comfort, or welfare is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall not be
permitted in any Manufacturing District.
      2.   For the purpose of grading the density or equivalent opacity of
smoke, the Ringelmann Chart described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information
Circular 6888 shall be employed. The emission of smoke or particulate matter of
a density or equivalent opacity greater than no. 1 on the Ringelmann Chart is
prohibited at all times except as otherwise provided hereinafter.
      3.   Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards, roads, and the like, within lot boundaries,
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling, fencing,
wetting, or other acceptable means.
      4.   The open burning of refuse, paint, oil, debris, and any other
combustible material is prohibited in all Industrial Districts.
      5.   No operation shall result in the emission into the open air from any
process or control equipment, or in the measurement at any convenient measuring
point in a breeching or stack of particulate matter in the gases that exceeds
0.60 pound per thousand pounds of gases during any one hour.
      6.   Particulate matter loadings in pounds per acre described below shall
be determined by selecting a continuous four-hour period which will result in
the highest average emission rate.
   B.   M-1 Industrial District: The following regulations apply in the M-
1 Industrial District:
      1.   The emission of smoke having a density or equivalent opacity in
excess of Ringelmann no. 1 is prohibited. However, for two (2) minutes in any
four-hour period, smoke up to and including Ringelmann no. 2 shall be
permitted.
      2.   The rate of emission of particulate matter from all vents and stacks
within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed 0.2 pound per acre of lot
area during any one hour.
   C.   M-2 Industrial District: The following regulations apply in the M-
2 Industrial District:
      1.   The emission of smoke having a density or equivalent opacity in
excess of Ringelmann no. 2 is prohibited. However, for two (2) minutes in any
four-hour period, smoke up to and including Ringelmann no. 3 shall be
permitted.
      2.   The rate of emission of particulate matter from all stacks and vents
within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed one pound per acre of lot
area during any one hour. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-15-3: TOXIC MATTER IN THE M-1 AND M-2 DISTRICTS:
The following regulations apply in the M-1 and M-2 Industrial Districts:
   A.   The release of airborne toxic matter (including radioactive matter)
shall not exceed one-thirtieth (1/30) of the maximum permissible concentration
allowed an industrial worker when measured at any point beyond the lot line,
either at ground level or habitable elevation, whichever is more restrictive.
Concentrations shall be measured and calculated as the highest average that
will occur over a continuous twenty four-hour period.
   B.   If a toxic substance is not contained in the most recent listing of
threshold limit values published by the American Conference of Governmental
Industrial Hygienists, the applicant shall satisfy the local County Health
Department that the proposed levels will be safe to the general population.
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
10-15-4: ODOROUS MATTER:
   A.   General Regulations: The release of materials capable of becoming
odorous, either by bacterial decomposition or chemical reaction, shall meet the
standards of the district in which the odor is created.
   B.   M-1 Industrial District: When odorous matter is released from any
operation, activity, or use in the M-1 Industrial District, the concentration
of such odorous materials shall not exceed the odor threshold when measured
beyond the lot line, either at ground level or habitable elevation. (Ord., 5-7-
1973)
10-15-5: FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS:
   A.   In all Manufacturing Districts, the storage, utilization, or
manufacture of solid materials or products ranging from incombustible to
moderate burning is permitted.
   B.   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or products
ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted, provided
either of the following conditions is met:
      1.   Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized, or
manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior
walls and protected with an automatic fire extinguishing system.
      2.   Said material, if stored outdoors, will be no less than fifty feet
(50') to the nearest lot line. (Ord., 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 16
APPENDICES
SECTION:
10-16-1: Appendix A, Yards
10-16-1: APPENDIX A, YARDS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/702bcf0c42692cd16fd0de8eeb200be34af722f2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1133.gif]
 
(Ord., 5-7-1973)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose And Jurisdiction
11-1-2: Platting And Compliance Required
11-1-3: Acceptance Of Public Ways, Lands And Uses
11-1-4: Liability For Costs
11-1-5: Approvals, Interpretations And Exceptions
11-1-6: Violations; Penalties
11-1-1: PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION:
For the purpose and development of the Village and for the promotion of the
public health and safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the persons living
within the area governed by the Village, the provisions and regulations herein
contained shall apply to and govern the subdivision and platting of lands lying
within the corporate limits of the Village and shall also govern the
subdivision and platting of lands lying within contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-1-2: PLATTING AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Whenever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within the
incorporated limits of the Village or within the surrounding territory not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the
Village, the subdivider thereof or his agent shall submit both a preliminary
and a final subdivision plan to the Village. Said plans, proposed improvements,
and all procedures relating thereto shall in all respects be in full compliance
with the regulations contained in this title. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-1-3: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC WAYS, LANDS AND USES:
All lands offered to the Village for use as streets, highways, alleys, parks
and other public use shall be referred to the Village Board of Trustees for
review and acceptance. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-1-4: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
It shall be understood that the developer and concerned utility companies shall
assume all costs for the planning and development of any and all subdivisions.
The Village shall not participate in any costs. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-1-5: APPROVALS, INTERPRETATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No land shall, after the effective date hereof, be subdivided or filed
for record, nor any street laid out, nor any improvements made to the land,
until the plan or plans of the subdivision or street improvements shall have
been duly considered and approved by action of the Village Board of Trustees.
This approval must be in writing and placed on the original tracing of the
final plans, according to the procedure outlined in chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be offered
for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or given
until such subdivision plans have been properly reviewed and officially
approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
   C.   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage,
sewage facilities, gas service, electric service, lighting, grading, paving or
surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made within any such subdivision by any
owner or owners or his or their agent until the plans for the subdivision and
the plans for improvements thereto have been reviewed and approved by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   D.   Subdivision of land lying outside of the Village and within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the Village limits shall also be required to conform
with the requirements herein in accordance with the provisions of the "Revised
Cities and Villages Act" of the State of Illinois.
   E.   All interpretations of these rules and regulations are reserved to the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
   F.   The Village Board of Trustees may vary and make exceptions as set forth
herein in instances where there is sufficient evidence, in its opinion, of
hardship caused by topographic conditions or where any other reasonable
deterrents prevail.
   G.   Whenever a parcel is divided into lots containing one to five (5)
acres, inclusive, and there are indications that such lots will eventually be
resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the
street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor
streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
(Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-1-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person, firm or corporation found to be
violating any provision of this title shall be served by the Village with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided in subsection A of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991; amd. 2019
Code)
   C.   Liability For Costs And Damages: Any person, firm or corporation
violating any of the provisions of this title shall become liable to the
Village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the Village by reason of
such violation. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in
the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is
permissive.
   C.   The word "building" shall include the word "structure", and the word
"lot" shall include the word "plot". (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A public right-of-way, used primarily for vehicular traffic, along the
side of or in the rear of properties which affords only a secondary means of
access to these properties.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets, and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of- way, bulkhead lines or shorelines
of waterways, or corporate boundary lines of the Village.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
equipment, machinery, or materials.
BUILDING LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land so designated on the
plat of the proposed subdivision, between which and the adjacent boundary of
the street or side upon which the lot abuts, the erection of an enclosed
structure or portion thereof is to be prohibited.
CROSSWALK: A strip of land dedicated to public use which is reserved across a
block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
LOT: A single parcel of land which may be legally described as such or two (2)
or more adjacent numbered lots or parts of such lots in a recorded subdivision
plat having principal frontage on a street which comprises a site occupied by,
or intended for occupancy by, one principal use, together with accessory
buildings and uses, yards and other open spaces required by this title.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
(2) substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
primary streets and highways and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast, through moving traffic on the
primary streets.
MINOR STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
OFFICIAL MAP: The approved Official Map of the Village of Chebanse, Illinois.
PARKWAY: A route intended to be used primarily by passenger vehicles and whose
right-of-way is or is intended to be developed in a parklike character.
PLAT: A plan, map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of the
subdivision is presented and which he submits for approval and intends to
record in final form.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawings and documents presented for final approval and as
described in chapter 4 of this title.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY (GENERAL PLAN): The drawings and documents presented for
conditional approval and as described in chapter 4 of this title.
PRIMARY OR MAJOR STREET: A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery connecting large areas.
PROTECTIVE SCREEN PLANTING: A planting of trees, shrubs and/or evergreens
bordering an area intended to reduce and/or eliminate the nuisance of sound and
sight of adjoining uses.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any improvement for the benefit of the public, financed and
executed by any interest, public or private.
PUBLIC STREET: All primary, secondary and minor streets which are shown on the
subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
ROADWAY: The paved area for vehicular traffic existing on a street right-of-way
and not the street right-of-way width.
SECONDARY OR COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance streets
of a residence development and streets for circulation within such development.
STREET: An area which serves, or is intended to serve, as a vehicular and
pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
public street.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
SUBDIVIDER: The person or persons, group or corporation acting as a unit, or
any agent thereof, responsible for preparing and recording the plats of the
subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements relating thereto
as outlined in this title.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more parts, any of which is
less than five (5) acres, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development, including all public streets,
alleys, ways for public service facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds
or other public grounds, and all the tracts, parcels, lots or blocks, and
numbering of all such lots, blocks or parcels by progressive numbers, giving
their precise dimensions; provided, however, that the following shall not be
considered a subdivision and shall be exempt from the requirements herein:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access.
   B.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land.
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not
involve any new streets or easements of access.
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use.
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
   H.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land existing on October
7, 1991, into no more than two (2) parts and not involving any new street or
easements of access.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
Municipal engineering matters.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Whenever the words "Board",
"Trustees", "Village Board of Trustees", or "Village Board" are used in this
title, they shall mean the Village President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Chebanse, Illinois.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of the Village of Chebanse, Illinois.
(Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Design Standards For Public Ways
11-3-2: Sewer System
11-3-3: Water System
11-3-4: Street And Area Lighting
11-3-5: Easements
11-3-1: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WAYS:
The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade and location of all streets, alleys or other land to be dedicated for
public use, shall conform to accepted and general Municipal practices and to
the Official Map of the Village as approved and adopted by the Village Board;
and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991; amd. 2019 Code)
   A.   Location Of Streets And Walks:
      1.   Each lot or parcel of ground within a new subdivision shall be
adjacent to a public street.
      2.   The street system in each new subdivision shall continue and extend
existing connecting streets in adjoining subdivisions except minor streets
across a major intervening street where such continuation or extension is not
necessary to protect the interests of the public.
      3.   The street system in each new subdivision shall be extended and
dedicated to any adjacent unsubdivided property except in those instances in
which the adjacent property is not capable of being subdivided.
      4.   No street shall be located less than three hundred forty feet (340')
from any parallel street measured at the centerline of the streets, and the
other two (2) streets completing the block shall not be more than one thousand
three hundred twenty feet (1,320') measured at the centerlines of the streets,
except in those instances in which the topography of the land being subdivided
or the physical situation of that land, in the opinion of the Village Board,
makes such a street arrangement impractical.
      5.   Whenever two (2) parallel streets are located more than seven
hundred fifty feet (750') apart, a public walk having a right-of-way of not
less than ten feet (10') in width shall be provided for pedestrian travel to
schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, and other community facilities. Each
such public walk shall be located approximately equal distances between the two
(2) parallel streets and shall not contain any offsets from one street to the
other. These public walks shall be lighted in accordance with section
11-3-4 of this chapter.
      6.   No private streets will be permitted except for special developments
as may be set forth in the Village zoning ordinance.
      7.   Where a proposed subdivision borders on a present or proposed
Federal, State or limited access highway, traffic service to the proposed
subdivision bordering such highway shall be provided by a marginal access
street. Access to these types of highways from the marginal access street or
proposed subdivision proper shall be at one-half (1/2) mile intervals, unless
the proposed subdivision frontage is less than one-half (1/2) mile, in which
case, the proposed subdivision shall have only one access point to the highway
at a location recommended by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
The marginal access street shall be approximately parallel to and at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land for platted lots
facing the marginal access street, or for parkway purposes in Residential
Districts, or for parking in Commercial or Industrial Districts. Such distances
shall be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and
possible future grade separations.
      8.   Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of every street facing
lots in accordance with applicable regulations of the Village for the
construction of public sidewalks.
      9.   All public walks designed for pedestrian travel shall be improved
with not less than four inches (4") of portland cement concrete pavement to a
width not less than four feet (4'), except where a greater thickness is
required by the regulations of the Village for the construction of public
sidewalks, there must be compliance with such regulations (see section
11-5-1 of this title for figure).
   B.   Design Of Streets:
      1.   The minimum width of right-of-way for streets shall be as follows:
         a.   Major streets, being those streets used primarily for through
traffic including those designated as such by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village, shall conform to the specifications shown in the current Highway
Standards and/or Design Manual, both published by the Department of
Transportation of the State of Illinois, and as the same may be hereafter
amended, but under no condition will the right- of-way be less than eighty feet
(80'). These current Highway Standards and Design Manual and any revisions or
amendments which may from time to time be made are hereby adopted and made a
part of this section to the same extent and with the same legal effects as if
fully set forth herein.
         b.   All other streets, including those designated by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village as secondary or nonarterial streets, shall be
platted to a width of not less than sixty feet (60').
      2.   Whenever a street in a new subdivision is a continuation of an
existing street in an adjoining subdivision and the right-of-way of the
existing street is less than the applicable width prescribed in subsection B1
of this section, then the narrower right-of-way may be continued into the new
subdivision if the interests of the public are not adversely affected.
      3.   Whenever a street in a new subdivision is a permanent street and is
not and cannot be continued to another street, the street shall be provided
with a permanent turnaround, the right-of-way for which shall be not less than
one hundred feet (100') in diameter.
      4.   In each instance in which the subdivider owns the land on both sides
of a proposed street, the entire right-of-way for the street shall be dedicated
by the subdivider.
      5.   When a new subdivision adjoins a dedicated half street in an
existing subdivision, the subdivider shall dedicate the remainder of the
street.
      6.   In those instances in which the owner or owners of a new subdivision
own the land on only one side of an existing street, the right-of-way of which
is narrower than that required by subsection B1 of this section, the subdivider
shall dedicate additional right-of-way of sufficient width to make that portion
of the right-of-way lying between the centerline of the existing right-of-way
and the outside edge of the additional right-of-way at least equal to one-half
(1/2) the required right-of-way width.
      7.   Major streets may be designed with gradual curves having a
centerline radius of at least five hundred feet (500') except where a lesser
radius is deemed safe and adequate to serve the public needs. All other streets
may be designed with gradual curves having a centerline radius of at least one
hundred fifty feet (150') except where a lesser radius is deemed safe and
adequate to serve the public needs. No streets shall be laid out with jogs
having centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty five feet (125').
      8.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a maximum length of three hundred feet (300')
measured from the centerline of the intersecting street to the center of the
turnaround unless the topography of the land being subdivided or the physical
situation of that land makes such a restriction impractical.
   C.   Location And Design Of Alleys:
      1.   Alleys shall be provided for lots or parcels of ground intended for
business, commercial, or industrial uses unless the development plan for such
eliminates their need.
      2.   Alleys may be provided for all lots or parcels of ground intended
for multiple-family residential use.
      3.   No alley shall be provided for lots intended for one- and two-family
residential uses.
      4.   The minimum width of right-of-way for alleys shall be as follows:
         a.   Alleys to serve business, commercial or industrial uses: Twenty
four feet (24').
         b.   Alleys to serve multiple-family residential area only: Twenty
feet (20').
      5.   No dead end alleys will be permitted.
      6.   No private alleys will be permitted.
   D.   Names Of Streets And Alleys:
      1.   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with or
continuations of existing streets already named shall bear the same name as the
existing streets. In no case shall the name of the proposed new street
duplicate the name of an existing street in the Village.
      2.   Alleys shall not be named.
   E.   Construction Of Streets, Alleys And Walks:
      1.   The grades of major streets shall not be steeper than three percent
(3.0%). The grades of all other streets shall not be steeper than five percent
(5.0%). No tangent street grades shall be less than 0.4 percent.
      2.   All streets other than existing streets, all alleys and all public
walks for pedestrian travel shall be graded and the surface thereof improved as
herein provided (see section
11-5-1 of this title for figure). Street improvements shall be bounded by
combination curbs and gutters (see sections
11-5-1 and
11-5-2 of this title for figures).
      3.   The minimum width of improved areas of streets shall be as follows:
         a.   Major streets: Width as shown in the current Highway Standards
and/or Design Manual of the Department of Transportation of the State of
Illinois. The current Highway Standards and Design Manual are referred to in
subsection B1a of this section, and the adopting clause is applied equally to
this subsection E3a. See also subsection E5 of this section.
         b.   All other streets: See subsection E6 of this section, and see
section
11-5-1 of this title for figure.
         c.   The outside diameter of the surfaced area of the permanent
turnaround at the end of a cul-de-sac shall not be less than eighty feet (80').
      4.   The minimum width of improved areas of alleys shall be as follows:
         a.   Alleys to serve business, commercial and industrial areas or
uses: Twenty feet (20').
         b.   Alleys to serve multiple-family areas or uses: Sixteen feet
(16').
      5.   Pavements for major streets and streets in areas intended for
business, commercial or industrial uses shall be constructed with either
portland cement concrete or bituminous concrete in accordance with existing
specifications of the Department of Transportation of the State of Illinois.
The pavements for these streets shall be designed in accordance with the
appropriate section or sections of the Design Manual, the Highway Design
Standards or Flexible Pavement Design, all three (3) as published by the
Department of Transportation of the State of Illinois. The designer shall, with
assistance from the Department of Transportation and Village Engineer, estimate
the type and number of vehicles per day for a design period of twenty (20)
years from which the pavement structure thickness and the pavement width will
be determined. Alley pavements to serve business, commercial and industrial
areas shall conform to major street pavement requirements. In the absence of
adequate soil analysis, a soil support (IBR) value of 2.0 shall be used.
      6.   All other streets shall be designed and constructed in the same
manner as designated in subsection E5 of this section; except, that the minimum
thickness shall be three inches (3") of asphaltic concrete laid in two (2)
courses, upon an aggregate base eight inches (8") in thickness, or a lime
stabilized base ten inches (10") in thickness, or an unreinforced portland
cement concrete pavement seven inches (7") in thickness. (See section
11-5-1 of this title for figure.)
      7.   All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty feet
(20'), and at intersections involving major streets, such radii shall be not
less than twenty five feet (25').
      8.   All public walks designed for pedestrian travel shall be improved
with not less than four inches (4") of portland cement concrete pavement to a
width of at least four feet (4') (see section
11-5-1 of this title for figure). (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
      9.   All streets shall be provided with catch basins and underground
drainage facilities having a design capacity adequate to carry off surface
water falling or coming on the streets in a 5-year storm as that term is used
in publications of the State Water Survey, Illinois Department of Natural
Resources, Office of Water Resources (IDNR/OWR). Sufficient inlets shall be
provided so that no pavement is designed to allow water to drain across the
crown of an intersecting street or is carried in the gutter for more than four
hundred feet (400'). Storm sewer systems shall be constructed with bell and
spigot or tongue and groove pipe of such type as required to provide adequate
strength for the load to be carried. The proposed storm sewer system must be in
conformance with the "Proposed Storm Sewer System for Chebanse, Illinois",
which is on file with the Village Clerk, and as approved by the Village
Engineer. For further stormwater handling design criteria, see article A of
this chapter. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991; amd. 2019 Code)
      10.   The subdivider shall notify the Village Clerk and the Village
inspector in advance of the date construction of the required improvements will
begin.
      11.   No plan of any subdivision shall be finally approved by the Village
Board of Trustees until:
         a.   A copy of the plans and specifications for the required street,
alley and public walk improvements, including street drainage, has been filed
with and approved by the Village Board of Trustees. The plans and
specifications shall meet the minimum design standards that are on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk.
         b.   The improvements (including the street drainage) have actually
been constructed in accordance with such plans and specifications or a surety
bond payable to the Village in a penal sum equal to at least fifty dollars
($50.00) per linear foot of street pavement, conditioned upon the construction
of the improvements in full conformity with the plans and specifications within
two (2) years from the date thereof, and with surety thereon satisfactory to
the Village President and Board of Trustees, has been filed with the Village
Clerk. Any bond so given to guarantee the construction of any such improvement
may be released by the Village President and Board of Trustees only after
receiving a written statement from the Village Clerk that the improvement has
been constructed and that the certificate of a registered professional engineer
as required in subsection E11c of this section has been received.
         c.   A certificate of a registered professional engineer employed by
the subdivider is filed with the Village Clerk certifying that the required
improvements were inspected during actual construction by such registered
professional engineer or some competent person acting under his direction and
that such improvements have been constructed in accordance with the aforesaid
plans and specifications; or in the event the subdivider files a bond as
provided in subsection E11b of this section, provision guaranteeing such
inspection during construction as required herein and the furnishing of the
aforesaid certificate of the registered professional engineer upon completion
of construction of the required improvements. In the event the engineer
employed by the subdivider is discharged before completion of the required
improvements, an amendment to the existing bond naming the new registered
professional engineer shall be filed with the Village and approved before
proceeding any further with the construction of the required improvements.
      12.   A four-way metal street sign shall be erected at each street
intersection. Such signs shall conform to the specifications on file in the
Village Clerk's Office.
      13.   All lot corners shall be monumented by at least a one- half inch
(1/2") diameter round or one-half inch (1/2") square iron rod or one-half inch
(1/2") iron pipe at least thirty inches (30") long set on the lot corner. All
lot corners that may have been disturbed or lost during construction of streets
and sewers shall be replaced at the expense of the subdivider. All block
corners, beginning and ending of all curves on curved streets or angle points
in streets, shall be monumented with a permanent monument set in a concrete
post; the concrete post having a minimum cross section of a four inch (4")
diameter circle. This monument shall be set sufficiently below the surface of
the ground to make its disturbance unlikely. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-3-2: SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   Public System:
      1.   No plat of any new subdivision shall be approved by the Village
Board of Trustees unless the same provides for, and assures the construction by
the subdivider of, a sanitary sewage collection system which shall be adequate
to serve the needs of the entire subdivision when the same is fully developed.
The location and design of the system shall be approved by the Village Board of
Trustees and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      2.   No plat of any new subdivision shall be approved by the Village
Board of Trustees unless the same provides for and assures adequate treatment
of all sewage for the entire subdivision when the same is fully developed. The
location and design of the treatment facilities, if other than that provided by
the Village, shall be approved by the Village Board of Trustees and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   B.   Private System:
      1.   If the developer requests approval for the use of individual septic
tanks as a method of treatment, the developer shall provide percolation test
data at a minimum frequency of one test hole for each lot in the approximate
areas of the proposed absorption field. The use of such septic tanks as a
method of treatment must be approved by the Village Board of Trustees and the
Kankakee County or Iroquois County Health Department and, if approved, shall be
installed using the latest plans and specifications on file with the Kankakee
County or Iroquois County Health Department.
      2.   If the developer's request for use of individual septic tanks is
granted, the developer shall provide a set of preliminary plans for a sewage
collection system that will adequately serve the needs for the entire
development. These preliminary plans shall show locations of manholes,
cleanouts, sewer line sizes, flow line elevations with grades and all other
information that is normally shown on such a preliminary plan. (Ord. 91-6, 10-
7-1991)
11-3-3: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   System Required; Location And Design: No plat of any new subdivision
shall be approved by the Village Board of Trustees unless the same provides for
and assures the construction by the subdivider of a water distribution system
which will be adequate to serve the needs of the entire subdivision when the
same is fully developed; except, that no water main shall be less than six
inches (6") in diameter. The location and design of the system shall be
approved by the Village Board of Trustees, the Village Engineer and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. The water distribution system shall
be in conformance with the "Proposed Water System Improvements for Chebanse,
Illinois", which is on file with the Village Clerk.
   B.   Hydrants: The developer shall provide fire hydrants of the type and
style now in use by the Village throughout the entire subdivision with one fire
hydrant at each street intersection and others spaced not more than four
hundred feet (400') apart or as approved by the Village Board of Trustees and/
or the Village Fire Department or Fire Marshal.
   C.   Valves And Valve Boxes: The developer shall provide valves with valve
boxes throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner that large sections of
the subdivision need not be shut down while repairs in other locations within
the development are being carried out.
   D.   As Built Plans: Upon completion of the installation of the water
distribution system, a set of as built plans shall be filed with the Village
Clerk. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-3-4: STREET AND AREA LIGHTING:
   A.   No plat of any new subdivision will be approved by the Village
President and Board of Trustees unless same provides for street (area) lighting
by any of the following means:
      1.   By use of luminaires which shall be either mercury vapor or sodium
vapor. The poles shall be polished aluminum with aluminum bracket arms. The
poles shall be spaced approximately two hundred fifty feet (250') apart such
that the average horizontal foot-candles shall be a minimum of 0.2. The design
and installation shall be in accordance with the current minimum standards as
set forth by the American Society of Illuminating Engineers. Wooden poles will
not be allowed nor will bracket arms secured to existing wooden utility poles
be allowed.
      2.   By requiring in covenants covering the subdivision that the owners
of every lot shall erect and maintain one yard light located in the front yard.
Each yard light shall be approximately six feet (6') in height, be equipped
with a photoelectric cell that illuminates the light during the hours of
darkness and be such that a seventy five (75) to one hundred (100) watt
incandescent light bulb can be safely used.
      3.   Any other means which is in accordance with current minimum
standards as set forth by the American Society of Illuminating Engineers.
   B.   Final selection for lighting is to be approved by the Village President
and Board of Trustees.
   C.   Upon completion of the installation of the street (area) lighting
system, a set of as built plans shall be filed with the Village Clerk. If
street (area) lighting is to be provided by individual front yard lights, as
built plans will not be required. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-3-5: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Nature Gas Main Easements:
      1.   No plat of any new subdivision will be approved by the Village Board
of Trustees unless the same provides for the necessary easements, if the
proposed street rights-of-way are not being utilized, for the installation of
natural gas mains. The developer shall provide the Village President and Board
of Trustees plans for these gas mains as proposed by the gas utility company.
      2.   Upon completion of the installation of the natural gas mains, a set
of as built plans shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
   B.   Electric, Telephone And Cable TV Easements:
      1.   No plat of any new subdivision will be approved by the Village
President and Board of Trustees unless the same provides for the necessary
easements for the installation of underground electricity, underground
telephone service, underground cable TV service or any other utility not
previously covered in this title. The developer shall provide the Village Board
of Trustees plans for these underground utilities as proposed by the utility
company. Aerial facilities will not be allowed for electric, telephone or cable
TV facilities.
      2.   Upon completion of the installation of the underground electric,
telephone, cable TV, etc., a set of as built plans for each utility shall be
filed with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
ARTICLE A. STORMWATER CONTROL
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Definitions
11-3A-2: Compliance With Village Guidelines
11-3A-3: Standards Of Determining Adequacy Of Stormwater Control
11-3A-4: Stormwater Management Policy Guidelines
11-3A-4-1: Purpose, Intent And Interpretation
11-3A-4-2: Scope
11-3A-4-3: Technical Requirements
11-3A-4-4: General Requirements
11-3A-4-5: Submittals
11-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, as used in this article, shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
DETENTION FACILITIES: Facilities that provide for temporary storage of
stormwater runoff in basins, on rooftops, in parking lots, in lakes, in ponds,
or in other areas, and which control the release of this runoff with the
appropriately installed device during and after a flood or storm.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Water and water carried wastes normally discharged into the
sanitary sewers from dwellings, including single-family homes, multiple-family
homes and hotels, from office buildings, factories and institutions, but not
including stormwater drainage or surface water drainage and not including
industrial wastes, as defined in this section.
DRY BOTTOM DETENTION STORAGE: A detention facility that is designed to be
normally dry and which accumulates excess stormwater during a flood or storm.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental user of the Village sewage system,
including agriculture, forestry, fishing, mining, manufacturing,
transportation, communication, electric, gas and sanitary services and any
other industrial services discharging into the Village sanitary sewer system
any industrial waste, or discharging into the Village sanitary sewer system any
wastes other than domestic sewage, as defined in this section.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: All water, water carried solids, liquid and gas wastes
resulting from any industrial, manufacturing or food processing operation or
process or from the development of any natural resource, or any mixture of
these fluids and domestic sewage, or any mixture of these fluids with any other
water or with any other liquid.
OWNER: The owner, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any building or
premises, or any person acting in the owner's behalf.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation or association.
PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER: Any sanitary sewer constructed by the Village or
dedicated to the Village, regardless of the source of funding, and any sanitary
sewer belonging to any public trust or Municipal corporation or body politic of
any kind.
RETENTION FACILITIES: A facility designed to completely retain a specified
amount of stormwater runoff without gravity release. Retention basins are
generally considered an inappropriate technique for managing stormwater in the
area of Chebanse. The construction of retention basins is not required or
advocated by this article.
RUNOFF: The amount of rainfall that flows directly or indirectly into the storm
sewer system of the Village.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage and wastewater in which ordinarily
groundwater and unpolluted industrial wastes are not included.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The water that results from precipitation which is not
absorbed by soil or plant material, which does not evaporate and which flows
over the surface of the ground or is collected in channels, conduits or ponds.
SUBSIDIARY DRAINAGE PLAT: The topographical and profile studies signed by the
owner or his duly authorized attorney and a registered professional engineer,
and is submitted with a plat to meet the requirements of the Plat Act 1 . The
Village will not file the subsidiary drainage plat with the final plat but will
maintain a copy in its files in accordance with the Plat Act.
SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE: The movement of water upon whatever surface that is
exposed to the sky, as opposed the movement of groundwater or water in pipes.
WASTEWATER: Sewage.
WASTEWATER PLANT: Any facility owned by the Village used for receiving and
treating sewage.
WATERSHED: The land area above a given point on the ground that contributes
stormwater to that point.
WET BOTTOM DETENTION STORAGE: A detention facility that contains a body of
water and which accumulates excess stormwater during a flood or storm. (Ord.
04-14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-19-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
11-3A-2: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE GUIDELINES:
The Village President and Board of Trustees requires that all improvements
"conform with local, State, and Federal authorities which have jurisdiction
over the subdivision". Therefore, the design for stormwater control shall
conform to the technical guidelines set out in this article. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-
1991; amd. 2019 Code)
11-3A-3: STANDARDS OF DETERMINING ADEQUACY OF STORMWATER CONTROL:
Standards for determining the adequacy of provisions for the collection and
diversion of surface waters and calculations required to be made and provided
the Village Engineer are as follows: A subsidiary drainage plat shall be
submitted simultaneously with the subdivision plat, which shall show
topographically and by profile the elevation of the land prior to the
commencement of any change in elevations as a part of any phase of subdivision,
and additionally, if it is contemplated that such elevations, or the flow of
surface water from such land, will be changed as a result of any portion of the
development, then such map shall also show such proposed changes in the
elevations and the flow of the surface water from such land. This topographical
and profile map which is to be submitted with the subdivision plat shall have
on its face the certification of a registered professional engineer and the
owner of the land to the effect that to the best of their knowledge and belief,
the drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the construction of such
subdivision or any part thereof, or that if such surface water drainage shall
be changed, adequate provision has been made for collection and diversion of
such surface waters into public areas or drains which the subdivider has the
right to use, and that such surface waters will not be deposited on the
property of adjoining landowners in such concentrations as may cause damage to
the adjoining property because of the concentration of the subdivision's
stormwater. (Ord. 04-14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-19-2014)
11-3A-4: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT POLICY GUIDELINES:
11-3A-4-1: PURPOSE, INTENT AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section
11-3A-4 is to guide developers in attempts to control the transportation or
movement of stormwater, reduce damage to property and protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this section
11-3A-4 is to require temporary storage of stormwater runoff and to control the
rate of release of stormwater runoff by interpretation of reasonable provisions
and in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices.
   C.   Interpretation: This section
11-3A-4 shall be interpreted to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
and shall not prevent the Village Engineer from determining that other or
additional requirements must be satisfied in order to promote the intent and
purpose hereof. (Ord. 04-14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-19-2014)
11-3A-4-2: SCOPE:
   A.   A combination of stormwater storage and controlled release is required
for all subdivisions involving:
      1.   Development greater than three (3) lots or one acre in area
including one-half (1/2) of existing adjacent streets; or less than one acre in
area with greater than fifty percent (50%) impervious surface area existing or
proposed improvements.
      2.   In any other development if the Village Engineer determines that the
development needs detention to prevent its doing harm.
   B.   Existing land uses, particularly agricultural, may be exempt if current
stormwater provisions do not adversely affect the servient estates. (Ord. 04-
14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-19-2014)
11-3A-4-3: TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements shall be applicable and shall be satisfied prior to
Village Engineer approval of the subsidiary drainage plat. No development shall
be authorized in the Village unless there is an adequate outlet and the Village
has approved retention or detention facilities. The applicant shall show, by
his detailed calculations, that the proposed outlet and retention or detention
facilities are adequate, and the calculations must be acceptable to the
Village. In the event the Village determines the outlet is not adequate, the
developer shall construct any required retention or detention facilities to
meet the restriction created by the inadequate outlet. Such facilities shall be
designed based on the following: (Ord. 04-14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-19-2014; amd.
2019 Code)
   A.   Design Formula: Unless otherwise approved by the Village Engineer,
formulas to be used in connection with the calculation of runoff volumes and
allowable release rates reasonably expected from the minimum design storm shall
be the rational method as outlined in the latest Illinois Department of
Transportation Drainage Manual for total contributing areas between twenty (20)
acres and five (5) acres and the soil conservation hydrograph method for areas
greater than twenty (20) acres.
   B.   Design Table: For areas of development less than five (5) acres, the
following storage and release rates will be required:
 
Area (A) (In Acres) Required Storage Rate (V) (In Maximum Release Rate Allowed
                    Cu. Ft./Acre)                 (Q) (In cfs/Acre)
1                   10,700                        1.05
2                   9,100                         0.90
3                   7,800                         0.78
4                   6,900                         0.64
5                   6,200                         0.60
 
Note: Storage rates and release rates shall be interpolated for areas between
table values to the nearest 0.1 acre.
   C.   Minimum Design Storm:
      1.   Storage volume (V), when using the soil conservation hydrograph
method, will be determined from inflow hydrographs generated by the design
formula using a minimum design storm with a range of rainfall intensities
associated with an average recurrence interval of one hundred (100) years and
an assumed coefficient for the proposed postdevelopment land use.
      2.   Storage volume, when using the rational method, will be the volume
generated by the difference between average runoffs of 100-year rainfall
frequency in postdevelopment condition and 5-year rainfall frequency in
predevelopment condition, assuming such difference occurs for one hour. The
average discharge shall be half of the peak discharge calculated by the
rational method.
      3.   Allowable release rate (Q) will be determined by the design formula
using a minimum design storm with an average rainfall intensity associated with
an average recurrence interval of five (5) years for the storm period
calculated by the time of concentration, as outlined by the latest technical
letters of the Illinois State Water Survey for rainfall frequencies. Runoff
coefficients or CN numbers used shall reflect predeveloped condition of the
watershed. The predeveloped condition of the land shall be defined as
agricultural (straight row crop) or forested, as appropriate. For sites that
are being redeveloped from a use other than the defined predeveloped condition,
the Village may approve use of coefficients or CN numbers for the existing land
use only if the subservient drainage system has adequate capacity in accordance
with the current Village ordinances for flows from the existing site. (Ord. 04-
14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-19-2014)
11-3A-4-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
      1.   Where the proposed structure, project or land development forms only
a portion of a watershed or contains portions of several watersheds, the
storage volume calculations shall be based upon the area of the entire project,
development or land use change.
      2.   The storage of excess stormwater runoff from a 100-year return
period storm having a duration of twenty four (24) hours, released at the
allowable rate, shall not result in a storage duration in excess of twenty four
(24) hours, but storage duration may be as long as forty eight (48) hours or
more upon site specific approval by the Village. All design calculations must
be submitted to the Village Engineer for approval. The tabulated values in
section
11-3A-4-3 of this section
11-3A-4 accommodate this requirement.
      3.   Each stormwater storage area shall be provided with a method of
overflow in the event a storm in excess of the design capacity occurs. This
overflow facility shall be constructed to function without special maintenance
attention and can become a part of the excess stormwater passageway for the
entire development.
      4.   The entire stormwater storage area shall be designed and constructed
to fully protect the public health, safety and welfare. The minimum building
site elevation for wet or dry basins shall be set at a minimum of two feet (2')
above the maximum calculated storage elevation for the 100-year event. The
maximum elevation will include the energy head at the outfall structure. If a
condition occurs in the stormwater storage area which is hazardous to the
public health, safety or welfare, the property owner or owners shall provide
approved corrective measures. In the event these corrective measures are not
provided, the Village may eliminate the hazard at the expense of the property
owner or person responsible.
      5.   The stormwater storage area shall be designed with a minimum of
twelve inches (12") of freeboard above the calculated 100-year water surface
elevation.
   B.   Dry Bottom Stormwater Storage:
      1.   Dry bottom stormwater storage areas should be designed where
possible to serve a secondary purpose for recreation, open space, or similar
types of uses which will not be adversely affected by occasional intermittent
flooding and will not interfere with stormwater management. Backyard storage
will not normally be an approved method of controlling stormwater runoff. In
the event the Village determines that backyard storage is the only feasible
method of storage, extraordinary lot depth will be provided to afford the
property owner adequate recreational area use as determined by the Village
Engineer.
      2.   Minimum grades for longitudinal turf areas shall be one percent (1%)
(100 units horizontal to 1 unit vertical), and maximum side slopes shall be
thirty three percent (33%) (3 units horizontal to 1 unit vertical). Minimum
transverse bottom grade shall be one percent (1%). Storage area side slopes
shall follow the natural land contours as closely as practicable, and a minimum
of earth excavation shall be used to create the storage facility. Geometries of
dry bottom stormwater storage areas shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
      3.   Temporary seeding or other soil stabilization measures shall be
established in the stormwater storage area and the excess stormwater passageway
immediately following the construction or reconstruction of these areas. During
the construction of the overall development, it is recognized that a limited
amount of sediment buildup may occur in the stormwater storage areas due to
erosion. In no case shall the volume of the storage area be reduced to less
than ninety percent (90%) of the required design volume during the construction
phase of the development.
      4.   Permanent erosion control measures such as mulching, hydroseeding,
conventional seeding, nurse crops, fertilizing, or sod installation shall be
utilized to control soil movement and erosion within the storage area and the
excess stormwater passageway. These measures shall meet or exceed the standards
established by the Iroquois County or Kankakee County Soil and Water
Conservation District. The installation of these permanent measures shall take
place only after the majority of construction and other silt and sediment
producing activities have been completed. Prior to the final establishment of
the stormwater storage area and the excess stormwater passageway, all
dimensions and volumes shall be restored.
      5.   The outlet control structure shall be provided with an interceptor
for trash and debris, and it shall be designed and constructed to prevent soil
erosion and not require manual adjustments for its proper operation. The
control structure shall be designed to operate properly with little or no
maintenance or attention. The control structure shall be provided with safety
screens for any pipe or opening, other than a weir, to prevent children or
large animals from crawling into structures. The control structure shall be
constructed to allow access to it at all times, including times of flood flow.
      6.   Pipe outlets of less than ten inches (10") in diameter shall not be
allowed unless specifically approved by the Village Engineer. Multiple outlet
pipes from a storm storage area shall be avoided if they are designed to be
less than twelve inches (12") in diameter.
      7.   Maximum planned depth of stormwater stored shall not exceed four
feet (4').
      8.   Tile underdrains shall be provided in dry bottom stormwater storage
areas. These tile underdrains shall be so constructed that they will not
interfere with any secondary usage of the storage area. Tile underdrains shall
be so constructed so that they shall facilitate dewatering of the soils in the
stormwater storage area to avoid any marshy or saturated soil conditions. Tile
underdrain systems shall be combined with the low flow conduits system and
shall be as approved by the Village Engineer. If an underdrain and low flow
conduit system is shown by the property owner to be unfeasible, the Village may
approve the use of a low flow channel that does not interfere with secondary
usage of this storage area.
      9.   Posting of danger signs mounted at appropriate locations to warn of
deep water, possible flood conditions during storm periods and any other
dangers that exist to pedestrian and vehicular traffic shall be the sole
responsibility of the owner.
      10.   Adequate energy dissipation measures shall be provided at discharge
points into the basin. These measures may include stilling basins, riprap, and
other erosion control measures.
   C.   Wet Bottom Stormwater Storage: The following additional regulations
shall apply:
      1.   Wet bottom stormwater storage areas shall be designed in compliance
with all the regulations which are applicable and govern the construction of
dry bottom stormwater storage areas.
      2.   The water surface area of the permanent pool shall not exceed one-
fifth (1/5) of the area of the tributary watershed, or as approved by the
Village Engineer.
      3.   Minimum normal water depth, excluding safety ledges and slide
slopes, shall be six feet (6'). If fish are to be used to keep the pond clean,
at least one-fourth (1/4) of the pond area shall be a minimum of ten feet (10')
deep.
      4.   Facilities should be provided to lower the pond elevation by gravity
flow for cleaning purposes and shoreline maintenance.
      5.   The control structure for stormwater release should be designed to
operate at full design rate with only a small increase in water depth in order
to minimize the land surface wetted by frequent minor stormwater runoff
conditions.
      6.   The facility shall be provided with an edge system that protects
banks from erosion due to wind action and event flows.
      7.   The storage facility shall provide a safety ledge below the normal
water surface where the slope shall not exceed 3:1 (3 units horizontal to 1
unit vertical) to a depth of four feet (4').
   D.   Paved Stormwater Storage: Design and construction of the pavement base
must ensure that there is no pavement damage due to flooding. Control
structures in paved areas must be readily accessible for maintaining and
cleaning. Flow control devices will be required unless otherwise approved by
the Village Engineer.
   E.   Street Pavement Surface Ponding: Street pavement surface ponding shall
not exceed three inches (3") in depth in the gutter line under all rainfall
conditions up to and including the 100-year storm event. Open waterways such as
surface overflow swales shall be designed into the grading plan to receive all
excess stormwater runoff. Depressing the sidewalk across such overflow swales
to meet this requirement shall be acceptable.
   F.   Rooftop Stormwater Storage: Rooftop storage of excess stormwater shall
be designed and constructed to provide permanent control inlets and parapet
walls to contain excess stormwater. Adequate structural roof design must be
provided to ensure that roof deflection does not occur which could cause the
roofing material to fail and result in leakage. Overflow area must be provided
to ensure that the weight of stormwater will never exceed the structural
capacity of the roof.
   G.   Automobile Parking Lot Storage Areas: Automobile parking lots may be
designed to provide temporary detention storage on a portion of their surfaces.
Automobile parking facilities used to store excess stormwater may be
constructed having a maximum depth of stored stormwater of eight inches (8");
and these areas shall be located in the most remote, least used areas of the
parking facility. Design and construction of automobile parking in stormwater
areas must ensure that there is no damage to the parking facility surfacing due
to flooding, including damage to the subbase. Warning signs shall be mounted at
appropriate locations to warn of possible flood conditions during a storm
period.
   H.   Underground Stormwater Storage: Underground stormwater storage
facilities must be designed for easy access in order to remove accumulated
sediment and debris. These facilities must be provided with a positive gravity
outlet unless otherwise approved by the Village Engineer.
   I.   Tributary Flows: If the site being developed receives tributary flows
from dominant land which are passed through to subservient lands, the developer
shall provide for those flows as follows:
      1.   The developer shall provide a storm sewer outlet for the average 5-
year undeveloped event or a surface drainageway designed for the 25-year event,
with provisions in either case for the 100-year event so as not to cause damage
or a threat to public safety.
      2.   The developer may elect to pass the flows from dominant land through
a proposed detention basin. If the developer so elects, the allowable discharge
to the subservient land may not exceed the undeveloped condition in any storm
event. This requirement will most likely result in a staged discharge outlet.
The controlled release rate to the subservient storm sewer system shall not
exceed the 5-year undeveloped rate or the capacity of the subservient storm
sewer system, whichever is less. The uncontrolled release rate from this site
cannot exceed the 100-year undeveloped release from the dominant land, plus the
allowable release (5-year undeveloped event) from this site. At no time will
the release from the detention facility exceed the undeveloped condition in any
storm event.
      3.   If the orderly management of the stormwater runoff cannot be
achieved by passing the entire tributary area runoff through the stormwater
storage area, then the stormwater storage area may be constructed to exclude
the runoff from the tributary area originating outside of the area to be
developed by separation or rerouting of flows to bypass the proposed detention/
retention facilities.
      4.   Where the owner has a large tract of land upon which development is
to occur in several phases, the owner is encouraged to construct one stormwater
storage facility which is designed to provide for the needs of the entire
completed development, or be enlarged at later dates as additional portions of
the owner's lands are developed and as additional stormwater storage is
required due to that development.
      5.   Where portions of the owner's land are tributary to the same drain
for an outlet, but which are within two (2) or more tributary areas to that
drain, the owner may construct, upon site specific approval by the Village
Engineer, compensatory stormwater detention facilities within one tributary
area which offset the lack of construction of stormwater detention facilities
in another tributary area. Such compensatory storage shall be designed and
constructed such that the net effect of these facilities shall be to limit the
amount of stormwater runoff released into the drain to that which would have
occurred had stormwater detention facilities been constructed for all the
tributary areas.
Stormwater storage areas may be planned and constructed jointly by two (2) or
more landowners so long as compliance with this section
11-3A-4 is maintained.
   J.   Easements: Easements to the Village and/or any legal entity (homeowner
association, etc.) responsible for the maintenance of drainage facilities shall
be granted to further this section
11-3A-4. (Ord. 04-14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-19-2014)
11-3A-4-5: SUBMITTALS:
Two (2) copies of all stormwater detention or retention system designs shall be
submitted by the developer and his engineer for approval simultaneously with
the subsidiary drainage plat. All calculations shall be shown legibly on eight
and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") sheets of paper. The subdivision
name, engineer's firm, engineer's initials and date shall all be indicated. For
all detention systems, a plot or tabulation of storage volumes with
corresponding water surface elevations (stage storage table) and of the basin
outflow rates for those water surface (stage discharge) elevations shall be
furnished. These tabulations shall be listed for water surface elevation
intervals not exceeding one-half foot (0.5'). (Ord. 04-14, 7-19-2014, eff. 7-
19-2014)
CHAPTER 4
PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-4-1: Procedure
11-4-2: Preliminary Plat
11-4-3: Final Plat
11-4-1: PROCEDURE:
A. At least ten (10) days before the regular Village Board of Trustees meeting,
there shall be filed seven (7) copies of a preliminary plan for examination and
subsequent recommendations for approval or disapproval. If the proposed plan of
subdivision is not satisfactory as presented, the Village Board of Trustees may
permit the subdivider to make the changes and additions required to meet the
requirements of this chapter. If the plan of subdivision, as shown by the
preliminary plan, is finally disapproved, the original plan shall be returned
to the subdivider, with a written statement of reasons for such disapproval. If
the proposed plan of subdivision, as shown by the preliminary plan, shall
finally be approved, the original plat and one copy thereof shall be endorsed
as follows:
Tentative approval by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Chebanse this       day of                , 20     .
                                               
                     President
The original copy of the plat so endorsed shall be filed with the Village
Clerk. The other copy thereof shall be returned to the subdivider.
   B.   Within twelve (12) months after receiving tentative approval of the
preliminary plat by the Village President and Board of Trustees, the original
and seven (7) copies of the final plat shall be submitted by the developer for
recommended final approval by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
Tentative approval of the preliminary plat shall become null and void unless
the final plat is submitted within the twelve (12) months as herein required.
   C.   Following final approval by the Village President and Board of
Trustees, the final plat, as approved, may be legally recorded in compliance
with the laws of the State. Approval of the final plat by the Village President
and Board of Trustees shall be null and void if the plat is not recorded within
ninety (90) days after the date of approval, unless application for extension
of time is made in writing during said ninety (90) day period to the Village
President and Board of Trustees and granted. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The preliminary plat submitted to the Village Board of Trustees shall be drawn
to a scale of one hundred feet (100') or less to the inch and shall show the
following information:
   A.   The location of the property with respect to adjacent property and
streets. There shall also be included a location map at a suitable scale to
show all streets and public ways within the general area of the subdivider's
property.
   B.   All pertinent features such as existing structures to remain, streets,
railroads, water bodies, streams, and wooded areas that may influence the
design of the subdivision.
   C.   Existing and proposed contours based on the USGS datum at intervals of
two feet (2') or less, unless waived by the Planning Commission.
   D.   The name, location and width of all proposed streets.
   E.   The proposed location and width of all alleys, lots, setback lines,
utility easements, and areas to be reserved for public use.
   F.   Existing sanitary sewers, storm drains, and culverts within the tract
and immediately adjacent thereto. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
   G.   Proposed sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
places of worship, industry, or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991; amd. 2019 Code)
   H.   Proposed provisions for disposal of sanitary waste and stormwater
drainage.
   I.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of land to be subdivided,
the name and address of the subdivider, if other than the owner, and the name
of the land surveyor and/or registered engineer.
   J.   The north point, scale and date.
   K.   The proposed name of the subdivision. (Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-4-3: FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of one hundred
feet (100') or less to the inch on tracing cloth or mylar with black waterproof
ink, or equivalent. The final plat and/or accompanying documents shall show the
following information:
   A.   Name of subdivision.
   B.   Approximate true north point, date and scale.
   C.   Names and signatures of the owner, subdivider, and land surveyor;
signature and seal of registered engineer on all engineering drawings.
   D.   The legal description of the property subdivided, with the surveyor's
certificate and seal to the effect that the plat represents a survey made by
him and that all monuments are set as shown.
   E.   The accurate location and description of all monuments.
   F.   All angular and linear data along the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision. Boundary bearings for subdivisions over one hundred thousand
(100,000) square feet in an area shall be measured with reference to the true
meridian.
   G.   Locations and widths of all streets and sidewalks, together with names
of streets.
   H.   Location, dimensions and status of all easements.
   I.   Lot lines with accurate dimensions.
   J.   Radii of all curves and lengths of arcs.
   K.   Sufficient data to determine readily the location and length of all
lines.
   L.   All lot and block numbers.
   M.   A copy of the plans and specifications for the required streets,
alleys, public walk improvements, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains,
gas mains, underground electric, telephone and TV cables, and any other public
utility facility.
   N.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer employed by the
subdivider that all required streets, alleys, public walk improvements, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, gas mains, underground electric,
telephone, TV cables, and any other public utility facilities have been
constructed in accordance with the plans and specifications as submitted or a
surety bond as required in subsection 11-3-1E11b of this title.
   O.   Provision shall be made on the face of the plat for approval of the
Village President and Board of Trustees as follows:
The proposed Final Plan of subdivision as shown on this plat and accompanying
documents has received final approval by the President and Board of Trustees of
the Village of Chebanse.
Dated this day       of                 , 20    .
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF CHEBANSE.
                                            
                  Village President
ATTEST:
                       
Village Clerk
(Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
CHAPTER 5
FIGURES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Figure 1, Residential Street Cross Section
11-5-2: Figure 2, Mountable Curb And Gutter
11-5-1: FIGURE 1, RESIDENTIAL STREET CROSS SECTION:
[Image](Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
11-5-2: FIGURE 2, MOUNTABLE CURB AND GUTTER:
(Ord. 91-6, 10-7-1991)
