CITY CODE
of
CHENOA, ILLINOIS
2000
Code current through:
Ord. 871, passed August 13, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Chenoa, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 871, passed August 13, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 399
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE CITY OF CHENOA, ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Chenoa, Illinois,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Chenoa, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a99540bb4eb1bf84b518d0f1202a96cff17db4c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1296.gif]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Construction Of Legislation
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Chenoa. This City Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as CHENOA CITY CODE, and it is hereby
published by authority of the Mayor and City Council and shall be kept up to
date as provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter under the direction of the City's legal counsel, acting
for said City. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal document. (2000 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the City of a general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (2000 Code)
1-1-3: CONSTRUCTION OF LEGISLATION:
The provisions of the ordinances of the City, and therefore this City Code, and
all proceedings under them are to be construed with a view to effect their
objects and to promote justice. (Ord. 137 § 8, 1979; amd. 2000 Code)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of the City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (2000 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Mayor and City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the City
Clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this City Code
shall make every effort to maintain it in an up-to-date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities, shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2000 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect. (2000 Code)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of an
ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby. (Ord. 137,
1979)
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (2000 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or
other part of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Mayor and City
Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or other part thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases or other parts be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Common Usage: All words and phrases in this City Code shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to
such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
   B.   Grammatical Interpretation: The following grammatical rules shall apply
in this City Code unless it is apparent from the context that a different
construction is intended:
      1.   Gender: Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
      2.   Singular And Plural: The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   C.   Tenses: Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable. (Ord. 137, 1979)
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this City Code, shall be
construed as defined in this Section, unless from the context a different
meaning is intended, or unless a different meaning is specifically defined and
more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
AGENT: When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it may
be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent.
CITY: The City of Chenoa, Illinois, or the area within the territorial limits
of the City of Chenoa, and such territory outside of the City over which the
City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional statutory
provision.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and the four (4)
other Commissioners of the City.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Chenoa.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an
act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and
including the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which
case it shall also be excluded.
COUNTY: The County of McLean, Illinois.
FIRE CHIEF: The duly appointed Fire Chief of the Chenoa Fire Protection
District.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Chenoa Fire Protection District.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of May of
each year and end on the thirtieth day of April 1 .
LAW: Denotes applicable Federal law, the constitution and statutes of the State
of Illinois, the ordinances of the City, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
MAY: Is permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUST AND SHALL: Each is mandatory.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words
"swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
OFFICER: Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or
commission means that officer, employee, department, board or commission of the
City.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part
of such building or land.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places,
squares, curbs or other public ways in the City which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of this State.
TENANT AND OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
WRITTEN: Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed or otherwise
reproduced in permanent visible form.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1964 Code § 82; Ord. 137, 1979; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: City Jail
1-4-5: Ordinance Enforcement Program
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Amount of Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions or
failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this Code shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and except in cases where a different punishment is
prescribed in a specific section of this Code, any person convicted of a
misdemeanor under the provisions of this Code shall be punished by a fine of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000).
   B.   Separate Offenses: Each person is guilty of a separate offense for each
and every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of
this Code is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and he shall be
punished accordingly.
   C.   Applicability Of Omitting Action: Whenever in this Code any act or
omission is made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting,
aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
(Ord. 12, 1979; amd. Ord. 122, 1979; Ord. 137, 1979; 2000 Code; Ord. 831, 2-22-
2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (2000 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2000
Code)
1-4-4: CITY JAIL:
   A.   Established: The place in the City heretofore established and used as
the jail, or any other place which may hereafter be established by the City
Council for that purpose, is declared to be the City Jail. (1964 Code § 77)
   B.   Keeper Designated: The Chief of Police 1  shall be the keeper of the
jail and shall have custody over all persons confined therein and of all
property pertaining thereto. (1964 Code § 78)
   C.   Purpose, Escape, Communication:
      1.   The jail shall be used for the incarceration of all persons arrested
for violation of any laws of the State, the United States or for violation of
any City ordinance, until such persons are lawfully brought before a Magistrate
for a hearing, or until such persons are lawfully transferred to some other
place of incarceration or otherwise lawfully released.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to escape, attempt to escape or to
assist any prisoner to escape, or attempt to escape from the City Jail.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to communicate with any prisoner held
in the jail without the permission of the Chief of Police or the Mayor. (1964
Code § 79)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-2 of this title.
1-4-5: ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM:
The City of Chenoa hereby adopts rules 570 through 579 of the Illinois Supreme
Court Rules otherwise known as the Rules and Procedures for Non-Traffic/Non-
Conservation Ordinance Violations. One of the ways that Chenoa will enforce its
ordinances is through the issuance of a charging document. Such document will
be served by a peace officer, Code Enforcement Officer, or as otherwise
authorized by law to any potential violator of City ordinances and shall set
forth the ordinance violation and the amounts of such violations. The charging
document shall meet the requirements as set forth by the Illinois Supreme Court
Rules and only for violations that are not in excess of seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 721, 2-13-2017)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election, Term Of Office
1-5-2: Bond, Oath, Compensation
1-5-3: Mayor's Duties
1-5-4: Mayor Pro Tem
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-8-3 of this Title for the Mayor serving as a conservator of the peace.
1-5-1: ELECTION, TERM OF OFFICE:
The Mayor shall be elected for a four (4) year term, and he shall serve until
his successor is elected and has qualified as is provided by statute. (1964
Code § 1)
1-5-2: BOND, OATH, COMPENSATION:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Mayor shall give a bond with
sureties to be approved by the City Council in the sum of three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00), or such higher sum as may be directed by the City Council,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. He shall take the oath
of office as prescribed by statute, and shall receive such compensation as may
be set from time to time by statute and by the City Council. (1964 Code § 6)
1-5-3: MAYOR'S DUTIES 1 :
   A.   Generally: The Mayor shall serve as the Commissioner of Public Affairs,
and shall be the chief executive officer of the City, and he shall perform all
duties that may be required of him by statute or ordinance. He shall have
supervision over all the executive officers and employees of the City, and he
shall take care that all the ordinances of the City are duly observed and
enforced. He shall have a vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion. (1964
Code § 2; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Signature On Documents: The Mayor shall sign all commissions, licenses,
permits and warrants granted, issued or drawn by order of the City Council or
authorized by the ordinances of the City. In all contracts wherein the City is
a party, he shall sign the same on behalf of the City. (1964 Code § 5)
 
Notes
  2. See Section
1 3-1-2 of this Code naming the Mayor as Liquor Control Commissioner for the
  City.
1-5-4: MAYOR PRO TEM:
The Commissioner of Accounts and Finances shall be vice president of the City
Council, and in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor or the absence or
inability of the Mayor, shall perform the duties of the Mayor. (1964 Code § 7;
amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition
1-6-2: Oath, Compensation
1-6-3: Departments Of The City Council
1-6-4: Duties
1-6-5: Meetings
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 1-8-3 of this title for city council members to serve as conservators of the
  peace.
1-6-1: COMPOSITION:
The city council shall consist of the mayor and four (4) commissioners who
shall be elected and serve for four (4) year terms as is provided by statute.
(1964 Code § 8)
1-6-2: OATH, COMPENSATION:
The members of the city council shall take the oath of office prescribed by
statute, and they shall receive such compensation as may be from time to time
provided by statute and by city ordinance. (1964 Code § 9)
1-6-3: DEPARTMENTS OF THE CITY COUNCIL 1 :
   A.   Departments Designated: The executive and administrative powers and
duties of the city shall be distributed among five (5) departments as follows:
(2000 Code)
      Department of public affairs;
      Department of accounts and finances;
      Department of parks, public health and safety;
      Department of streets and public improvements;
      Department of public property, water and sewer.
      (1964 Code § 20; amd. Ord. 129, 1979; 2000 Code)
   B.   Departmental Responsibility: The mayor shall be commissioner of public
affairs. The department of public affairs shall be responsible for the city of
Chenoa police department with the mayor as the police commissioner. At the
first regular meeting after an election of the member or members, the city
council shall designate, by a majority vote:
      1.   One commissioner to be commissioner of accounts and finances;
      2.   One commissioner to be commissioner of parks, public health and
safety 2 ;
      3.   One commissioner to be commissioner of streets and public
improvements, who is ex officio commissioner of public works; and
      4.   One commissioner to be commissioner of public property, water and
sewer.
This designation may be changed by the city council whenever it appears that
the public service would be benefited thereby. The commissioner of each
department shall be superintendent of that department, shall be responsible for
the proper operation and function of his department, and shall make the
necessary reports to the city council, from time to time, as requested by the
mayor. Special committees shall be created from time to time as directed by the
city council. (Ord. 691, 8-10-2015)
   C.   Subordinate Department Heads: The city council has the right and power
to appoint and discharge the heads of all principal departments subordinate to
the departments provided for herein, and all other officers and employees of
said departments. (1964 Code § 20; amd. Ord. 129, 1979)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/4-5-2 et seq.
  1. See section
2 3-1-2 of this code naming the commissioner of parks, public health and safety
  as deputy liquor control commissioner for the city.
1-6-4: DUTIES:
The city council shall be the legislative department of the city government,
and perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated to it by
statute. (1964 Code § 8)
The city council shall also:
   A.   Determine the powers of and duties to be performed by each department
and shall assign them to the appropriate departments;
   B.   Prescribe the powers and duties of officers and employees, and may
assign officers and employees to one or more of the departments;
   C.   May require an officer or an employee to perform duties in two (2) or
more departments; and
   D.   May make such rules and regulations as may be necessary or proper for
the efficient and economical conduct of the business of the city. (1964 Code §
20; amd. Ord. 129, 1979)
1-6-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Time And Place: The regular meetings of the city council shall be held
at the city hall on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month at six thirty
o’clock (6:30) P.M., except when the second and fourth Tuesday are on a public
holiday, in which case the City Council shall meet at the same hour on the next
day following, unless otherwise determined by resolution.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor or by two
(2) commissioners upon giving notice of not less than twenty four (24) hours to
all members of the city council. Public notice of meetings must also be given
as prescribed in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.02 and 120/2.03.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council, whether regular or
special, shall be open to the public 1 .
   D.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the city
council and at all times when the city council meets as a committee of the
whole.
   E.   Quorum: Any three (3) members of the legislative department, which may
or may not include the mayor, shall constitute a quorum to do business.
   F.   Rules Of Order:
      1.   Applicability: "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the
deliberations of the city council except when in conflict with any of the rules
contained in this section.
      2.   Suspension: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
   G.   Order Of Business: The order of business at meetings of the city
council shall be as follows:
      1.   Roll call;
      2.   Reading of minutes of previous meeting by the city clerk;
      3.   Reports of the city treasurer;
      4.   Bills against the city;
      5.   Reports of the city officers;
      6.   Petitions and communications;
      7.   Reports of commissioners;
      8.   Unfinished business;
      9.   New business;
      10.   Adjourn.
   H.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the mayor or a member of the
city council shall address a meeting of that body or any subcommittees or
public bodies established under and pursuant to the ordinances of the city of
Chenoa except under the following circumstances:
      1.   Each member of the public shall have a cumulative five (5) minutes
of time on which to speak, unless permitted extra time at the discretion of the
meeting chairman. The subject matter shall not be limited to topics on the
agenda.
      2.   The appropriate time for addressing meetings shall be limited to the
time period designated for public comment on the agenda, unless, at the
discretion of the meeting chairman, public comment is appropriate for matters
under discussion at any particular time.
      3.   The chairman may call a ten (10) minute break in the meeting any
time where the chairman believes that public order will be enhanced by a break
in the proceedings.
      4.   The foregoing rules for public comment may be altered at any meeting
on the consent of a majority of the voting members present.
   I.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the city council shall be
rescinded at a special meeting unless there are present at the special meeting
as many commissioners as were present when the vote was taken.
   J.   Resolutions To Be Written: Upon request of any member of the city
council, any resolutions submitted to the city council shall be reduced to
writing before voting.
   K.   Disturbing Meetings Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to disturb
any meeting of the city council or of any committee thereof. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection shall be fined for each offense as
provided for in the general penalty provisions of section 1-4-1 of this title.
(1964 Code §§ 11 - 16, 18, 19, 21; amd. Ord. 129, 1979; 2000 Code; Ord. 504,
12-12-2005; Ord. 673, 9-22- 2014; Ord. 776, 11-25-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Applicability Of Chapter
1-7-2: City Officers
1-7-3: Terms Of Office
1-7-4: Bond And Oath
1-7-5: Salaries
1-7-6: Official Responsibilities
1-7-7: Wages For Public Works Employees
1-7-8: Hiring Of Related Parties
1-7-1: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this chapter apply alike to all officers or employees of the
city, regardless of the time of creating the office or of the time of the
appointment of the officer. (1964 Code § 64)
1-7-2: CITY OFFICERS:
At the first regular meeting after the general election of its members, or as
soon thereafter as practicable, the city council shall appoint, by majority
vote, the following officers:
   City clerk
   City treasurer
   City attorney
   Chief of police
(1964 Code § 20; amd. Ord. 129, 1979; 2000 Code)
1-7-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Terms: Where the term of office is not otherwise fixed, every
appointive officer or employee of the city shall hold office for a term of one
year, or until his successor is appointed and qualified. Employees selected
shall serve so long as their services are desired. (1964 Code § 66)
   B.   Termination: Upon the termination of his office, for any cause
whatsoever, every officer of the city shall deliver to his successor all books
and records which may be the property of the city, and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property shall
be delivered either to the city clerk or to the city treasurer. (1964 Code §
74)
1-7-4: BOND AND OATH 1 :
   A.   Bonds: If required by the city council and before entering upon the
duties of his office, every officer and employee shall give a bond in such
amount as may be required by the city council and with such sureties as it may
approve, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office
or position. (1964 Code § 71)
   B.   Oath: Before entering upon his duties, every officer of the city shall
take and subscribe to the oath prescribed by statute. (1964 Code § 70)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/4-4-2.
1-7-5: SALARIES:
All officers and employees of the city shall receive such salaries as may be
provided from time to time by ordinance. (1964 Code § 72; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-6: OFFICIAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Records Open To Inspection: All records kept by any officer of the city
shall be open to inspection by the mayor, or any member of the city council, at
all reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by
statute or ordinance. (1964 Code § 68)
   B.   Collection Of Monies: Every officer and employee of the city shall, at
least once each day, turn over all monies received by him in his official
capacity to the city treasurer, or to the city clerk if so designated by the
city treasurer, with a statement showing the source from which the same was
received. (1964 Code § 69; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-7: WAGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Applicability Of Section: Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to apply the general prevailing rate of wages, as ascertained in this
section, to any work or employment except public works construction of the city
to the extent required by the 820 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/0/01 et seq.
(Ord. 114, 1978)
   B.   Conformance To County Act Required: To the extent and as required by
the act referred to in subsection A of this section, the general prevailing
rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers
engaged in the construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of
this city is ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for
construction work in the McLean County area, as determined by the department of
labor of the state as of may of each calendar year, a copy of that
determination being attached to the ordinance codified in this section and on
file in the city clerk's office, and which is incorporated in this section by
reference. The definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also
used in the aforesaid act shall be the same as in said act. (Ord. 114, 1978;
amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Availability For Inspection: The city clerk shall publicly post or keep
available for inspection by any interested party, in the main office of the
city, the determination of the prevailing rate of wage.
   D.   Deliver Copy: The city clerk shall mail a copy of the determination of
prevailing wages to any employer, and to any association of employers, and to
any person or association of employees who have filed, or who file, their names
and addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating the particular
rates and the particular class of workers whose wages will be affected by such
rates.
   E.   File With State: The city clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of
the ordinance codified in this section with both the secretary of state and the
department of labor of the state. (Ord. 114, 1978)
1-7-8: HIRING OF RELATED PARTIES:
   A.   The hiring of full time city employees who are related parties to the
officers of the City. City commissioners or council members or full time
employees of the City may be allowed, but only when the Council can (1)
demonstrate that there are no other candidates as qualified or more qualified
than the desired applicant or (2) there are no other options for applicant for
the vacant position to be filled. In any event, the desired hire shall not
report to the related party and the City shall take all measures to ensure that
the related parties will not be in a position to affect the personnel decisions
relating to each other.
   B.   “Related parties” for purposes of this section shall be defined as
ancestors, descendants, or siblings of the mayor or city council members or
employees, or descendants of such siblings. (Ord. 432, 9-10-2001; amd. Ord.
832, 3-31-2022)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment, Term
1-7A-2: Bond
1-7A-3: Duties
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM:
The City Clerk shall be appointed by the City Council, and shall serve until
his successor is appointed and qualified as provided by statute.
In case the office of City Clerk becomes vacant for any reason, it shall be
filled by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council as is
provided by statute. (Ord. 225, 1987)
1-7A-2: BOND:
Before entering upon his duties of office, the City Clerk shall execute a bond
in an amount determined by the City Council with sureties to be approved by the
City Council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties, and the
payment of all money received by the Clerk, to indemnify the City for any loss
due to any neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the City Clerk. (Ord.
225, 1987)
1-7A-3: DUTIES:
In addition to the duties herein provided, the City Clerk shall perform such
other duties and functions which may be required by statute or ordinance. The
City Clerk shall:
   A.   Corporate Seal: Be the custodian of the City seal and shall attest all
ordinances, contracts, licenses, permits and such other documents that shall
require this formality.
   B.   Documents: Be the custodian of the documents belonging to the City
which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
   C.   Records: Attend all meetings of the corporate authorities and keep a
full record of its proceedings. In addition to the record of ordinances and
other records which the City Clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall
keep a register of all licenses and permits issued and the payments thereon, a
record of all the officers and regular employees of the City and such other
records as may be required by the City Council. The City Clerk shall keep and
maintain a proper index to all such documents and records.
   D.   Correspondence: Handle all incoming and outgoing correspondence of the
City not otherwise directed to be handled by some other officer.
   E.   Personnel: Keep and maintain all personnel files, keep time sheets and
compensatory time records and distribute the payroll to City employees.
   F.   Financial Duties:
      1.   Disbursements: Receive all purchase orders, invoices, statements and
billings for City expenses, categorize same, verify the amounts to be paid and
prepare a disbursement worksheet for the use of the City Council at such
intervals as the City Council shall direct.
      2.   Deposit Of Funds: Receive all monies due the City for fines,
forfeitures, license fees and similar payments. He shall deposit all City funds
coming into his possession pursuant to his duties herein and make report
promptly to the City Treasurer of same.
   G.   Water And Sewer Department: Conduct all City Water and Sewer Department
billing procedures, including the computation of bills, the sending of same,
the receipt of payments thereon, the keeping of records regarding payment and
the sending of delinquency letters and shutoff notices. In addition, the City
Clerk shall prepare monthly deposit journals for same and prepare any and all
water and sewer reports required by the City Council and appropriate
governmental bodies.
   H.   Office Hours: Maintain such office hours to conduct City business as
shall be required by the City Council, and shall conduct and record all
dealings with the citizens of the City and other parties having business with
the City. (Ord. 225, 1987)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment, Term
1-7B-2: Bond
1-7B-3: Duties
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM:
The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City Council, and shall serve
until his successor is appointed and qualified by statute.
In case the office of City Treasurer becomes vacant for any reason, it shall be
filled by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council as is
provided by statute. (Ord. 226, 1987)
1-7B-2: BOND:
Before entering upon his duties of office, the City Treasurer shall give a bond
with sureties to be approved by the City Council in an amount determined by the
City Council, said amount not to be less than required by statute. The bond
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the City Treasurer of his
duties, and to indemnify the City for any loss due to any neglect of duty or
wrongful act on the part of the City Treasurer. (Ord. 226, 1987)
1-7B-3: DUTIES:
The City Treasurer shall:
   A.   Funds: Ensure that City funds are promptly deposited in such
depositories as may be selected by the City Council from time to time as is
provided by law. He shall keep the money separate and distinct from his own,
and shall not intermingle his own money with it or make private or personal use
of the City funds.
   B.   Record Keeping: Keep records showing all monies received by him, the
source from which it was received and the purpose for which it was paid out.
Said duties shall include the posting of the general ledger, the preparation of
monthly and annual financial reports, the preparation of financial statements
for publication, preparation of IMRF records and reports and periodic reports
required by Farmers Home Administration and any other public bodies.
   C.   Checks: Write checks for all bills and disbursements, prepare the
payroll for City employees, keep payroll records and file required periodic
employer tax returns, W-2s and 1099s, as applicable.
   D.   Accounts: Keep such books and accounts as may be required by the City
Council, shall keep them in the manner required by the City Council, and shall
perform such duties as may be prescribed for him by statute, ordinance or other
City Council directive. (Ord. 226, 1987)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment
1-7C-2: Duties
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT:
There is created the office of City Attorney, an executive office of the City.
The City Attorney shall be appointed by the City Council. (1964 Code § 42; Ord.
129, 1979)
The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City, and shall render
advice on all legal questions affecting the City. Whenever requested to do so
by the City Council, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing. (1964 Code §
45)
1-7C-2: DUTIES:
The City Attorney shall:
   A.   Prosecution Duties: Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at
law or equity to which the City may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer of the City on
behalf of the City, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
City. (1964 Code § 43)
   B.   Judgment Enforcement: See to the full enforcement of all judgments or
decrees rendered or entered in favor of the City, and of all similar
interlocutory orders. (1964 Code § 44)
   C.   Assessment And Condemnation Proceedings: See to the completion of all
special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings. (1964 Code § 46)
   D.   Document Drafting: Draft or supervise the phraseology of any contracts,
leases or other documents or instruments to which the City may be a party, and,
upon request by the City Council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the City. (1964 Code § 47)
CHAPTER 8
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Department Created; Composition
1-8-2: Chief Of Police
1-8-3: Conservators Of The Peace
1-8-4: Powers And Duties
1-8-5: Part Time Police
1-8-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is created a police department of the city. The police department shall
consist of the chief of police and of such number of other police officers as
may be provided from time to time by the city council. (1964 Code § 54)
1-8-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is created the office of chief of
police. The chief shall be appointed by the city council, and he shall be ex
officio city marshal and superintendent of police. (1964 Code § 55; amd. Ord.
129, 1979)
   B.   Bond: Before entering upon his duties, the chief of police shall file
with the city clerk a bond in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with
sureties to be approved by the city council, conditioned to indemnify the city
council for any loss or liability due to or occasioned by any act or failure to
act on the part of the chief. (1964 Code § 56)
   C.   Duties: The chief of police shall have the following duties:
      1.   City Jail 1 : He shall be the keeper of the city jail and shall have
custody of all persons incarcerated therein.
      2.   Records: He shall keep such records and make such reports concerning
the activities of his department as may be required by statute or by the city
council.
      3.   Supervise Department: He shall be responsible for the performance by
the police department of all its functions, and all persons who are members of
the police department shall serve subject to the orders of the chief of police.
(1964 Code § 57)
      4.   Custodian Of Stolen And Lost Property: The chief of police shall be
the custodian of all lost and abandoned or stolen property in the city. (1964
Code § 63)
   D.   Residency: The duly qualified and appointed chief of police of the city
of Chenoa may reside outside of the city limits of the city, but must reside
within a ten (10) mile radius of the Chenoa City Hall. (Ord. 606, 11-14-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-4 of this title.
1-8-3: CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE 1 :
The mayor and city council, as well as every member of the police department,
are declared to be conservators of the peace. (1964 Code § 73)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25.
1-8-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: It shall be the duty of the members of the police department
to see to the enforcement of all of the ordinances of the city and all statutes
applicable thereto, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law
and arrest violators thereof. (1964 Code § 58)
   B.   Serving Processes: No member of the police department, except the
chief, shall serve any process except on command of the chief of police. (1964
Code § 59)
   C.   Conduct: It shall be the duty of every member of the police department
to conduct himself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times and to avoid
the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the department shall obey the
orders and directions of his superior. (1964 Code § 60)
   D.   Witness Fees: Any member of the police department shall appear as
witness whenever this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an
ordinance or of any state or federal law. No such member shall retain any
witness fee for service as witness in any action or suit to which the city is a
party, and fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the chief of
police, who shall deposit the same with the city treasurer. (1964 Code § 61)
1-8-5: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The city of Chenoa, McLean County, Illinois, may employ
part time police officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
policies and procedures of the Chenoa police department, but the number of
hours a part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part
time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time
police officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with
the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the
ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time officers serve at the discretion
of the city of Chenoa authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the police department. (Ord. 616, 6-11-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 9
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Department Established
1-9-2: Superintendent
1-9-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
The combined waterworks and sewerage system in the City shall be maintained and
operated as a separate department and hereafter in this Chapter, and in Title 8
of this Code, shall be referred to as the Department. (Ord. 147, 1980)
1-9-2: SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Superintendent Appointed: There shall be a Superintendent of the
Waterworks and Sewerage Department to be appointed by the City Council.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The appointed Superintendent shall have supervision over all
buildings, sewers, manholes, mains, treatment works, wells, appurtenances and
equipment used in the furnishing of waterworks and sewerage service in the City
and shall see that the object and purposes of the waterworks and sewerage
system is conducted on an economical businesslike basis, and for this purpose,
it shall be the duty of the Superintendent and all of the officers, employees
and servants of the Department to enforce all of the provisions of this
Chapter, and of Title 8 of this Code, and to observe and obey and carry out the
orders and directions of the City Council.
      2.   The Superintendent shall prepare and keep at the City Hall a
complete atlas of the waterworks and sewerage system with all connections and
other appurtenances distinctly recorded therein.
      3.   The Superintendent, or such officer or employees of the Waterworks
and Sewerage Department as the City Council shall direct, shall read water
meters of the City, take water and sewer applications, and shall perform such
other duties as now are or may hereafter be imposed upon him by law or the
ordinances of the City.
   C.   Compensation: The Superintendent and other officers and employees of
the Waterworks and Sewerage Department shall receive as compensation for their
services amounts to be fixed by the City Council from time to time.
   D.   Reports: Not later than the first Monday of every month or more often
if required, the Superintendent shall submit a report in writing to the City
Council, listing therein but not limited to, the following data:
      1.   Applications for service to be approved by the Superintendent;
      2.   Number of metered and unmetered customers connected to the system at
the beginning and the end of period;
      3.   Sale of water at plant (automatic salesperson);
      4.   Details of any major repairs and extensions to the system or other
facts pertinent to his duties in the conduct of his office. (Ord. 147, 1980)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Corporate Seal
1-10-2: Surety Bonds
1-10-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city shall be the seal heretofore used for the city,
being a circular form with the words "City of Chenoa" on the top of the outer
circle and the words "State of Illinois" on the bottom of the outer circle, and
the word "Seal" in the center of the inner circle. (1964 Code § 81)
1-10-2: SURETY BONDS:
Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the city is required as a prerequisite to
exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the issuance of a
license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege, the surety on
such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do business in this
state as a surety company, or an individual approved as surety by the city
council, in the absence of a specific provision to the contrary by ordinance.
Whenever in its opinion additional sureties or an additional surety may be
needed on any bond to indemnify the city against any loss or liability because
of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties to be secured for such
bond, and if such new surety or sureties are not procured within ten (10) days
from the time such order is transmitted to the principal on the bond, or his
assignee, the city council shall declare the bond to be void, and thereupon
such principal, or assignee, shall be deemed to have surrendered the privilege
or position as condition of which the bond was required. (1964 Code § 84)
CH573   1-11
CHAPTER 11
ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-11-3: Gift Ban
1-11-4: Ethics Advisor
1-11-5: Ethics Commission
1-11-6: Penalties
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining or c) that are otherwise in furtherance of
the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the city of Chenoa, whether on a full time or
part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The city of Chenoa.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 475, 5-
10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-11-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the city of
Chenoa in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 475, 5-10-2004)
1-11-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as
defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift, and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of any officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 475, 5-10-2004)
1-11-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council shall
designate an ethics advisor for the city of Chenoa. The duties of the ethics
advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the city of Chenoa unless
the position has been created as an office by the city of Chenoa.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the city of Chenoa concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the city council. (Ord. 475,
5-10-2004)
1-11-5: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the city of Chenoa. The commission shall be comprised of three
(3) members appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. No person shall be appointed as a member of the commission who is
related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to
any elected officer of the city of Chenoa.
   B.   At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2)
commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   C.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, may remove
a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office after service on the commissioner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a copy of the written charges against the commissioner and after
providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than
ten (10) days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   D.   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with subsection
1-11-6C of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-11-2 or
1-11-3 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the city of Chenoa to cooperate with the commission
during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with
requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or
discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   E.   1. Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the ethics commission.
      2.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-11-3 of this chapter and there is a determination of the probable cause, then
the commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint
be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege
a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-11-2 of this chapter, then the commission shall notify in writing the
attorney designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and
shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in
the custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
      4.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
open meetings act.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: a) dismiss the complaint or
b) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
mayor or other officer or commissioner having authority to discipline the
officer or employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The
particular findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any
fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
      6.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the mayor or other officer or commissioner having
authority to discipline the officer or employee or impose a fine upon the
violator, or both.
      7.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection E5 of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7)
days preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before
the date of that election, if possible.
      8.   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
 1-11-3 of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars
($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission
may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The
commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
      9.   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 475, 5-10-2004)
1-11-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-11-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-11-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-11-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the city of Chenoa by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
A violation of section
1-11-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the city of Chenoa, or, if an ethics commission has been created,
by the commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-11-2 or
1-11-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 475, 5-10-
2004)
CHAPTER 12
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purpose
1-12-2: Definitions
1-12-3: Establishment Of Registry
1-12-4: Maintenance Of Registry
1-12-5: Registration By Residents
1-12-6: Registration By Organizations
1-12-7: Determination Of Eligibility
1-12-8: Renewal And Termination
1-12-9: Amendment To Registration
1-12-10: Registries Available For Public Inspection
1-12-11: Notices To Be Sent To Interested Parties
1-12-12: Noninterference
1-12-13: Amendment Of Registration Rules
1-12-1: PURPOSE:
To create an "interested parties registry" in accordance with section 11-74.4-
4.2 of the TIF act for each redevelopment project area created under the TIF
act, whether now existing or created after the date of the adoption of this
chapter. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in these registration rules, the following terms shall have the
definitions set forth below:
ACT: The tax increment allocation redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
CITY: The city of Chenoa, an Illinois municipal corporation.
CLERK: The city clerk.
INTERESTED PARTY(IES): A. Any organization(s) active within the city,
   B.   Any resident(s) of the city, and
   C.   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the act to register
in the interested parties registry who has registered in such registry and
whose registration has not been terminated in accordance with these
registration rules.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA: A redevelopment project area that: a) is intended
to qualify or that has previously or subsequently qualified as a "redevelopment
project area" under the act, and b) is subject to the "interested parties
registry" requirements of the act.
REGISTRATION FORM: The form appended to these registration rules, or such
revised form as may be approved by the department consistent with the
requirements of the act.
REGISTRY OR REGISTRIES: Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to section 11-74.4-
4.2 of the act for a redevelopment project area. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY:
The city shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules or hereafter established. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-4: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The registries shall be maintained by the clerk, who has a principal business
office located at city hall, Chenoa, Illinois. The city may transfer the
responsibility for maintaining the registries to such other department provided
that the city: a) gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less
than thirty (30) days prior to such transfer, and b) publishes notice of such
transfer in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. (Ord. 651, 2-24-
2014)
1-12-5: REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS:
An individual seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of a current driver's license,
lease, utility bill, or such other evidence as may be acceptable to the clerk
to establish the individual's current residency. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-6: REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS:
An organization seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one page statement
describing the organization's current operations in the city. (Ord. 651, 2-24-
2014)
1-12-7: DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY:
All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten (10) business days of the clerk's receipt of all
such documents. The clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant
confirming such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be
entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under
these rules or as otherwise required under the act with respect to the
applicable redevelopment project area. If the clerk determines that a
registrant's registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with these rules, the clerk shall give written notice to the
registrant specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting
documentation. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-8: RENEWAL AND TERMINATION:
An interested party's registration shall remain effective for a period of three
(3) years. At any time after such three (3) year period, the clerk may provide
written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating that such
registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews such
registration within thirty (30) days of the clerk's mailing of written notice.
To renew such registration, the interested party shall, within such thirty (30)
day period, complete and submit the same registration form and supporting
documentation then required of initial registrants in order to permit the clerk
to confirm such person's residency or such organization's operations in the
city. The registration of all individuals and organizations whose registration
form and supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner and complies
with these regulation rules shall be reviewed for an additional, consecutive
three (3) year period. If the clerk determines that a registrant's renewal
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with these registration rules, the clerk shall give written notice to
the registrant at the address specified in the renewal registration form
submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be
entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation within thirty (30) days of receipt of the clerk's
notice. If all defects are not corrected within thirty (30) days or the
interested party's receipt of the clerk's notice, the interested party's
registration shall be terminated. Any interested party whose registration is
terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a first time registrant.
(Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-9: AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION:
An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to the
clerk by certified mail of any of the following: a) a change in address for
notice purposes; b) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and c) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly. (Ord. 651,
2-24-2014)
1-12-10: REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION:
Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal city
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested person and, for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-11: NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES:
Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area pursuant to:
   A.   Section 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of the availability of a proposed
redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to obtain this
information; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of
time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public hearing for the
proposed redevelopment plan;
   B.   Section 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of changes to proposed
redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add additional parcels of property to the
proposed redevelopment project area, 2) substantially affect the general land
uses proposed in the redevelopment plan, 3) substantially change the nature of
or extend the life of the redevelopment project, or 4) increase the number of
low or very low income households to be displaced from the redevelopment
project area, provided that measured from the time of creation of the
redevelopment project area the total displacement of the households will exceed
ten (10); such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten (10) days
following the city's adoption by ordinance of such changes;
   C.   Section 74.4-5(c) of the act, notice of amendments to previously
approved redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add additional parcels of property
to the redevelopment project area, 2) substantially affect the general land
uses in the redevelopment plan, 3) substantially change the nature of the
redevelopment project, 4) increase the total estimated redevelopment project
costs set out in the redevelopment plan by more than five percent (5%) after
adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was adopted, 5) add additional
redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of redevelopment project costs
set out in the redevelopment plan, or 6) increase the number of low or very low
income households to be displaced from the redevelopment project area, provided
that measured from the time of creation of the redevelopment project area the
total displacement of households will exceed ten (10); such notice shall be
sent by mail not later than ten (10) days following the city's adoption by
ordinance of any such amendment;
   D.   Section 74.4-5(d)(9) of the act, for redevelopment plans or projects
that would result in the displacement of residents from ten (10) or more
inhabited residential units or that contain seventy five (75) or more inhabited
residential units, notice of the availability of the certified audit report
described in section 74.4-5(d)(9), including how to obtain the certified audit
report; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of time
after completion of the certified audit report;
   E.   Section 74.4-6(e) of the act, notice of the preliminary public meeting
required under the act for a proposed redevelopment project area that will
result in the displacement of ten (10) or more inhabited residential units or
which will contain seventy five (75) or more inhabited residential units, such
notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than fifteen (15) days before
the date of such preliminary public meeting. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
1-12-12: NONINTERFERENCE:
These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise interfere
with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to register for
receipt of information to which they are entitled under the act. (Ord. 651, 2-
24-2014)
1-12-13: AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES:
These registration rules may be amended by the city council, subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the act. (Ord. 651, 2-24-2014)
CHAPTER 13
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
SECTION:
1-13-1: Written Requests
1-13-2: FOIA Officer
1-13-3: Police Department
1-13-4: FOIA Requests
1-13-5: Fees
1-13-1: WRITTEN REQUESTS:
Any person may request copies of the inspection of public records of the City
of Chenoa, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Freedom of Information Act
(hereinafter "FOIA") by submitting a written request using a form provided by
the City or in whatever written form the requester chooses, to the FOIA Officer
at City Hall, during normal business hours on Monday through Friday from eight
thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (Ord. 713, 10-10-2016)
1-13-2: FOIA OFFICER:
The City Clerk is hereby appointed the FOIA Officer. (Ord. 713, 10-10-2016)
1-13-3: POLICE DEPARTMENT:
A request for public records relating to the City of Chenoa Police Department
shall be submitted directly to and will be administered by the City of Chenoa
Police Department. (Ord. 713, 10-10-2016)
1-13-4: FOIA REQUESTS:
The City of Chenoa shall publish, by way of its website or other public
notification, the acceptable means by which it is to receive FOIA requests
either in person, by mail, by facsimile, or by email. (Ord. 713, 10-10-2016)
1-13-5: FEES:
Pursuant to FOIA, the fees for copying and delivery of public records shall be
as follows:
   A.   Records:
Paper copy:                                                         
 Black and white, letter or legal size - first 50 pages           Free
 Each page after first 50 pages - black and white letter or legal $0.10
  size
 Each page - color, letter or legal size                          0.25
 Each page, 11 x 17, black/white                                  0.25
 Each page, 11 x 17, color                                        0.50
 Larger than 11 x 17 black/white                                  0.75
 Larger than 11 x 17 color                                        1.00
Contracted printings                                               Actual costs
Videotapes                                                         Actual costs
Postage                                                            Actual costs
CDs/DVDs                                                           Actual costs
USB flash                                                          Actual costs
Any other public record                                            Actual costs
Request to convert to PDF:                                          
 <2 MB                                                            $20.00
 <4 MB                                                            40.00
 4 MB                                                             10.00
 
   B.   Payment Of Fees: All fees for copying and delivery costs of public
records shall be paid prior to the requesting party's receipt of the public
records from the FOIA Officer. (Ord. 713, 10-10-2016)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Duties
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-7.1, there is hereby created
the Economic Development Commission, a committee of the City. The Commission
shall consist of seven (7) members to be appointed by the Mayor and with the
advice and consent of the City Council. The Commission shall be established and
governed as provided in the Commission bylaws, attached to Ordinance 769, and
incorporated in this Chapter as if set out in full. (Ord. 337, 5-13-1996; amd.
2000 Code; Ord. 769, 8-26-2019)
2-1-2: DUTIES:
The Economic Development Commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   Consider strategies for economic development in the City, including the
use of City, State and Federal funds, the use of tax increment financing, and
the designation of business districts and/or commercial blight and conservation
areas;
   B.   In conjunction with the City's Mayor and City Council, consider
applications for economic development funds, pursuant to the Commission bylaws;
and
   C.   Perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to the
Commission by the Mayor and/or the City Council. (Ord. 337, 5-16-1996; amd.
Ord. 769, 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Established; Appointment; Members
2-2-2: Enforcement Responsibilities
2-2-3: Meetings
2-2-4: Appeal Procedures
2-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; MEMBERS:
   A.   Board Established: The Chenoa zoning board of appeals is hereby
established. The members of the zoning board of appeals and the chairman shall
be appointed by the city council. A vacancy on the board shall be filled for
the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant, such vacancy to
be filled under the same procedure as in an original appointment. (Ord. 123,
1979)
   B.   Members, Terms, Residency: The board shall consist of seven (7) members
to serve respectively for two (2) year terms, or until their successor is
appointed. Members will be appointed at the first meeting of the city council
after municipal elections, or as soon as practicable thereafter. All members of
the zoning board of appeals shall be residents of the city. (Ord. 636, 5-28-
2013)
2-2-2: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Enforcement Of Zoning: The zoning board of appeals is responsible for
enforcing the provisions of title 10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code, and
to hold any public hearings as required under the provisions of section
10-14-6 of this code.
   B.   Public Hearings And Testimony: At all public hearings before the board,
the board shall require that all testimony by witnesses be given under oath.
(Ord. 123, 1979)
2-2-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Place: All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be called by
the chairman and held at the Chenoa City Hall.
   B.   Open To Public: All meetings of the board shall be open to the public 1
.
   C.   Minutes Of Meetings; Findings: The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating that fact. Findings of fact and decisions shall
be prepared for each case reviewed by the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 123,
1979)
 
Notes
1 1. Open public meetings act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-2-4: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Hearing And Decision Authority: The zoning board of appeals shall hear
and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning administrator, who is charged with the
enforcement of title 10 of this code.
   B.   Place On Docket, Notice: When an appeal is taken from the zoning
administrator by an aggrieved person or party, the chairman of the zoning board
of appeals shall place the appeal on the meeting docket and shall prepare a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof and proceed under section
10-14-6 of this code.
   C.   Effect; Reverse Decision: An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from. The concurring votes of five (5)
members of the zoning board of appeals shall be required to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the zoning administrator. (Ord. 123,
1979)
CHAPTER 3
LESTER L. SILLIMAN ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Created
2-3-2: Meetings
2-3-3: Duties
2-3-4: Use Of Funds
2-3-5: Guidelines And Rules Of Operation
2-3-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby established the Lester L. Silliman Advisory Board (the
"board"), to be comprised of three (3) individuals who are appointed by the
Council for a three (3) year term on a calendar year basis. The initial term
shall expire December 31st, 2020. The City of Chenoa approves Marion Shier,
Karen West, and JD Skaggs for the initial term of the such board. (Ord. 743, 4-
9-2018)
2-3-2: MEETINGS:
The Lester L. Silliman Advisory Board shall meet at times and places of its own
choosing, but all such meetings shall be subject to the Illinois Open Meetings
Act. At least two (2) of said meetings shall be held after published public
notice of specific time, place and purpose, with the specific intent to provide
input from the general public as to board functions and recommendations. The
board is encouraged to meet quarterly to discuss matters relevant to the trust.
(Ord. 743, 4-9-2018)
2-3-3: DUTIES:
Each year, prior to the City Council adoption of its annual appropriation
ordinance, the board shall make a recommendation for the coming fiscal year to
the City Council as to the use of Silliman Fund income. For purpose of
determining the amount available to be spent in any particular year, income
shall include both investment income and Silliman Trust farm income from the
previous fiscal year, but shall not include gains from sale of assets. There
shall be no restriction on such uses to be recommended by the board, except
that any such uses shall be for a public purpose, and for the use of the
inhabitants of the City of Chenoa, and such other legal restrictions as may
exist at the time. The board may recommend more than one use in any fiscal
year, and may be for such programs, donations, projects, or capital
improvements as it may deem proper. (Ord. 743, 4-9-2018)
2-3-4: USE OF FUNDS:
In any particular year, the City Council may follow the recommendations of the
board, in whole or in part, or may decline to appropriate such funds for the
purposes recommended. Implementation of the programs or uses of the monies
shall be a City Council function, although members of the board, or other
interested members of the public, may be delegated by the Council to carry out
the intended use of the funds. Funds not appropriated in any fiscal year, or
appropriated but not used for the appropriated purpose within a reasonable
time, shall be returned in the fund and added to principal. (Ord. 743, 4-9-
2018)
2-3-5: GUIDELINES AND RULES OF OPERATION:
After its appointment, the first such board shall draw up guidelines and rules
of operation of the board, which shall be approved by the Council. The Council
may modify these terms and provisions of the ordinance and the terms of such
guidelines by ordinance, resolution or regulation at such time or times as it
deems appropriate. (Ord. 743, 4-9-2018)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL 1
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-1-3: Licenses Required
3-1-4: License Classifications
3-1-5: License Fees, Number Issued
3-1-6: Applications For License
3-1-7: Bond Requirements
3-1-8: Conditions Of License
3-1-9: Sanitary Conditions
3-1-10: Live Bands And Entertainment
3-1-11: Outside Liquor Facilities (Beer Gardens)
3-1-12: Doors To Remain Closed
3-1-13: Minors In Licensed Premises; Exceptions, Burden Of Proof
3-1-14: Persons Ineligible For License
3-1-15: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
3-1-16: Violations
3-1-17: Enforcement Procedures
3-1-18: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. Ordinance 314, comprising this chapter, states that it is effective and in
  full force as of January 1, 1995.
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the words when used within this
chapter:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Spirits, wine, beer, ale, whiskey, gin, brandy, rum or any
distilled or fermented liquid containing more than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) alcohol by volume, but for human consumption.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
HOURS: Either Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Time, whichever is in
effect in the city.
PREMISES: The completely enclosed permanent building wherein the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages by class A, B, C, and E licenses occurs, and
the temporary structure where sale and consumption by class D licenses occurs.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
SALE: Transfer, exchange or barter for consideration, including any sale made
by any person including principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee, and
includes, but is not limited to, all of the following acts when done for
consideration:
   A.   The selling of alcoholic beverages;
   B.   The giving away of alcoholic beverages;
   C.   The dispensing of alcoholic beverages;
   D.   The providing of mix, ice, water, containers, cups, glasses or soft
drinks for the purpose of mixing drinks containing alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises;
   E.   The pouring of alcoholic beverages;
   F.   The storage of any alcoholic beverage.
SELL: The act of making a sale, receiving an order for exposing to the public
for the purpose of selling or keeping with the intent to sell.
SPECIAL EVENT RETAILER: An educational, fraternal, political, civic, religious
or nonprofit organization and all bars and restaurants within the City of
Chenoa limits which sells or offers for sale beer or wine, or both, only for
consumption at the location and on the dates designated by a special event
retail license.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined above. (Ord.
314, 1994; amd. Ord. 648, 12-9-2013; amd. Ord. 790, 5-26-2020)
3-1-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The mayor shall be the liquor control commissioner (hereafter "liquor control
commissioner" or "commissioner"). The commissioner of parks, public health and
safety shall be the deputy liquor control commissioner who shall have the
powers and duties of the commissioner in his absence. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for retail sale in the city any alcoholic
beverage without having a retailer's license ("license"), or in violation of
the terms of such license.
   A.   License Privileges: A retailer's license shall allow the licensee to
sell or offer for sale alcoholic beverages, at retail only and not for resale
in any form, on the premises in accordance with the classification of said
license as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Nature Of License As Property: Any license granted shall not be subject
to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered for
the subject matter in lien. Such license shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee, provided that the executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when
such estate consists in part of alcoholic beverages under order of the
appropriate court, may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or
bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but no longer than six (6)
months after the death, insolvency or bankruptcy of such licensee.
   C.   License Term: Licenses shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on the day of December 31 next following its issuance, unless renewed by
payment of the quarterly fees pursuant to section
3-1-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-4: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS:
Retailer's licenses shall be divided into five (5) classes as follows:
CLASS A: Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale of "alcoholic
beverages", as defined in section
3-1-1 of this chapter, on the premises specified for consumption on such
premises as well as other retail sales of such alcoholic beverages.
CLASS B: Class B licenses shall authorize the sale of "alcoholic beverages", as
defined in section
3-1-1 of this chapter, on the premises specified in packages or original
containers unopened, at retail, not to be consumed on such premises where sold.
CLASS C: Class C licenses shall authorize the retail sale of "beer" or "wine",
as defined in section
3-1-1 of this chapter, on the premises specified for consumption on such
premises only.
CLASS D: Class D licenses shall authorize the retail sale of "beer" or "wine",
as defined in this chapter, on the site specified for consumption on such site
in connection with a special event of no more than two (2) days held by a
special event retailer. Such licenses shall be issued only to said special
event retailer.
CLASS E: Class E licenses shall authorize the sale of "alcoholic beverages", as
defined in section
3-1-1 of this chapter, on the premises specified in packages or original
containers unopened, not to be consumed on such premises where sold. Provided
however, this license shall also allow for consumption of "beer" and "wine" on
the premises limited to a restricted area where: a) that restricted area
contains a legitimate video gaming terminal or terminals as defined by 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5 of the Illinois "video gaming act", b) the
restricted area is restricted to persons over the age of twenty one (21) years,
c) the restricted area is actively and openly monitored on a consistent and
continuing basis by at least one employee of the licensee who is over the age
of twenty one (21) (a security camera or other monitoring camera does not
qualify as monitoring of the restricted area), d) sale for consumption of beer
and wine in the restricted area on the premises shall only be made incidental
to the use of the video gaming terminals in the restricted area and not merely
for general consumption within the restricted area, e) the license holder must
install a door, partition or gate (not rope or similar barrier) to impede entry
to the restricted area, but the barrier must not visually obscure the entrance
to the gaming area from the employee charged with monitoring it, f) all video
gaming terminals must be located in an area that is not readily visible from
outside the establishment, and g) video gaming terminals may only be used
during the hours of sale or consumption as set forth in subsection
3-1-8B of this chapter.
SPECIAL EVENT RETAILERS: A special event retailer's license shall permit the
licensee to purchase beer from an Illinois licensed distributor, and shall
allow the licensee to sell and offer for sale, at retail, beer for use or
consumption, but not for resale in any form, and only at the location in the
license. An applicant for a special event retailer license must also submit
with the application proof satisfactory to the city council that the applicant
will provide dramshop liability insurance in the limits set forth in subsection
3-1-6B6 of this chapter. A special event retailer's license shall be issued for
a specific time period, not to exceed fifteen (15) days per licensee in any
twelve (12) month period.
All holders of a special event retailer's license will be required to enforce
the applicable social distancing mandates, including face masks for staff, and
other requirements that may be set forth from time to time by the Illinois
Department of Public Health. (Ord. 648, 12-9-2013; amd. Ord. 790, 5-26-2020)
3-1-5: LICENSE FEES, NUMBER ISSUED:
   A.   Fees, Number: The annual fees for licenses and the number authorized to
be issued at any one time shall be:
 
Class               Annual Fee Number
   Class A       $1,000.00  4
   Class B       1,000.00
   Class C       100.00
   Class D, per d25.00
   Class E       1,000.00
 
(Ord. 648, 12-9-2013)
   B.   Payment Of Fees:
      1.   Such fees shall be payable quarterly in advance before the first day
of January, April, July and October of each year. Fees for the first quarter of
operation by a licensee shall be paid at the time the application is filed and
shall be returned to the applicant by the city in the event that the
application is denied.
      2.   The quarterly fees for licenses issued during a quarter shall be
reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the
quarter. Failure to pay in advance the license fee for any quarter year shall
automatically and without any action on the part of the city revoke the license
at the expiration of the quarter year for which it was paid, and any sale of
alcoholic beverages by the licensee during the quarter year for which the
license is not paid shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      3.   All license fees herein shall be paid only during working hours of
the city clerk, which are eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon and one o'clock (1:00) P.M. to four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M., Monday
through Friday, excepting holidays. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-6: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Applications for such license shall be made in
writing by the applicant to the city clerk, accompanied by the applicable
license fee in cash, check or money order; the city clerk shall then refer
applications to the liquor control commissioner and shall transfer the license
fee in the same manner as all license fees received in that office. In the
event of an application by a partnership or corporation, a separate application
shall be made by each of the persons set forth in section
3-1-14 of this chapter, including managers or agents of a corporation. All such
applicants shall be subject to background checks, and the liquor control
commissioner has the authority to require fingerprints of such applicants. If a
change in ownership in any existing license is contemplated which will result
in additional or other individuals being subject to the application procedures
herein, such individuals shall file such application and obtain city council
approval prior to the change in ownership. (Ord. 373, 9-28-1998)
   B.   Classes A, B, C And E Application Contents:
      1.   Applications for a class A, B, C or E license under the terms of
this chapter shall be signed by the applicant, if an individual; or all
partners, if a partnership; or by all persons designated in section
3-1-14 of this chapter if a corporation. A separate application will be signed
and submitted by each individual if more than one individual is required to
sign an application. The application shall contain the following: (Ord. 648,
12-9-2013)
         a.   The name and residence address of the applicant;
         b.   That he is a citizen of the United States;
         c.   His place of birth and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and
place of naturalization;
         d.   That he has never been convicted of a felony;
         e.   The location where he proposes to sell alcoholic beverages;
         f.   That the proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100')
of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or for
veterans, their wives or children, or any military or naval station; provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs or to food shops or other places where the
sale of malt and vinous beverages is the principal business carried on;
provided further, that such places so exempted shall have been established for
such purposes prior to the taking effect of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.
      2.   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a liquor
license on the same or other premises which has been either denied, suspended
or revoked and the date and place of such revocation, suspension or denial with
reasons thereof.
      3.   The date and place of any conviction of a crime of the applicant.
      4.   A statement that the applicant is completely familiar with the terms
and provisions of this chapter.
      5.   A statement that the applicant is not disqualified from receiving a
liquor license by reason of any provisions of the laws of the state.
      6.   A statement that the applicant has insurance issued by an insurance
carrier authorized to do business with the state ensuring the business under
the dramshop laws of the state, reflecting dramshop insurance coverage in
amounts of not less than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per person and
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per occurrence. Such insurance coverage
shall be for the full term of the license for which application is made and a
certificate of such insurance shall be provided to the city prior to approval
of the application.
      7.   The names of the persons or person who will manage the business of
or will be the agent of the applicant in supervising the business operation.
      8.   The names of any public office held by the applicant; and partner,
if a partnership; officers, directors and owners of more than ten percent (10%)
of the stock thereof, if a corporation.
      9.   All applicants shall be required to show satisfactorily that they
are of good moral character. In case of a partnership, the information required
by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and in case of a
corporation, as to the officers, directors and owners of more than ten percent
(10%) of the stock thereof.
   C.   Class D Application Contents: Applications for a class D license under
the terms of this chapter shall be signed by the duly authorized agent(s) of
the applicant. The application shall be submitted to the city clerk not later
than fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the scheduled event. The
application shall contain the following:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the nonprofit organization
making application.
      2.   Names, addresses and titles of all officers and directors of said
organization.
      3.   Type of event, date and hours of event, and common description of
the location for which license is requested.
      4.   The information required in subsections B1, B2, B4, B5 and B6 of
this section.
   D.   Application Approval Procedures: The application shall be addressed to
the city council, and shall be transmitted to that body. The city council shall
pass upon all applications for licenses under this chapter, and if the
applicant has complied with the terms and provisions of this chapter, a license
shall be issued to him. No license shall be issued until the fee for the first
quarter has been paid in cash in advance and the bond and certificate of
dramshop insurance have been filed and approved. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-7: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Each applicant for class A, B, C or E license hereunder
shall execute a penal bond to the city in the sum of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) with a surety company licensed to do business in the state. Such
bond shall be for the full term of the license for which application is made,
or for such longer period that the licensee may desire. Licensee shall ensure
that a valid bond shall be in effect for any period during which a retailer's
license is in effect. The city council shall consider the bond and shall have
the right to disapprove the bond. (Ord. 648, 12-9-2013)
   B.   Filing Of Bond: Said bond shall be filed with the city clerk at the
same time application is presented and shall be referred by the city clerk to
the city council with the application.
   C.   Bond Conditions: Said bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
observance by the licensee of this chapter and provisions of all liquor laws of
the state and all laws of the United States applying to the sale,
transportation and possession of alcoholic beverages. Said bond shall be
further conditioned upon the payment by the persons entitled to damages as a
result of any sale, occurrence, transaction or injury which arises from the
operation of the business for which the license hereto applies. (Ord. 314,
1994)
3-1-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   No license shall be issued for sale at retail of any alcoholic
beverage at a location prohibited by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-11, as
amended.
      2.   A location may be changed only upon written permit to make such
changes issued by the city council. (Ord. 314, 1994)
   B.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful on class A, B, C or E licensed
premises to sell or offer for sale at retail or allow the consumption of any
alcoholic beverages except during the following hours:
 
Days                               Hours
Monday through Saturday, inclusive 7:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M. the following day
Sunday                             12:00 P.M. - 12:00 A.M.
 
      1.   When December 31 falls on Sunday, such hours to be from twelve
o’clock (12:00) P.M. to two o’clock (2:00) A.M. New Year’s Day.
      2.   In connection with this provision as to hours of operation, such
hours of operation in the case of class A and C licensees shall be construed to
mean that the licensed premises shall be closed, vacated and locked as of the
hours specified above. Class B and E licensees may remain open for sale of
items other than alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Display Of License: Every licensee shall cause his license to be framed
and displayed in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   D.   Transfer Of License: Any person, having a license under this chapter
who ceases to sell alcoholic beverages under said license may transfer it to
any qualified person with the consent of the city council pursuant to the same
criteria as used for proposal of new licenses under this chapter. The proposed
transferee shall make an application and file a bond in like manner as an
original applicant. After initial approval of application, no license fee paid
to the city shall be returned to the licensee under any circumstances or
conditions.
   E.   All Fees Current: It shall be a condition of each license that all city
fees and charges, including, but not limited to, water and sewer charges, be
current on the licensed premises. By "current" is meant that there are no
unpaid fees past the due date of any bill. No liquor license shall be issued or
renewed for any calendar quarter unless all such fees are current at
commencement of the license and at the start of such quarter. Failure to be
current for any quarter shall automatically and without any action on the part
of the city revoke the license at the commencement of the quarter, and any sale
of alcoholic beverage by the licensee during the quarter for which such fees
are not paid shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 314, 1994;
amd. Ord. 564, 4-13-2009; Ord. 648, 12-9-2013; Ord. 842, 10-11-2022)
3-1-9: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the
laws of the state and the applicable ordinances of McLean County regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-10: LIVE BANDS AND ENTERTAINMENT:
Any licensee must request and receive permission from the city council to have
on the premises any live bands or entertainment. The licensee or representative
should make such request at a regularly scheduled city council meeting, for a
specific date and hours. The city council, in determining whether to grant such
request, may take into consideration the past history of the licensee for
compliance with the terms of this chapter for fights or disturbances on the
premises, the likelihood that the requested event will result in public
disturbances, and such other considerations concerning public peace and welfare
that the city council deems appropriate, and may refuse permission for such
event on a case by case basis. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-11: OUTSIDE LIQUOR FACILITIES (BEER GARDENS):
As an adjunct to any existing class A license in the city, a licensee may
operate an outside facility on the licensed premises for the sale, use and
consumption of alcoholic beverages lawfully used on the licensed premises under
the following restrictions:
   A.   Application by the licensee for such facility shall be made to and
approval or disapproval given by the city council prior to construction. The
application shall indicate the dimensions and proposed layout of the facility
and method and materials of construction;
   B.   There will be no live or recorded outdoor entertainment, or speakers or
amplifiers on the outside premises;
   C.   The premises shall be surrounded by a six foot (6') high fence of solid
construction, such that there will be no visual access to the premises from the
surrounding street or areas;
   D.   There shall be no entryway or exits to or from the outside premises
except through the building housing the licensed establishment, except that
there shall be emergency exits satisfactory to the fire marshal and other
appropriate regulatory bodies, if any, to provide emergency passage from the
premises;
   E.   The liquor control commissioner may terminate the use of such outdoor
facilities for any licensed premises upon a showing that any of the provisions
of this section are not being followed by the licensee, or that the use of the
premises is detrimental to the health and safety of adjoining property owners
or lessees or the public in general. (Ord. 353, 7-14-1997)
3-1-12: DOORS TO REMAIN CLOSED:
For all liquor licensees of all classes, outside doors to the licensed premises
shall be closed while the premises are in operation, or when live or recorded
music is being played on the premises. For purposes of this section, the term
"outside door" shall be construed to mean a solid all weather door, and all
doorways to licensed premises must have such a door as herein described. (Ord.
353, 7-14-1997)
3-1-13: MINORS IN LICENSED PREMISES; EXCEPTIONS, BURDEN OF PROOF 1 :
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to enter, to be or remain in any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor
is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise served for consumption on the premises;
except that any person under the age of twenty one (21) years may be or remain
on the premises:
      1.   If accompanied by his parent(s) or legally appointed guardian; or
      2.   If more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross business income
received therein results from the sale of services or commodities other than
alcoholic liquor; or
      3.   If legally employed by the license holder of the premises or by an
authorized representative thereof, and if the person is actively performing his
duties as a legal employee at the time in question.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder, or the licensee's
officer, partner, associate, representative, agent or employee, to suffer or
permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to be or remain in the
portion of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured, mixed
or otherwise served for consumption on the premises; except that any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years may be or remain in such premises:
      1.   If accompanied by his parent(s) or legally appointed guardian; or
      2.   If more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross business income
received therein results from the sale of services or commodities other than
alcoholic liquor; or
      3.   If legally employed by the license holder of the premises or by an
authorized representative thereof, and if the person is actively performing his
duties as a legal employee at the time in question.
   C.   If any licensee has on its premises a separate room where more than
fifty percent (50%) of the gross income received therein results from the sale
of services or commodities other than alcoholic liquor, then such person under
the age of twenty one (21) years may remain in such room only.
   D.   The defendant/respondent in any court or administrative hearing shall
have the burden of proving as an affirmative defense subsection A1, A2, A3, B1,
B2 or B3 of this section, and the prosecutor shall have no responsibility to
prove that any of said exemptions do not apply therein. (Ord. 353, 7-14-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2-7-4 of this code.
3-1-14: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license under the terms of this chapter shall be issued to any person
ineligible for a license under the terms of the Illinois Liquor Control Act 235
ILCS 5/6-2 with an exception of any residency requirements of the Illinois
Liquor Control Act are hereby explicitly waived. (Ord. 814, 4-13-2021)
3-1-15: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Minors, Restriction On Sales: No licensee shall sell, give or deliver
alcoholic beverages to any person under the age provided by the law of the
state for purchasing or possessing alcoholic beverages 1 , or to any
intoxicated or disorderly person, or to any person known to him to be an
habitual drunkard. No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall sell, draw,
pour, mix or otherwise serve for consumption any alcoholic liquor in any
licensed retail premises. (Ord. 314, 1994)
   B.   Consumption: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit any person
to consume alcoholic beverages on class B licensed premises at any time or on
class A, C or E licensed premises except during the hours allowed by this
chapter or on class D licensed premises except during the hours when the
license permits such sale. (Ord. 648, 12-9-2013)
   C.   Peddling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle
alcoholic liquor in the city.
   D.   Unsealed Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry any
alcoholic beverages in any unsealed or opened container from the premises where
such alcoholic beverage was purchased, and it shall be unlawful for any
licensee or person acting as agent, servant, or employee of such licensee to
knowingly permit any patron to carry any alcoholic beverages in an unsealed or
opened container from the premises of said licensee.
   E.   Disturbances: Each licensee and each of his agents, servants and
employees shall promptly report to the city police department any outbreak of
any fights, riots or disturbances of the peace, or any other event occurring on
or about the premises which in the licensee's knowledge or opinion constitutes
the commission of a crime as prohibited by the laws of the state and/or the
United States and/or this chapter, and shall truthfully and fully answer all
questions and fully cooperate in any investigation by any member of the police
department who makes inquiry of any persons on or about the premises.
   F.   Immoral Practices: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or person
acting as agent, servant or employee of such licensee to provide, suffer, or
permit any act, conduct or entertainment on the premises in such a manner as to
expose to public view:
      1.   Male or female genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region, or pubic hair region;
      2.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
      3.   Any device, film, costume, or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the above listed body parts;
      4.   The use of tassels, pasties, stars, or transparent material for
coverage of the above listed body parts;
      5.   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, cunnilingus,
anilingus, fellatio, flagellation, sadomasochism or any other sexual acts
prohibited by law;
      6.   The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus,
genitals, perineum or pubic hair region;
      7.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth above. (Ord. 314, 1994)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-16 for age limitations.
3-1-16: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Owner Of Premises Permitting Violation: If the owner of the licensed
premises or any person from whom the licensee derives the right to possession
of such premises, or the agent of such owner or persons, shall knowingly permit
the licensee to use said licensed premises in violation of the terms of this
chapter, said owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of any
violation of this chapter to the same extent as said licensee and be subject to
the same punishment.
   B.   Acts Of Agent Or Employee: Every act or omission constituting a
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter made with the authorization,
knowledge, or approval of the licensee, expressed or implied, shall be deemed
the act of the licensee, and said licensee shall be punishable in the same
manner as if said act or omission has been done or omitted by him personally.
   C.   Grounds For Violation: The Commissioner may consider it a violation of
this Chapter if any of the following are committed:
      1.   If the Commissioner determines that the licensee has violated any of
the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act or any of the provisions of
this Chapter;
      2.   Whenever any licensee shall be found under the terms of this Chapter
to be in violation of this Chapter;
      3.   Whenever any officer, director, manager or other employee in a
position of authority of a licensee under this Chapter shall be convicted of
any violation of this Chapter while engaged in the course of his employment or
while upon the premises described by said license;
      4.   Upon payment by the licensee of any Federal tax imposed on gambling
or gambling equipment under the United States Code;
      5.   Upon the licensee maintaining or operating a dram shop on any
premises registered as a place of business when activities are carried on which
make the person or persons so carrying on subject to any tax on wagering;
      6.   Upon the licensee permitting gambling of any kind to be conducted on
the premises where the licensee carries on his business;
      7.   Upon a finding by the Commissioner that an applicant or licensee
wilfully made any false statement as to a material fact in an application for a
license;
      8.   If a licensee permits any disorderly or immoral practices upon the
licensed premises. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-17: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Entry Upon Premises: The Liquor Control Commissioner shall have
authority to enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by it, or State
liquor regulations have been or are violated, and at such time to examine said
premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
   B.   Complaints: Any person shall have the right to file a complaint with
the Liquor Control Commissioner stating that any retail licensee, subject to
the jurisdiction of the City, has been or is violating the provisions of this
Chapter or any rules or regulations pursuant hereto. Any law enforcement
officer or other person who desires to file a complaint shall prepare and
submit said complaint to the Liquor Control Commissioner, who shall cause a
copy of said complaint to be mailed by first class mail to the accused licensee
at the official address listed on the liquor license application. Said
complaint shall be in writing and shall be signed and sworn to by the
complaining party. It shall state the particulars of the alleged violations,
including the date and place of the violation, the nature of the violation and
the particular sections of the ordinance or statute violated.
   C.   Prehearing Procedures:
      1.   After receiving a complaint or on the Commissioner's own motion, the
Liquor Control Commissioner shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten
(10) days and no more than ninety (90) days from the date of receipt of such
complaint. The Commissioner shall cause notice to be served on the accused
party by delivery at the official address listed on the liquor license
application by first class mail or personal service at the same location, which
notice shall include a statement of the time, date and place of the hearing and
a reference to the complaint upon which the hearing is based.
      2.   At the request of the accused party, the City Attorney shall, prior
to the hearing, furnish the accused or his attorney a copy of all police
reports or other written reports concerning the violations alleged in the
complaint.
   D.   Hearing Procedures:
      1.   Any party to a hearing who desires such may be represented by legal
counsel. The accused party shall be afforded the opportunity to respond and
present evidence and argument, to call witnesses and to compel the attendance
of witnesses by subpoena.
      2.   All witnesses who testify shall do so under oath. (Ord. 314, 1994)
      3.   Upon revoking or suspending any license, the Liquor Control
Commissioner, at the next regular meeting of the City Council, shall report
such fact to said body, together with his reason therefor. If the City Council
does not disaffirm the action, then revocation or suspension shall remain in
force. If the City Council disaffirms the action, the licensee may resume
business under his license without further authority. The licensee shall not
operate under his license between the time of any revocation or suspension by
the Commissioner and the aforesaid report to the City Council, and if said
action is disaffirmed, the licensee shall be entitled to no refund of his
license fee and shall have no claim against the Commissioner or the City on
account of being closed during said time. A person whose license has been
finally revoked or suspended shall not be entitled to any refund on account of
the license fee he already has paid. The acceptance of a license under this
Chapter shall constitute an agreement on the part of the licensee that the
license so issued may be revoked as provided in this Section. Such final
decision or order in a case shall be in writing or stated in the record.
Parties to the case shall be notified in writing, personally or by registered
or certified mail, of any decision or order. At the conclusion of all of the
evidence, the Liquor Control Commissioner shall make a determination as to
whether there has been a violation of any of the terms of this Chapter, and if
there has been such a violation, shall set the penalty therefor. (Ord. 314,
1994; amd. 2000 Code)
      4.   Unless precluded by law, disposition may be made of any case by
stipulation, agreed settlement, consent order or default, at any stage in the
proceedings. If the Commissioner does not concur with any proposed disposition
by stipulation or settlement, the hearing shall proceed to completion.
      5.   Compliance with any or all of the provisions for hearings may be
waived by written stipulation of all the parties, subject to the approval of
the Commissioner. (Ord. 314, 1994)
3-1-18: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense and for the second or subsequent offense fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In
addition, the Liquor Control Commissioner may on any violations suspend for not
more than thirty (30) days or may revoke any license issued by it and require
the forfeiture of the license fee and the licensee's bond. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 314, 1994)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Applicability Of Chapter
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: License Procedures, Conditions
3-2-4: Comply With Other Regulations
3-2-5: Violation, Penalty
3-2-1: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all dance halls, public shows,
theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the City whether specifically
licensed under another chapter or not. (1964 Code Ch. 9 Art. II; Ord. 46, 1967)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement, such as a dance, public
show, theatrical, circus or other amusement in the City without first having
obtained a license therefor. (1964 Code Ch. 9 Art. II; Ord. 46, 1967)
3-2-3: LICENSE PROCEDURES, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Application, Contents: Any person desiring to have a license to operate
a dance hall, public show, theatrical, circus or other amusement in the City
shall first make a written application to the City Clerk, in which application,
said person shall state: (1964 Code Ch. 9 Art II; Ord. 46, 1967; amd. 2000
Code)
      1.   The intended location of the place of business, describe the
premises in which such dance hall, public show, theatrical, circus of other
amusement shall be carried on, and the time and places of operation thereof;
      2.   The application shall show, to the satisfaction of the City Council,
that the person to obtain the license is of good moral character;
      3.   In the event of a partnership or corporation, said information shall
be given as to all partners or principal officers of said partnership or
corporation;
      4.   The application shall be accompanied by a penal bond in the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) with surety or sureties to be approved by the
City Council.
   B.   Issuance, Term:
      1.   If the City Council grants the application and approves the bond,
the City Clerk shall forthwith issue a license under the seal of the City,
which license shall be signed by the Mayor and City Clerk.
      2.   No license shall be issued for a term extending beyond the municipal
year in which the same is issued.
   C.   Assure Additional Police Protection Not Required: As a condition of the
issuance of any license, as provided in this Chapter, the person desiring to
obtain the license shall, in a manner satisfactory to the City Council, assure
the City that there shall be no undue necessity for additional police
protection and management in order to preserve and maintain law and order in
and around the City as a result of the operation of the dance hall, public
show, theatrical, circus or other amusement. (1964 Code Ch. 9 Art. II; Ord. 46,
1967)
3-2-4: COMPLY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
The application shall show that the premises to be licensed will comply with
all fire and other regulations of the City, in reference to the assemblage of
people or persons in a given area. (1964 Code Ch. 9 Art. II; Ord. 46, 1967)
3-2-5: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined for
each offense as provided for in the general penalty provisions of Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation of any provision of this Chapter shall occur
or continue. (1964 Code Ch. 9 Art. II; Ord. 46, 1967; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Permit Required
3-3-3: Application For Permit, Issuance
3-3-4: Conditions Of Permit
3-3-5: Hours Of Operation
3-3-6: Violations, Penalty, Revocation
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words have the definitions
herein set out:
LOCAL: Organizations having a membership predominantly of individuals who
reside in Chenoa or its immediate environs.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes
contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING: Any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs or services, of any kind, character or description whatever, for any
kind of consideration whatever; or
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project, with the exception of
charitable or nonprofit associations, organizations, corporations or projects
of an essentially local character; or
   E.   Peddling or hawking any merchandise, article or thing. (Ord. 125, 1979)
3-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in soliciting from persons in
residences within the City, or to solicit persons in public locations within
the City, or to approach motor vehicles for purposes of solicitation within the
City, without having first obtained a permit for that purpose. (Ord. 722, 3-27-
2017)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT, ISSUANCE:
   A.   Information Required: Any person desiring to secure such a solicitor's
permit shall apply therefor in writing over his signature to the Chief of
Police or his duly authorized representative on forms provided by the City, and
such application shall state:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The name and address of the person by whom employed;
      3.   The length of service or residence and nature of the employment of
the applicant during the last preceding year;
      4.   The nature or character of the goods, wares, or merchandise to be
offered by the applicant;
      5.   The personal description of the applicant; and
      6.   The models and license plate numbers of the vehicles to be used.
   B.   Additional Credentials: Such application shall be accompanied by such
credentials and other evidence of the identity, honesty and good character of
the applicant as may reasonably be required by the Chief of Police. Such
applicant shall pay to the Chief of Police the fee as stated in subsection
3-3-4A of this chapter to cover the expense of granting and policing such
permit.
   C.   Issuance: If the Chief of Police determines, after reasonable
investigation, that the applicant has presented reasonable evidence of his
honesty and good character, and intends to engage in a lawful and legitimate
commercial or professional enterprise, he shall then issue the permit applied
for. (Ord. 125, 1979)
3-3-4: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   The City will issue daily permits for purposes of solicitation at a
rate of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
   B.   The daily permit shall expire at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the day of
its issuance unless a waiver of such provision is allowed by the City to expire
at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. Permits that are allowed such waiver will
be issued at a rate of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per day.
   C.   The applicant to which permit is issued will carry at all times the
permit when soliciting and will exhibit the permit when requested by a police
officer or person solicited. Failure to do so will result in immediate
revocation of license without refund of the permit fee. (Ord. 722, 3-27-2017)
3-3-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
It is unlawful and constitutes a nuisance for any person, whether registered
under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon
or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door,
or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of
the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with
the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. of any day, Monday through Saturday inclusive, or at any time on
Sunday, or on a State or national holiday. (Ord. 125, 1979; amd. Ord. 722, 3-
27-2017)
3-3-6: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY, REVOCATION:
   A.   Fraud: Any licensed solicitor who is guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or through an employee, while acting
as a solicitor in the City, or who solicits any goods, wares or merchandise
other than those specified in his application for a permit, shall be fined in
accordance with the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code, and the Chief of Police may revoke his permit.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: Any permit shall be revoked by the Chief of
Police if the holder of the permit violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, or has made a false material statement in the application, or ceases
to possess the character and qualifications required by this chapter for the
issuance of the permit under the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 125, 1979)
   C.   Fine: An individual or business found soliciting within the Chenoa City
limits without a permit shall be fined two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
each instance of such violation. In addition to this fine, the City reserves
the right, in all instances, to apply the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code for repeat violators of this Code. (Ord. 722, 3-27-2017)
CHAPTER 4
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Applicability Of Chapter
3-4-3: Massage Establishment Permits
3-4-3-1: Permits Required
3-4-3-2: Application For Permit
3-4-3-3: Issuance Procedures
3-4-3-4: Fees
3-4-3-5: Conditions Of Permit
3-4-4: Massage Therapist Permits
3-4-4-1: Permits Required
3-4-4-2: Application For Permit
3-4-4-3: Issuance Procedures
3-4-4-4: Fees
3-4-4-5: Identification Cards
3-4-4-6: Grounds For Revocation Or Suspension, Appeals
3-4-5: Hours Of Operation
3-4-6: Minimum Requirements For Facilities
3-4-7: Operating Requirements
3-4-8: Advertising Restrictions
3-4-9: Employment Restrictions
3-4-10: Out-Call Services
3-4-11: Inspections By City Officers
3-4-12: Renewal Of Permits
3-4-13: License Or Permit Revocation Or Suspension
3-4-14: Violation, Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
EMPLOYEE: Any and all persons, other than the massage therapist, who render any
service to the permittee, who receive compensation directly from the permittee
and who have no physical contact with customers and clients.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Director of the McLean County Health Department or his
authorized representative.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a fixed place of business where
any person, firm, association or corporation engages in, or carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities of the practice of
massage.
MASSAGE OR PRACTICE OF MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against,
or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of
the external soft parts of the body with the hands or with the aid of any
mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance, with or without such
supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder,
creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in
the practice of massage.
OUT-CALL MASSAGE SERVICE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in
or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than at a massage establishment.
PERMITTEE OR LICENSEE: The operator or owner, if an individual, of a massage
establishment.
PERSON: Any individual, copartnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any
person and the breasts of a female. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-2: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes, sanitaria or persons
holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the healing arts under the laws of
the State, or persons working under the direction of any such persons or in any
such establishments; nor shall this Chapter apply to barbers or cosmetologists
lawfully carrying out their particular profession or business and holding a
valid, unrevoked license or certificate of registration issued by the State.
(Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-3: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS:
3-4-3-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or to permit
to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in the City,
the operation of a massage establishment without first having obtained a permit
therefor. (Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing: Every applicant for permit to maintain, operate or conduct a
massage establishment shall file an application with the City Clerk.
   B.   Information Required: The applicant for a permit to operate a massage
establishment shall furnish the following information:
      1.   Name (including any alias), home address, and address of the
proposed massage establishment;
      2.   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age;
      3.   All residential addresses for the past three (3) years;
      4.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the four
(4) years immediately preceding the date of application;
      5.   The massage or similar business license or permit history of the
applicant, i.e., whether such person, in previously operating in this or
another city or state under a license or permit, has had such license or permit
revoked or suspended, the reason therefore, and the business activity or
occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation;
      6.   All criminal or City ordinance violation convictions, including
forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo contendere, on all Federal, State and
local charges, except minor traffic violations;
      7.   A recent photograph of the applicant;
      8.   If the applicant is a corporation, or a partner of a partnership; if
a corporation, the name of the corporation exactly as shown in its articles of
incorporation;
      9.   A drawing or written description which adequately describes the
space in the building where the massage business of the applicant is to be
conducted;
      10.   The information required in subsection B1 through B9 above for the
following individuals:
         a.   The operator, manager or owner,
         b.   Any partner or limited partner of a partnership application,
         c.   Any officer, director, or greater than ten percent (10%)
stockholder of a corporate applicant, or corporate partner of a partnership.
   C.   Referral To Officers For Investigation: The City Clerk shall, within
five (5) days, refer copies of the applications to the appropriate officers
designated in subsection
3-4-3-3A of this Chapter. Within thirty (30) days, these officers shall inspect
the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment and make
recommendations to the City Council concerning compliance with the codes that
they administer, and with the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 109, 1977;
amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-3-3: ISSUANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Inspections And Investigations By City Officers: The City Council shall
issue no permit or permit renewal for the conduct, operation or maintenance of
the massage establishment proposed in the application until the following
officers, after inspection or investigation, report favorably as to the matters
indicated below:
      1.   Health Officer: The health officer shall inspect and report in
connection with the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease.
      2.   Plumbing Inspector, Building Inspector And Electrical Inspector: The
plumbing, building and electrical inspectors shall inspect and report in
connection with full compliance with respective City plumbing, building and
electrical ordinances 1 .
      3.   Chief Of Police: The Chief of Police shall investigate and report in
connection with the accuracy of the information required above in subsection
3-4-3-2B of this Chapter:
         a.   The Chief of Police shall report favorably if he finds no
substantial inaccuracies in the information furnished and shall not report
favorably if investigative findings show substantial inaccuracies, and he shall
not report favorably if investigative findings show that an applicant for any
license or permit is a person whose license issued under this Chapter is in a
period of suspension or revocation, that the premises for which any person has
submitted an application is subject to a suspension or revocation as provided
in subsection
3-4-3-5A2 of this Section, or that an applicant is a person who does not
beneficially own the premises or the business for which a massage establishment
license or permit is sought or does not have a lease on such premises for the
full period for which the license or permit is to be issued.
         b.   The Chief of Police shall not report favorably if investigative
findings show that, within four (4) years of the date of the application, the
applicant or any other person who will be directly or indirectly engaged in the
management or operations of a massage establishment has been convicted of:
            (1)   A felony,
            (2)   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children,
            (3)   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pandering, keeping
or residing in a place of prostitution, pimping or any other offense involving
moral turpitude in relation to sexual conduct.
         c.   The Chief of Police may delegate the investigative inspecting and
reporting responsibilities imposed by this Section.
   B.   Issuing Conditions:
      1.   Upon receipt of recommendations of the officers referred to in
subsection A of this Section and the certificate of the health officer that the
establishment is in compliance with all the requirements of Section
3-4-6 of this Chapter, the City Council shall issue a permit to maintain,
operate or conduct a massage establishment, unless he finds:
         a.   That the operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted,
would not have complied with all applicable laws, including, but not limited
to, the building, health, planning, housing, zoning and fire ordinances of the
City; or 2
         b.   That the applicant or any other person who will be directly or
indirectly engaged in the management and operation of a massage establishment
has been convicted of:
            (1)   A felony,
            (2)   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children,
            (3)   Prostitution, solicitation for a prostitute, pandering,
keeping a place of prostitution or other offense opposed to decency and
morality.
      2.   The City Council, at its discretion, may issue a permit to any
person convicted of any of the crimes in subsection B1b of this Section if he
finds that such conviction occurred at least four (4) years prior to the date
of the application, the applicant has no subsequent convictions, and the
applicant has shown evidence of rehabilitation sufficient to warrant the public
trust.
   C.   Action By City Council:
      1.   Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the recommendations of the
officers mentioned in subsection A of this Section, the City Council shall
notify the applicant that his application is granted, denied or held for
further investigation. The period of such additional investigation shall not
exceed an additional thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed to by the
applicant. Upon the conclusion of such additional investigation, the City
Council shall advise the applicant in writing whether the application is
granted or denied.
      2.   Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation,
the City Council shall advise the applicant in writing for the reasons for such
actions.
      3.   The failure or refusal of the applicant to promptly give any
information relevant to the investigation of the application, or his refusal to
submit or to cooperate with any inspection required by this Chapter, shall
constitute an admission by the applicant that he is ineligible for such permit
and shall be grounds for denial thereof by the City Council. (Ord. 109, 1977;
amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
2 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
3-4-3-4: FEES:
Every such applicant shall pay a nonrefundable application fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to the City Treasurer. Upon approval of the application, but
before issuance of the permit, as provided in this Chapter, the applicant shall
pay an additional fee for the permit of three hundred dollars ($300.00). This
fee shall be an annual fee for the permit. (Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-3-5: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Term Of Permit:
      1.   Every massage establishment permit will terminate at the expiration
of one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner suspended or revoked.
      2.   During the period of revocation or suspension of any license or
permit issued to an owner or operator for a massage establishment, no person
shall engage in, or permit any other person to engage in, massage or the
practice of massage on the premises of the massage establishment so licensed.
During the period of revocation any license or permit issued pursuant to this
Section, no license or permit shall be issued to any person or for any
premises, subject to an order of revocation, for a period of one year
thereafter for a massage establishment or as a massage therapist. A period of
suspension imposed upon any license or permit issued pursuant to this Section
may extend beyond the period for which a license or permit has been issued, but
such period of suspension shall not exceed eight (8) months for any single
period of suspension.
   B.   Transfer Of Permit: No permit for the operation of a massage
establishment issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be
transferable. However, upon the death or incapacity of the permittee, the
massage establishment may continue in business for a reasonable period of time
to allow for an orderly transfer of the permit, but such period shall not
exceed sixty (60) days.
   C.   Permit Display: Every permittee shall display a valid permit in a
conspicuous place within the massage establishment so that the same may be
readily seen by persons entering the premises. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-4: MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMITS:
3-4-4-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, including an applicant for a massage
establishment license for any legal consideration, to massage any person or
engage in the practice of massage without having first obtained a massage
therapist permit. The application for a massage therapist permit shall be filed
with the City Clerk. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The applicant for a massage therapist permit shall furnish the following
information:
   A.   Name, including any alias, and address.
   B.   Social security number and driver's license number, if any; and written
evidence that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Applicant's weight, height, color of hair and eyes.
   D.   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the four (4)
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   E.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of, pleaded nolo
contendere to, or suffered a forfeiture on a bond in relation to charges of
committing any Federal, State or local crime, except minor traffic violations.
If the answer is in the affirmative, a statement must be made giving the place
and the court in which such conviction plea or forfeiture was had, the specific
charge under which the conviction plea or forfeiture was obtained and the
sentence imposed.
   F.   A recent photograph of the applicant.
   G.   The results of a physical examination for contagious and communicable
diseases, which shall include a recognized blood test for syphilis, a culture
for gonorrhea, a test or tests which will demonstrate freedom from
tuberculosis, which is to be made and interpreted by a licensed physician
acceptable to the health officer and such other laboratory tests done in a
laboratory acceptable to the health officer, as may be necessitated by the
above examination; a certificate based upon the applicant's physical
examination and issued within thirty (30) days of such examination, signed by a
physician duly licensed by the State and stating that the person examined is
either free from any contagious or communicable disease or incapable of
communicating any of such diseases to others. Applicant shall undergo the
physical examination referred to above and submit to the health officer the
certificate required herein prior to commencement of their employment and at
least once every twelve (12) months thereafter.
   H.   Demonstrable evidence of training and knowledge in the area of massage
and the practice of massage. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-4-3: ISSUANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The City Council shall issue a massage therapist permit within thirty
(30) days following application, unless an investigative report of the Chief of
Police indicates that, within four (4) years of the date of application, the
applicant for massage therapist permit has been convicted of: (Ord. 109, 1977;
amd. 2000 Code)
      1.   A felony,
      2.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children,
      3.   Keeping or residing in a place of prostitution, solicitation for a
prostitute, prostitution, pandering or any other offense involving moral
turpitude in relation to sexual conduct.
   B.   After reviewing the information furnished by the applicant, further
investigation is at the option of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-4-4: FEES:
The applicant for a massage therapist permit shall pay to the City Treasurer a
nonrefundable filing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an original application
and twenty dollars ($20.00) for annual renewal of such permit. No application
shall be processed by any department until the application fee is paid in full.
(Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-4-5: IDENTIFICATION CARDS:
The City Clerk shall provide each massage therapist granted a permit with an
identification card which shall contain a photograph of the massage therapist
and the full name and permit number assigned to the massage therapist, which
must be worn on the front of the outermost garment at all times during the
hours of operation of any establishment granted a permit pursuant to this
Chapter. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-4-6: GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION, APPEALS:
   A.   A massage therapist permit issued by the City Clerk shall be revoked
where it appears that the massage therapist has been convicted of any offense
which would be cause for denial of a permit upon an original application, has
made a false statement on an application for a permit, or has committed an act
in violation of this Chapter.
   B.   The City Council, in revoking or suspending a massage therapist permit,
shall give the permit holder a written notice specifying the grounds therefor.
Such person may, within ten (10) days of such revocation or suspension, file a
written request with the City Clerk for a public hearing before the City
Council, at which time the massage therapist may present evidence bearing upon
the question. The same appeal procedures will be in effect as in Section
3-4-13 of this Chapter. The decision of the City Council upon such hearing
shall be a final, appealable order. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No massage establishment shall be open between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-6: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES:
   A.   No massage establishment shall be issued a permit, nor be operated,
established or maintained in the City unless an inspection by the health
officer reveals that the establishment complies with each of the following
minimum requirements:
      1.   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steambaths and showers
shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the building code of the City 1 .
      2.   All massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas and
floors shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected.
      3.   Adequate bathing, dressing and locker facilities shall be provided
for the patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and female
patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing, locker and
massage room facilities shall be provided.
      4.   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each person.
      5.   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas.
      6.   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each twenty (20) or fewer employees or
patrons of that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted
for water closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be
designated as to the sex accommodated therein.
      7.   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories
or washbasins shall be provided with soap, a dispenser and with sanitary
towels.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with a service sink for custodial
services.
   B.   The health officer shall certify or report that the proposed massage
establishment complies or does not comply with all the requirements of this
Section and shall send such certification or report to the City Clerk. (Ord.
109, 1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
3-4-7: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   B.   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
   C.   All employees, including massage therapists, shall be clean and wear
clean, nontransparent outer garments, covering the sexual and genital areas. A
separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the premises with
individual lockers for each employee.
   D.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each such
use thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   E.   The sexual or genital areas of patrons must be covered by towels,
cloths or undergarments when in the presence of an employee or massage
therapist.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage establishment,
knowingly, to place his hand upon, to touch with any part of his body, to
fondle in any manner or to massage a sexual or genital area of any other
person.
   G.   No massage therapist, employee or operator shall perform, offer or
agree to perform any act which would require the touching of a patron's genital
area.
   H.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms and
all other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms, or steam
or vapor cabinets, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly
cleaned each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall be
thoroughly cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on the floors, it
shall be kept dry.
   I.   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets.
   J.   Eating in the massage work area shall not be permitted. Animals except
for seeing-eye dogs, shall not be permitted in the massage work areas.
   K.   No massage therapist shall administer a massage on a patron's skin
inflammation, or skin eruption, unless a physician duly licensed by the State
certifies in writing that such person may be safely massaged on that area.
   L.   Each massage therapist shall wash his hands in hot running water, using
a proper soap or disinfectant before administering a massage to each patron.
(Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-8: ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS:
No massage establishment granted a permit under the provisions of this Chapter
shall place, publish or cause to be placed, published or distributed any
advertising matter that depicts any portion of the human body that would
reasonably suggest to prospective patrons that any services are available other
than authorized massage services. (Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-9: EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Minors: It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager or
other person in charge of any massage establishment to employ any person who is
not at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Massage Therapist Permit Requirements: It shall be the responsibility
of the permittee for the massage establishment or the employer of any persons
purporting to act as massage therapists to ensure that each person employed as
a massage therapist shall first have obtained a valid permit pursuant to this
Chapter. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-10: OUT-CALL SERVICES:
No out-call massage service may be operated other than by a licensed massage
establishment. All massages performed and advertising engaged in by an out-call
massage service must be done in a manner prescribed in Sections
3-4-7 and
3-4-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-11: INSPECTIONS BY CITY OFFICERS:
The Chief of Police and the health officer shall from time to time and at least
twice a year, make an inspection of each establishment granted a permit under
the provisions of this Chapter for the purposes of determining that there is
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. Such inspections shall be made
at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner. (Ord. 109, 1977)
3-4-12: RENEWAL OF PERMITS:
All persons who presently operate a massage establishment or who are employed
as a massage therapist must file for a permit within three (3) months of the
effective date of this Chapter. Applications for renewal of permits must be
filed not more than two (2) months nor less than one month prior to termination
of an existing permit. (Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-13: LICENSE OR PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Grounds, Fine:
      1.   Any license issued to an owner or operator of a massage
establishment or any permit issued to a massage therapist may be revoked or may
be suspended for any length of time during the remaining period of validity of
the license or permit for any violation by the licensee or permittee of the
provisions relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license
or permit or to the premises occupied by the massage establishment.
      2.   If in any twelve (12) month period any license or permit has been
suspended for any reason for any length of time two (2) or more times, or if
within that period any licensee or permittee has been penalized by any fine or
has forfeited any bond two (2) or more times pursuant to any action brought for
any violation of this Chapter, upon giving notice and an opportunity to be
heard in accordance with this Chapter, the City Council shall revoke that
license or permit.
      3.   Any revocation or suspension of any license or permit shall be in
addition to any fine imposed pursuant to Section
3-4-14 of this Chapter.
   B.   Notices Of Action:
      1.   No license or permit issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be
revoked or suspended without first giving the licensee or permittee notice of
such action and an opportunity to be heard in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter.
      2.   Before any license or permit is revoked or suspended, at least five
(5) days' written advance notice shall be given to the licensee or permittee by
certified mail, return receipt requested. In the case of a revocation or
suspension of a massage establishment license, notice shall be sent to the
licensee at the business address indicated on the licensee's application for a
massage establishment license. In the case of a revocation or suspension of a
massage therapist permit, notice shall be sent to the massage therapist at the
residence address indicated in the application for the permit. The notice shall
set forth the date, time and place of the hearing and shall state the facts
which constitute the reasons for the hearing on the revocation or suspension of
the license or permit.
      3.   It shall be the duty of all licensees and permittees to inform the
City Clerk of any changes in address which are needed to inform them of any
hearing conducted pursuant to this Section. All changes in address shall be
reported to the City Clerk within ten (10) days of such change. Failure by any
licensee or permittee to inform the City Clerk of any change in address
required pursuant to this Section shall not prevent or preclude the bringing of
any action or the holding of any hearing pursuant to this Section for a
revocation or suspension of the license or permit.
   C.   Action By City Attorney: The City Attorney shall be responsible for
bringing and proving any and all actions for the revocation or suspension of
any massage establishment license or massage therapist permit. All initial
pleadings and subsequent original pleadings shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   D.   Appeal Procedure: Any licensee or permittee may appeal any decision by
the City Council to revoke or suspend a license or permit to the City Council.
All appeals shall be in writing setting forth the reasons for the appeal and
shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after the receipt of
the notice from the City Council to revoke or suspend the license or permit.
Upon receipt of the notice, the City Council shall fix a time and place for
hearing the appeal. The hearing shall be held not more than twenty (20) days
following the receipt of the notice of appeal by the City Clerk. The filing of
an appeal by a licensee or permittee shall not operate as a stay of the
determination by the City Council to revoke or suspend the license or permit.
(Ord. 109, 1977; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-14: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 109, 1977)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING DEMOLITION CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definition
3-5-2: Registration Required
3-5-3: Insurance Requirements
3-5-4: Fees
3-5-5: Violation, Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter:
CONTRACTOR: Any individual, partnership or corporation who provides services
related to demolition of buildings, mobile homes and other structures, for any
consideration. (Ord. 325, 1995)
3-5-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Registration: Prior to working on any facet of any demolition for any
property owner and prior to commencing any work for any property owner in the
City, all contractors shall register with the City Clerk.
   B.   Contents Of Registration: The registration shall contain the
contractor's true name and address, his business address, his business name,
and whether or not he is incorporated, a partnership or an individual
proprietorship. Further, if the contractor uses an assumed name, the correct
names and addresses of the real owners of the business shall be included on the
registration. (Ord. 325, 1995)
3-5-3: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Liability: In addition to registering with the City Clerk, any
contractor desiring to do work for residents in the City in connection with any
demolition, shall, before commencing any of the work, furnish to and file with
the City Clerk a certificate signed by a reputable insurance company authorized
to do business in the State showing that the contractor has liability insurance
currently in force in limits not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
property damage liability and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
bodily injury liability, together with a license or permit bond in the sum of
four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) guaranteeing that the contractor will not
violate any ordinances of the City.
   B.   Homeowner's Insurance Required: All individuals who desire to perform
their own demolition shall, prior to commencing actual demolition work, furnish
the City Clerk with a certificate of adequate insurance covering liability for
property damage, in the amount of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
for property damage and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) bodily
injury liability. (Ord. 325, 1995)
3-5-4: FEES:
In addition to the above requirements, each contractor shall pay at the same
time of registering a registration fee to the City in the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 325, 1995)
3-5-5: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any contractor or individual who commences work as described in this Chapter
without registering and furnishing the certificate of insurance and bond, as
applicable, with the City Clerk shall be guilty of an ordinance violation, and
shall be punishable in accordance with the terms of the general penalty
provisions of Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day worked shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord.
325, 1995)
CHAPTER 6
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Enforcement
3-6-2: Location Outside Manufactured Home Parks
3-6-3: License Required
3-6-4: Service Buildings
3-6-5: Sewage And Refuse Disposal
3-6-6: City Services
3-6-7: Miscellaneous Regulations
3-6-8: License Revocation And Suspension
3-6-9: Penalty
3-6-1: ENFORCEMENT:
The City Council and its authorized employees and agents shall have the duty to
enforce all provisions of this Chapter as prescribed herein or such provisions
as may hereafter be enacted, and for the purpose of securing such enforcement,
any of the members of the City Council, or their duly authorized
representatives, shall have the right and are empowered to enter upon any
premises on which any manufactured homes are located, or are about to be
located, and inspect the same and all accommodations connected therewith at any
reasonable time. The City Council is further empowered to issue orders
granting, renewing or revoking such permits and licenses as are provided in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 296, 1993)
3-6-2: LOCATION OUTSIDE MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
It shall be unlawful, within the City limits or within the zoning jurisdiction
of the City, for any person to place or locate any manufactured home on any
tract of land owned by any person, occupied or unoccupied, within the City
except as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 296, 1993)
3-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain upon any
property owned or controlled by him, a manufactured home park within the City
limits, without having first secured a license therefor from the City, granted
and existing in compliance with the terms of this Chapter.
   A.   License Term, Renewal: Such license shall expire one year from the date
of issuance but may be renewed under the provisions of the Chapter for
additional periods of one year.
   B.   Application, Fee, Contents: The application for such license or the
renewal thereof shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be accompanied
with a fee, intended to defray the administrative costs of this Chapter only
and not as a tax, of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each park. The
application for a license or renewal thereof shall be made on printed forms
furnished by the City and shall include the name and address of the owner in
fee of the tract; provided, however, if the fee is vested in some person other
than the applicant, a duly verified statement by that person that the applicant
is authorized by him to construct or maintain the manufactured home park and
make the application, and such a legal description of the premises, upon which
the park is or will be located as will readily identify and definitively locate
the premises. The initial application shall be accompanied by four (4) copies
of the manufactured home park plat showing the following, either existing or as
proposed:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   Legal description of the park;
      3.   Roadways and driveways;
      4.   Location of sites or units for manufactured homes;
      5.   That there has been proper conformance with City building, zoning
and plumbing regulations;
      6.   Method and plan of sewage disposal;
      7.   Method and plan of garbage removal;
      8.   Plan for water supply;
      9.   Plan for electrical lighting of units;
      10.   Plan showing the park and recreation area, if any; and
      11.   Such further information as may be requested by the City Council to
enable it to determine if the proposed park will comply with the legal
requirements.
   C.   Building Permits Required: The license issued under the terms of this
Chapter shall convey no right to erect any building, to do any plumbing work or
to do any electrical work, without first obtaining a permit and having
inspection to meet all City codes.
   D.   Public Ways: Design standards for all streets, utilities and rights of
way, as promulgated by the City Engineer, shall be followed by all applicants
and license holders. (Ord. 296, 1993)
3-6-4: SERVICE BUILDINGS:
   A.   Service buildings, housing sanitation and laundry facilities, or any of
such facilities, shall be permanent structures complying with all applicable
ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical installations and
plumbing and sanitation systems.
   B.   Service buildings shall be well lighted at all times of the day and
night, shall be well ventilated with screened openings, shall be constructed of
such moisture proof material, including painted woodwork, as shall permit
repeated cleaning and washing, and shall be maintained at a temperature of at
least sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) at all times. The floors of the
service building shall be of water impervious material.
   C.   Service buildings and/or housing sanitation facilities shall be located
not closer than twenty feet (20') nor further than two hundred feet (200') from
any manufactured home space upon which a manufactured home is located.
   D.   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in sightly condition and kept free from any condition that will menace the
health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance. (Ord. 296, 1993)
3-6-5: SEWAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, lavatories, stop sinks
and laundries and service and other buildings within the park shall be
discharged into a public sewer system in compliance with applicable City
ordinances.
      2.   Each manufactured home site shall be provided with a sewer
connection for the combined liquid waste outlet or outlets of each manufactured
home.
   B.   Solid Waste:
      1.   Approved garbage cans with tight-fitting covers shall be provided in
quantities adequate to permit disposal of all garbage and rubbish. Garbage cans
shall be located not further than one hundred feet (100') from any manufactured
home space. The can shall be kept in sanitary condition at all times. Garbage
and rubbish shall be collected and disposed of as frequently as may be
necessary to ensure that the garbage cans shall not overflow.
      2.   A sufficient number of adequate flyproof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage. Garbage containers shall be
emptied at least every week and shall not be filled to overflowing or allowed
to become foul smelling or a breeding place for flies.
   C.   Insect And Rodent Control: Adequate insect and rodent control measures
shall be employed. All buildings shall be fly- and rodent-proof and rodent
harborages shall not be permitted to exist in the park.
   D.   Compliance With Building Regulations: All plumbing, electrical,
building and other work on or at any manufactured home park licensed under this
Chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of this City Code regulating
such work unless said provisions are specifically made inapplicable under the
terms of this Chapter 1 . (Ord. 296, 1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
3-6-6: CITY SERVICES:
   A.   Infrastructure Responsibility: All streets, service lines, sewer and
water mains and related infrastructure items not dedicated to the public will
remain the responsibility of the licensee to maintain and repair. The City will
be responsible for no disruption or interruption of service due to failure of
any such items not so dedicated to the public. Such dedication shall be
effected only by written and recorded instrument so dedicating the property to
the public, with appropriate and authorized acceptance by the City Council. No
dedication by implication or acquiescence, or common law dedication, will be
effective.
   B.   Water Meters: If water meters are provided by the City, they shall
remain City property and responsibility for maintenance and repair of same
shall so remain with the City. (Ord. 296, 1993)
3-6-7: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: By applying for a permit, all applicants are by such
action agreeing to allow the City police and other employees access to the
public areas of the manufactured home park in order to carry out their duties.
(Ord. 296, 1993)
   B.   Traffic Regulations Applicable: All City traffic ordinances will apply
to the rights of way, whether private or dedicated to the public, within the
manufactured home park. To this end, a speed limit of ten (10) miles per hour
shall be in effect on All Seasons Road, that portion of Autumn Way and
Enterprise Drive within the existing All Seasons Manufactured Home Park, and
any further or other streets which may be established or laid out within that
or any other manufactured home park. Authority to enforce such regulations is
hereby expressly given to the Chenoa police force. (Ord. 361, 11-24-1997)
   C.   Recreational Vehicles: Mini-bikes, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles
and motor scooters may not be ridden within the park. The maximum speed limit
is ten (10) miles per hour for all vehicles.
   D.   Prohibited Acts, Conditions:
      1.   Repairing or overhauling of any motor vehicle will not be allowed in
the park.
      2.   No permanent parking of travel trailers, campers, boats or
motorcycles will be allowed within the park. (Ord. 296, 1993)
3-6-8: LICENSE REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION:
The City Council is authorized to revoke any license issued pursuant to the
terms of this Chapter, if after due investigation and public hearing they
determine that the holder thereof has violated any provisions of this Chapter,
or that any manufactured home or manufactured home park is being maintained in
an unsanitary or unsafe manner or is a nuisance. (Ord. 296, 1993)
3-6-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating this Chapter shall be fined in accordance with the general
penalty provisions in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 296, 1993)
CHAPTER 7
SOUND AMPLIFICATION
SECTION:
3-7-1: License Required
3-7-2: Application, Issuance Of License
3-7-3: License Fees
3-7-4: Restrictions
3-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to maintain or operate any loudspeaker or amplifier connected
with any radio, phonograph, microphone or other device by which sounds are
magnified and made heard over any public street or public place without having
first secured a permit therefor. (1964 Code § 456)
3-7-2: APPLICATION, ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Any person desiring to obtain a license for the use or
operation of such device, shall file an application therefor with the City
Clerk upon a form provided by him, setting forth the name and address of the
applicant, the name of the owner of such device, the date upon which it is
intended to be used and such other information as may be prescribed. (1964 Code
§ 458)
   B.   Issuance: The license shall be issued upon the payment of the license
fee as provided in Section
3-7-3 of this Chapter to the City Clerk, and shall permit the use of any such
device subject to the terms and conditions of this Chapter only upon the date
specified on the license and no other. (1964 Code § 459)
3-7-3: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for license to be granted under this Chapter shall be as follows:
   A.   For the use or operation of any radio-receiving set, talking machine,
amplifier or other similar device to be operated from a fixed location and not
in a moving vehicle, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for any day or part of a day
for which the licensee desires to be licensed under this Chapter.
   B.   For the use or operation of any radio-receiving set, talking machine,
amplifier or other similar device to be operated from a moving vehicle along
the streets, twenty five dollars ($25.00) for any day or part of a day for
which the licensee desires to be licensed under this Chapter. (1964 Code § 457)
3-7-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No licensee shall use or operate or employ any such device within the
City limits on Sunday, or after the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. or
before the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   B.   This Chapter shall not apply to radios in homes or in private pleasure
vehicles when the same are operated in such manner as not to be audible at a
distance of fifty feet (50') from such vehicle, nor to noise devices, bands or
other musical devices used in any public parade or procession which is operated
under a permit in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
   C.   No licensee shall cause or permit to be emanated or emitted from any
such device any lewd, obscene, profane or indecent language or sounds, or any
false representation of any matter, produce or project advertised thereby, the
sale of which is prohibited by any law, ordinance or statute. (1964 Code § 460)
CHAPTER 8
HOTEL OPERATORS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-8-1: Title
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: Hotel Use Tax Imposed
3-8-4: Books And Records
3-8-5: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
3-8-6: Violations
3-8-7: Rules, Regulations, And Other Actions Authorized
3-8-8: Delinquent Taxes; Liens
3-8-9: Foreclosure Of Lien And Other Judicial Action
3-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as THE HOTEL OPERATORS' OCCUPATION TAX
ORDINANCE and the tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other
occupation or privilege taxes imposed by the state of Illinois and city of
Chenoa. (Ord. 435, 10-22-2001; amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:
                       Any person or entity who provides a means through which
                       a person may book a hotel room to lessees, regardless of
FACILITATOR:           whether payment is transferred through or processed by
                       such facilitator. Facilitators are considered lessors,
                       as used herein. Online travel companies are considered
                       facilitators, as used herein.
                       The total amount of consideration for occupancy, valued
                       in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
                       including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or
                       services of any kind or nature, including but not
                       limited to, amounts charged for the making, booking,
                       facilitating or servicing of reservations. Gross rent
                       means both (a) the "net rate" paid to the hotel or motel
                       by a facilitator for room occupancy by the consumer; and
GROSS RENT:            (b) the amount retained by the facilitator for travel-
                       related services provided to the consumer (sometimes
                       referred to as a "facilitation fee"), and any additional
                       amounts retained by the facilitator as compensation for
                       its services to the consumer for the individual
                       transaction, or, in the instance of a consumer's direct
                       rental of a room with the hotel or motel, gross rent
                       shall mean the amount charged by the hotel or motel
                       directly to the consumer for the occupancy of the room.
                       A structure kept, used or maintained as or advertised or
                       held out to the public to be an inn, motel, hotel,
HOTEL:                 apartment, home, lodging house, dormitory or place where
                       sleeping, rooming, office, conference or exhibition
                       accommodations are furnished for lease or rent, whether
                       with or without meals.
LESSEE:                Any person who pays for the privilege of occupying all
                       or part of a hotel.
                       Any person having a sufficient proprietary interest in
                       conducting the operation of a hotel, or receiving the
LESSOR:                consideration for the rental of all or part of such
                       hotel, so as to entitle such person to all or a portion
                       of the net receipts thereof, including facilitators, as
                       defined herein.
                       An organization that books, reserves, or rents hotel or
                       motel rooms and makes other travel arrangements for
ONLINE TRAVEL COMPANY: consumers via the world wide web, internet or other
                       digital means. Online travel companies are considered
                       facilitators, as used herein.
                       Any person who has occupied or has the right to occupy
PERMANENT RESIDENT:    all or part of a hotel for more than (30) consecutive
                       days.
                       Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
                       conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust,
                       estate, firm, co-partnership, joint venture, club,
                       company, business trust, domestic or foreign
                       corporation, association, syndicate, society or any
                       group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual,
PERSON:                cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise,
                       whenever the term "person'" is used in any clause
                       prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied
                       to associations shall mean the owners or part-owners
                       thereof, and as applied to corporations, the offices
                       thereof, or any other entity recognized by law as the
                       subject of rights and duties. (Ord. 435, 10-22-2001;
                       amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
 
3-8-3: HOTEL USE TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is levied and imposed a tax of five percent (5%) of the gross
rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a hotel room within the city
of Chenoa for each twenty-four (24) hour period or any portion thereof for
which a room charge is made.
   B.   Accommodations within said buildings or structures which are leased to
the same person for a period of more than thirty (30) consecutive days shall be
exempt from the tax provisions of this article.
   C.   Lessors renting or leasing hotel rooms within the city are required to
collect the hotel use tax; however, the ultimate incidence of any liability for
payment of the tax is to be borne by the lessee.
   D.   The hotel use tax shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes
and charges.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every lessor of every hotel within the city to
separately state such tax at the five percent (5%) rate upon the total amount
of compensation charged for the use of the hotel. The lessor shall also state
separately the amount of tax on the invoice for the transaction that will be
tendered to the lessee.
   F.   It shall be the duty of every lessor of every hotel within the city to
collect the tax from the lessee at the time the lessee pays for the privilege
of occupying all or part of a hotel transient occupancy rental unit, and to
remit to the city the tax under procedures provided for in this chapter or
otherwise prescribed by the city. If more than one person is the Lessor as
related to a particular transaction, the lessors are jointly and severally
responsible for collecting and remitting the tax.
   G.   It shall not be a defense to this chapter that the lessor is not
licensed by the city to rent hotels and the Lessor will still be required to
remit the proper tax to the city. (Ord. 855, 6-27-2023)
3-8-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every operator shall keep separate books or records of his business as an
operator so as to show the rents and occupancies taxable under this chapter
separately from his transactions not taxable hereunder. Upon reasonable notice
to the operator, all applicable books and records shall be made available to
the treasurer or his authorized representative for his evaluation with respect
to this chapter. (Ord. 435, 10-22-2001; amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
3-8-5: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE:
   A.   The lessor of each hotel within the city shall file returns and remit
collected taxes, to the treasurer showing tax receipts received with respect to
each hotel during each monthly period commencing on December 1, 2020, and
continuing on the first day of every month thereafter on forms prescribed by
the city. The return shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the
calendar month succeeding the end of the monthly filing period. Each lessor
shall file an application with the city clerk for a city taxpayer
identification number prior to filing its first tax return.
   B.   The first taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall commence
on December 1, 2020; and the tax return and payment for such period shall be
due on or before January 15, 2021. Thereafter, reporting periods and tax
payments shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. At the
time of filing such tax returns, the owner shall pay to the treasurer all taxes
due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   C.   The person filing the return herein provided for shall, at the time of
filing such return, pay to the department the amount of tax herein imposed. If
a return is not filed when and as required or if a tax payment is not made as
required, the taxpayer shall be liable for a penalty equal to five percent (5%)
of the tax due during the applicable period for each month or fraction of a
month until such return is filed and payment is made as required. The treasurer
shall be authorized to compromise or waive part or all of the penalty
requirements of this section if he finds that the situation for which the
person is to be charged was due entirely or in part to the fault of the city or
any agent thereof, or the person to be charged under said section was without
fault in bringing about the situation for which he is to be charged, and the
imposition of the financial requirements would work a hardship upon the person.
   D.   If a return is no filed within the time and manner provided and prior
to the city issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability,
then a failure to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent
(25%) of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the
return was required to be filed.
   E.   The city hereby provides for interest to be assessed on a late payment,
underpayment or non-payment of the tax, to be five percent (5%) per annum,
based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed. (Ord. 435, 10-22-2001; amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
3-8-6: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting hotel
rooms in the city of Chenoa who fails to make a return, or to keep books
violates any rule or regulation of the treasurer for the administration
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, or any officer or agent of a
corporation engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting hotel rooms
in this state who signs a fraudulent return made on behalf of such corporation
shall, upon conviction therefor, be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
   B.   Any hotel operator who collects or attempts to collect an amount
(however designated) which purports to reimburse such operator for hotel
operators' occupation tax liability measured by receipts which such operator
knows are not subject to hotel operators' occupation tax, or any hotel operator
who over collects or attempts to over collect an amount purporting to reimburse
such operator for hotel operators' occupation tax liability in a transaction
which is subject to the tax that is imposed by this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 435, 10-22-
2001; amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
3-8-7: RULES, REGULATIONS, AND OTHER ACTIONS AUTHORIZED:
   A.   The treasurer may promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent
with the provisions of this chapter concerning enforcement and application of
this chapter. The phrase "rules and regulations" includes, but is not limited
to, case-by-case determination of whether or not the tax imposed by this
chapter applies.
   B.   The officers, employees and/or agents of the city of Chenoa shall take
all action necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and
consummate the amendments contemplated by this ordinance and shall take all
action necessary in conformity therewith. The officers, employees and/or agents
of the city are specifically authorized and directed to draft and disseminate
any and all necessary forms to be utilized in connection with these amendments.
Any and all actions previously performed by officials, employees and/or agents
of the city in connection with carrying out and consummating the intent of this
ordinance are hereby authorized, approved and ratified by this reference. (Ord.
435, 10-22-2001; amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
3-8-8: DELINQUENT TAXES; LIENS:
In the event any hotel operators' occupation tax, including penalties, is not
paid within sixty (60) days after payment thereof is due, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter such delinquent
taxes and all subsequent taxes, including penalties, incurred while the
delinquent charges remain unpaid and all costs of filing any lien notice(s) and
of releasing any lien(s) shall constitute a lien upon the real estate to which
such taxes relate. The treasurer or his authorized representative is hereby
authorized to file sworn statements showing such delinquencies and subsequent
taxes, including penalties, in the office of the recorder of deeds of McLean
County, Illinois. These statements shall contain the legal description of the
involved premises, the amount of the unpaid taxes and penalties and a notice
that the city claims a lien for the total amount. The filing of such statements
shall be deemed lien notices for the payment of such taxes and penalties. (Ord.
435, 10-22-2001; amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
3-8-9: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN AND OTHER JUDICIAL ACTION:
   A.   Any and all lien(s) for hotel operators' occupation tax(es) established
by law against the premises to which they relate may be enforced and foreclosed
by and on behalf of the city at any time in the appropriate circuit court of
McLean County, Illinois according to the rules and practices of said court.
Said lien(s) also may be enforced and foreclosed by intervention at any time in
any suit already commenced in said court or any other court whatever when said
intervention is proper under the law. Whenever the city is made a defendant in
any suit in any court, it shall have full power to enforce said lien(s) in said
proceedings at any time in any manner permitted by law. The party or parties
responsible for said taxes and penalties may also be sued for the amount
thereof as debt(s) owed to the city.
   B.   The city attorney is hereby authorized to take any judicial action
referred to herein on behalf of the city or to authorize any other person to do
so.
   C.   No method(s) herein provided for collecting said taxes shall be
considered as excluding any other remedy or any other method of collecting said
taxes but shall be concurrent with all other remedies and methods. (Ord. 435,
10-22-2001; amd. Ord. 805, 10-27-2020)
CHAPTER 9
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Requirements
3-9-3: Premises
3-9-4: Prohibitions
3-9-5: Right To Inspect
3-9-6: Compliance With State And County Requirements; Exemptions
3-9-7: Penalties
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases as used
in this Chapter shall be construed according to the definitions set forth
below:
ACT:                      Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishment
                          Registration Act (410 ILCS 54).
                          The practice of physical body adornment,
                          including, but not limited to, the
                          following techniques: body piercing,
                          tattooing, cosmetic tattooing, branding
                          and scarification. This definition does
                          not include practices that are
                          considered medical procedures by the
BODY ART:                 Illinois state medical board, such as
                          implants under the skin, which shall not
                          be performed in a body art
                          establishment. Nor does this definition
                          include piercing of the noncartilaginous
                          portion or lobe of the ear with
                          presterilized single use stud and clasp
                          ear piercing systems.
BODY ART CODE:            Title 77, Chapter I, Subchapter m, Part
                          797 of the Illinois Administrative Code.
                          A body piercing operation, a tattooing
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT OR operation, or a combination of both
ESTABLISHMENT:            operations in a multiple type
                          establishment.
BODY ARTIST:              A person who conducts or practices body
                          art activities and/or procedures.
                          Penetrating the skin to make a hole,
                          mark, or scar that is generally
                          permanent in nature. "Body piercing"
                          does not include practices that are
BODY PIERCING:            considered medical procedures or the
                          puncturing of the noncartilaginous
                          portion or lobe of the ear using a
                          presterilized, single use stud and clasp
                          ear piercing system.
                          An individual, partnership, corporation,
OPERATOR:                 association, or other entity engaged in
                          the business of owning, managing, or
                          offering services of body art.
                          The person who enters the premises and/
                          or remains on the premises of an
                          establishment with the consent of the
                          operator, manager or other agent of the
PATRON:                   establishment. Anyone with an ownership
                          interest, employees and agents of the
                          operator shall not be considered patrons
                          except when such persons are having any
                          tattooing or body piercing done.
                          Any method of placing ink or other
                          pigment into the skin or mucosa by the
                          aid of needles or any other instrument
                          used to puncture the skin, resulting in
                          permanent coloration of the skin or
                          mucosa. This term includes all forms of
TATTOOING:                cosmetic tattooing. This term does not
                          include the use, by a physician licensed
                          to practice medicine in all its
                          branches, of colors, dyes, or pigments
                          for the purpose of obscuring scar tissue
                          or imparting color to the skin for
                          cosmetic, medical, or figurative
                          purposes. (Ord. 779, 12-9-2019)
 
3-9-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The establishment shall have and maintain a certificate of registration
with the Illinois Department of Public Health. Such certificate shall be
conspicuously displayed within the sight of clients upon entering the premises
of the establishment. Copies of the certificate of registration and any
inspection reports shall be provided to the city within thirty (30) days of
receipt by the establishment.
   B.   All body art procedures shall be carried out in accordance with all of
the requirements of the Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishment Registration Act
(410 ILCS 54/1 et seq.) and the requirements of the Body Art Code (77 111. adm.
code ch. 1, subch. m, sec. 797.100 et seq.), now or hereafter amended.
   C.   No more than two (2) body art establishments may be established at any
time within the Local Business District. (Ord. 779, 12-9-2019)
3-9-3: PREMISES:
   A.   The premises of all body art establishments shall meet the requirements
of section 797.1100 of the Body Art Code as now or hereafter amended, and those
requirements are hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference.
   B.   No person, while on the premises of the establishment, shall possess,
sell, dispense, provide, give, keep, or consume any alcoholic beverage.
   C.   The establishment shall not be open to the public for business between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., provided
however, that for a patron whose procedure began before ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M., said procedure may be continued, but in every event, must be completed by
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., and all other patrons must vacate the
establishment by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   D.   The main entrance door of the establishment shall be visible from a
public street or public corridor and shall remain unlocked during business
hours.
   E.   All first floor windows shall remain transparent and shall not be
papered or otherwise blocked, tinted, or covered over with the exception of
signage which shall be limited to twenty-five percent (25%) of the window
surface area.
   F.   The establishment shall also comply with all other city codes and
ordinances generally or specifically applicable to the premises. (Ord. 779, 12-
9-2019)
3-9-4: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Smoking shall not be permitted anywhere in the establishment.
   B.   Eating shall not be permitted in the immediate area of the premises
where body art is being performed.
   C.   No person may perform body art procedures while under the influence of
alcohol or nonmedically prescribed drugs.
   D.   No person may perform body art procedures upon any person who is or
appears to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol or who is or appears to
be incoherent for any reason.
   E.   Offering or soliciting to perform body art on body of a person under
the age of eighteen (18) who is not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian
is prohibited.
   F.   Performing body art on a person under the age of eighteen (18) without
the parent or legal guardian being present and giving written consent is
prohibited. The written consent form shall be signed in the presence of an
owner or employee of the establishment and shall include the disclosure
required by section 797.400(1) of the Body Art Code and 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12C-40(a)(1) of the Illinois Criminal Code, or any amendments
thereof.
   G.   Owners, employees and other agents of any establishment performing body
art may not permit a person under eighteen (18) years of age to enter or remain
on the premises where body art is being performed unless the person under
eighteen (18) years of age is accompanied by his or her parent or legal
guardian.
   H.   This section should not be construed in any way to prohibit the
performance of medical or dental procedures performed by a licensed healthcare
professional or other person authorized to perform that procedure, or prohibit
the presence of a person under eighteen (18) years of age who is not
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian on the premises of where medical or
dental procedures are performed. (Ord. 779, 12-9-2019)
3-9-5: RIGHT TO INSPECT:
   A.   The city may cause such inspections of the establishment premises as
may be necessary to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter and any and all other provisions of the ordinances of the City of
Chenoa and the laws and regulations of the State of Illinois.
   B.   The establishment shall permit city representatives to enter the
premises at any reasonable time, which shall include the permitted hours of
operation, for the purpose of making inspection of the premises and the records
of the establishment. The establishment shall produce such records as may be
required to provide proof of compliance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter, the ordinances of the City of Chenoa, and the laws and regulations of
the State of Illinois. (Ord. 779, 12-9-2019)
3-9-6: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND COUNTY REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The operator of the tattoo or body piercing establishment shall comply
with all state and county health requirements applicable to such
establishments. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
chapter and such state and county requirements, the more restrictive shall
control.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a physician or
osteopath authorized to practice medicine or osteopathic medicine in the state
of Illinois as set forth in the Illinois Medical Practice Act of 1987 (225 ILCS
60/1 et seq.) or any amendment thereof who perform body piercing or tattooing
while in the course of their medical practice. (Ord. 779, 12-9-2019)
3-9-7: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined an
amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per offense. Each day on which an offense occurs shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 779, 12-9-2019)
CHAPTER 10
TREE REMOVAL CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definition
3-10-2: Registration Required
3-10-3: Violation; Penalty
3-10-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter:
 
                         Any individual, partnership or corporation who
TREE REMOVAL CONTRACTOR: provides services related to trimming or removal of
                         trees or shrubs. (Ord. 801, 9-22-2020)
 
3-10-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Registration: Prior to working on any facet of any tree, brush, or
plant removal for any property owner and prior to commencing any work for any
property owner in the city, all tree removal contractors shall register with
the city clerk.
   B.   Contents Of Registration: The registration shall contain the
contractor's true name and address, his business address, his business name,
and whether or not he is incorporated, a partnership or an individual
proprietorship. Further, if the contractor uses an assumed name, the correct
names and addresses of the real owners of the business shall be included on the
registration.
   C.   The registrant will agree as part of the registration, that they will
be responsible for the removal of all brush and limbs to an off-site location
and that any removal or disposition will not be the responsibility of the city.
(Ord. 801, 9-22-2020)
3-10-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any contractor or individual who commences work as described in this chapter
without registering and furnishing the certificate of insurance and bond, as
applicable, with the city clerk shall be guilty of an ordinance violation, and
shall be punishable in accordance with the terms of the general penalty
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day worked shall be deemed a separate offense. In
addition, any contractor found to have violated this provision will have their
permit revoked and will be banned from tree removal for a period of six (6)
months from the date of the permit violation. (Ord. 801, 9-22-2020)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Acts Endangering Public Health
4-1-2: Junkyards And Dealers
4-1-3: Cemeteries
4-1-4: Smoking In City Property
4-1-5: Disposal Of Medical Waste
4-1-6: Dust Control
4-1-1: ACTS ENDANGERING PUBLIC HEALTH:
It is unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the public health or
results in annoyance or discomfort to the public. (1964 Code § 425)
4-1-2: JUNKYARDS AND DEALERS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this chapter:
   JUNKYARDS: An open area where junk, waste, scrap, used equipment and vehicle
parts, discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap
iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles. A junkyard
includes automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment. It also shall include places or yards for storage of
the above cited waste and other materials incident or accessory to the primary
use of the area, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed
buildings.
   B.   Fencing Required: All junkyards shall be completely enclosed by a
strongly constructed fence constructed of standard fencing material which shall
completely shut off the view from outside of the contents of the junkyard. Such
fence shall not be less than eight feet (8') in height and shall be kept
painted or otherwise preserved so as to present a clean and neat appearance. No
junk or other materials shall be piled or stacked against the fence or
enclosure nor shall any junk be piled or stacked higher than the top of the
fence or enclosure.
   C.   Abandoned Premises: Whenever any premises used as a junkyard shall
cease to be used for such purpose, the owner or lessee, or their lawful
successors shall, upon demand of the chief of police or city council, proceed
at once to remove all cars, parts of cars, junk, rubbish and all materials used
or kept in the operation of such junkyard, including fences required by this
chapter in the operation of a junkyard, and place the premises in a neat, clean
and sightly condition. If such owner, lessee or personal representative shall,
upon such demand, fail or refuse to comply with the provisions of this section
within ten (10) days of notice thereof, then such premises, the condition of
which remains unabated, is declared to be a public nuisance. Such nuisance may
be abated as other nuisances under the provision of this code, including, but
not limited to, a fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code, for each day that such owner, lessee or successor shall
fail or refuse to remove such material or place the premises in a neat, clean
and sightly condition.
   D.   Existing Junkyards: The provisions of subsection B of this section
shall not apply to "junkyards" as defined herein which are existing and in
operation on a particular tract within the city on the effective date of this
section. However, such junkyards may not be moved to another location or
expanded on their present location, without complying with the restrictions
herein. Subsection C of this section shall apply to all junkyards presently
existing or established in the future. (Ord. 214, 1986)
4-1-3: CEMETERIES:
It is unlawful for any person to establish a cemetery or to bury any person
within the city limits, or within one mile thereof, except in an established
cemetery. (1964 Code § 423)
4-1-4: SMOKING IN CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Smoking in all areas of city owned buildings, including, but not
limited to, the city hall building, and in all vehicles owned or operated by
the city, including, but not limited to, tractors, trucks, and police vehicles,
is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 508, 6-12-2006)
   B.   Violation of the provisions of this section shall subject the violator
to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 423, 5-14-2001)
4-1-5: DISPOSAL OF MEDICAL WASTE:
   A.   "Medical waste" under this section shall be defined as potentially
infectious medical waste (PIMW) under the provisions of the Illinois
environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
   B.   Any person who is a generator, or an employee of a generator of medical
waste, shall store such waste prior to disposal in an area secured as to deny
access to unauthorized persons, animals, wind, rain, insect and rodents. If
such wastes are placed in a trash receptacle or compactor which is accessible
at any time to unauthorized persons, such receptacle or compactor shall be
locked to prevent access to contents thereof to anyone other than authorized
persons or refuse collection personnel.
   C.   Medical waste shall not be disposed of through the city of Chenoa
residential or commercial garbage disposal system. All such medical waste must
be disposed of through an authorized refuse collection business or
organization, licensed to dispose of such waste by the Illinois environmental
protection agency.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person or business to dispose of medical and/or
infectious waste, in or upon any premises in the city, without having first
obtained a permit therefor with the city of Chenoa.
   E.   Every applicant for a permit to dispose of medical waste shall file an
application with the city clerk. The applicant for such a permit shall furnish
the following information:
      1.   Name, home address, and business address of the establishment
generating the waste.
      2.   The name, address and license number of the PIMW transporter which
shall transport the medical waste from the business.
   F.   The information required in subsection E1 of this section shall be
required for the following individuals:
      1.   The owner of the generator of medical waste.
      2.   A partner of a partnership applicant.
      3.   Any officer or director or greater than ten percent (10%)
stockholder of a corporate applicant.
   G.   Upon submission of an application with the proper information, the
clerk shall grant the license. Every such applicant shall pay a nonrefundable
application fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to the city treasurer. This fee shall
be an annual fee for the permit, payable on the one year anniversary date of
the issuance of the license.
   H.   Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, or such other fine as determined
by the city council, in an amount no greater than section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 499, 9-12-2005)
4-1-6: DUST CONTROL:
   A.   Precautions: No person shall discharge or allow to be discharged from
residential or commercial areas within the city limits from any source
whatsoever quantities of airborne particulate matter or dust which may cause
injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance to the public, without taking
reasonable precautions to prevent such particulate generated by the activity
from becoming airborne.
   B.   Definitions: For purpose of this section:
AIRBORNE PARTICULATE MATTER: Material discharged into or suspended in the air
in finely divided form, i.e., sand or dust.
COMMERCIAL AREA: Any area within a C-1, C-2 and H-I zoning classification under
title 10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code.
DUST: Very fine particles that become airborne due to wind, traffic and other
human activity.
REASONABLE PRECAUTIONS: The placing of paving, gravel, vegetation, grass or
other matter on the site to prevent the blowing of such quantities of airborne
particulate matter or dust on or from the premises.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA: Any area within an R-1, R-1A, R-2, MH, and R-3 zoning
classification under title 10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code.
   C.   Nuisance: The allowing or creating of such dust or airborne particulate
matter shall be considered a public nuisance.
   D.   Written Complaints: Any person aggrieved by violation or apparent
violation of this section may file a written complaint with the city clerk, and
the city shall investigate the complaint and may take action to have the
violation penalized and removed, if the violation is found to exist.
   E.   Notice Of Violation: If the violation is found to exist, the city may
issue a notice of violation, which is a warning which requires a reasonable
time limit for abatement, which shall not be less than fifteen (15) days after
the issuance of the notice of violation. The notice of violation shall be
written and shall be served by personal delivery or by certified mail to the
person's last known address, or the business address, or by posting upon the
property for ten (10) calendar days. Upon the failure to abate a violation
subsequent to the issuance of the notice of violation, the city may maintain a
complaint in circuit court in the name of the city, for ordinance violation to
be penalized under the general penalty ordinance, and/or to enjoin all persons
from maintaining or permitting the nuisance and to abate the same. (Ord. 622,
8-27-2012)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful, Abatement
4-2-2: Specific Nuisances
4-2-3: Public Nuisances Relating To Health
4-2-4: Abatement Of Public Nuisances
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2.
   
4-2-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL, ABATEMENT:
It is unlawful for any person to permit or maintain the existence of any
nuisance on any property under his control. The Chief of Police and the Health
Officer are each authorized to abate any such nuisance existing in the City
whether such nuisance is specifically recognized by ordinance or not. (1964
Code § 428)
4-2-2: SPECIFIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Stagnant Pools: Any stagnant pool of water in the City is declared to
be a nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any such nuisance to
remain or exist on any property under his control. (1964 Code § 421)
   B.   Water Pollution: It is unlawful and a nuisance for any person to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the City.
(1964 Code § 420)
   C.   Outdoor Storage Of Indoor Upholstered Furniture:
      1.   No person shall place, use, keep, store or maintain outdoors any
indoor upholstered furniture not manufactured for outdoor use, including, but
not limited to, upholstered chairs and couches, except when said indoor
upholstered furniture is placed at the curb on the customary collection day for
it to be removed as part of any waste removal program or when said indoor
upholstered furniture is placed outdoors as part of a garage sale. No real
property owner, tenant or real property manager or other person in control of
such real property shall permit indoor upholstered furniture to remain on such
real property after it has been placed there in violation of this section. As
used herein "indoor upholstered furniture" means any furniture constructed with
stuffing or cushions or springs, not intended for outdoor use. As used herein
"outdoors" means any place visible from a public place and exposed to
precipitation, including, but not limited to, yards, rooftops, and unenclosed
porches, decks, patios, and balconies. As used herein "unenclosed" means an
area not totally surrounded with a combination of walls, windows, doors, floor
and roof.
      2.   Allowing indoor upholstered furniture outdoors, shall be deemed an
ordinance violation punishable pursuant to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code, with a fine of no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each occurrence. (Ord. 605, 11-14-2011)
4-2-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES RELATING TO HEALTH:
   A.   The following acts, omissions, and conditions are hereby declared to be
public health nuisances, but shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
defined under sections
4-2-1 and
4-2-2 of this chapter, and prohibited acts listed under section
4-3-3 of this title:
      1.   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, inoperative, junked or abandoned
vehicles or machinery, scrap metal or any material in which flies, mosquitoes,
disease- carrying insects, rats or other vermin may breed; or may constitute a
fire-hazard.
      2.   Garbage cans which are not fly-tight.
      3.   Any use of property, substances or things within the City emitting
or causing any foul, offensive, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable odors.
      4.   Any obstruction in or across any water course, drainage ditch or
ravine.
      5.   The deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, refuse, appliances,
electronic devices or any offensive substance on any street, sidewalk or public
place, or on any private property, except as may be permitted by ordinance.
      6.   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from which the doors and
other covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with a device or
opening from the inside by pushing only with the strength of a small child.
      7.   Any condition or practice constituting a fire hazard. (Ord. 712, 10-
10-2016)
4-2-4: ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Whenever a complaint is made to the Mayor or other City official that a
public nuisance exists, or has existed, within the City, such official or his
or her agent shall promptly inspect the premises and shall make a report to the
City Council. Whenever practical, the inspection shall include photography with
such photos to be filed with the City Clerk.
   B.   In the event the pertinent City official determines that a public
nuisance exists on private property and there is a danger to the public health
and safety, the Mayor may direct the Chief of Police to serve a notice on the
owner, or if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining such nuisance and to post a copy of the notice on the
premises. Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining such nuisance to abate, alleviate, or remove such
nuisance within twenty four (24) hours and shall state that unless such
nuisance is abated or mitigated, the City will cause same to be abated and will
charge the cost thereof to the owner, occupant, or person causing, permitting
or maintaining the same, and such costs may be imposed by City schedule as from
time to time may be published.
   C.   If the nuisance is not abated within the allotted time by notice or in
the event the owner, occupant, or offender cannot be found, the Street
Commissioner shall cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance.
   D.   The costs of abating a public nuisance shall be borne by the owner of
the property in addition to the person causing, permitting or maintaining the
nuisance. Such cost shall be assessed against the real estate as other special
taxes and shall include any attorney fees relating to such abatement of the
City.
   E.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to City of Chenoa
cleanup days, which happen semi-annually at designated times. (Ord. 712, 10-10-
2016)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Receptacles Required, Specifications
4-3-2: Refuse Disposal Restrictions
4-3-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-3-4: Nuisances Declared
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-6: Disposal Charges
4-3-7: Weekly Collection Procedure
4-3-8: City Dumpster Rental Program
4-3-1: RECEPTACLES REQUIRED, SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Requirements: It is the duty of every owner, or his agent, or occupant
of any house, building, flat or apartment or tenement in the city where people
reside, board or lodge, or where animal or vegetable matter is prepared or
served, and at all times:
      1.   To maintain in good order and repair a separate can for garbage and
a separate receptacle for tin cans, bottles, ashes and similar refuse.
      2.   To deposit nothing but garbage or paper in the can provided for the
same, and nothing but tin cans or bottles in the receptacles provided for the
same. (1964 Code § 413)
   B.   Use Of City Receptacles Restricted: The use of all city garbage waste
disposal receptacles and dumpsters on city streets, rights of way, in city
parks and on city property, with the exception of recycling facilities or
gathering sites operated or sponsored by the city, is restricted to waste
generated on rights of way or city property, and shall not be used for disposal
of household waste or garbage generated on private property. (Ord. 376, 12-14-
1998)
4-3-2: REFUSE DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the city any uncovered
piles of refuse, garbage, offal or carcasses of dead animals. Such refuse must
be buried at least two feet (2') below the surface of the ground, or burned in
properly constructed incinerators, or otherwise properly disposed of. Any
uncovered piles of refuse are declared to be a nuisance. No hot ashes shall be
placed in a wooden receptacle. (1964 Code §§ 416, 422)
4-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Depositing In Streets: No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be
deposited in any street, alley or public way, except as is provided in this
chapter. No refuse shall be so placed that it can be blown about or scattered
by the wind. (1964 Code § 416)
   B.   Trash And Junk On Property:
      1.   Prohibited Conditions: No person shall deposit or cause to be
accumulated any trash, rubbish, junk or similar refuse in an enclosed or
unenclosed area in this city, and whether on public or privately owned
property, that is likely to endanger the health or safety of the public unless
such property is expressly zoned for such purpose. This includes, but is not
limited to, the keeping or the depositing on, or the scattering over the
premises of any of the following:
         a.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris; (Ord. 243, 1988)
         b.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers, or junked and
abandoned vehicles as provided in title 6, chapter 5 of this code; (Ord. 243,
1988; amd. 2000 Code)
         c.   Any compost pile which is of such a nature as to spread or harbor
disease and emit unpleasant odors or harmful gas or attract rodents, vermin or
other disease carrying pests, animals or insects.
         d.   Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution of the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located.
      2.   Notice Of Violation: The commissioner of parks, public health and
safety, or the chief of police, is authorized and directed to make periodic
inspections to determine compliance with this section. If violations are found
to occur, a notice in substantially the following form shall be served
(personally or by certified mail) upon the person found to be in violation:
   To    :
You are hereby notified in accordance with the Chenoa City Code, Title 4,
Chapter 3 that a deposit or accumulation of property and materials has been
found to exist on the following described real estate in violation of the
Chenoa City Code, Section
4-3-3 :
   (insert description of real estate)
You are further notified that unless said accumulation is removed within ten
(10) days from the date hereof that a complaint may be filed charging a
violation or violations of the above sections of the Chenoa City Code.
Dated this         day of             , 19   .
               
               
            Title
(Ord. 243, 1988)
   C.   Silliman Lake Or Park: The dumping or depositing of building materials
and other refuse, including, but not limited to, concrete, wood, metal, masonry
or other building materials, or any other refuse, other than in an authorized
refuse receptacle, at the City of Chenoa Silliman Lake Public Park or in
Silliman Lake, is prohibited. (Ord. 463, 8-11-2003)
4-3-4: NUISANCES DECLARED:
Any conditions as described herein are declared to be a nuisance and dangerous
to the public safety. Enforcement of this chapter may be accomplished by the
City in any manner authorized by law, and in addition to any other fines or
penalties, the City shall be authorized to enjoin or otherwise abate an
existing violation. (Ord. 243, 1988)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be punished in
accordance with the general penalty provisions of section
 1-4-1 of this Code, and each day the conditions described herein are permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 243, 1988)
4-3-6: DISPOSAL CHARGES:
The fees and charges for the disposal of garbage and refuse in the City of
Chenoa shall be as follows:
   A.   Effective March 1, 2019, the following rate schedule for residential
water users shall apply:
Solid waste collection and disposal:  
Solid waste collection and disposal:   
 July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019  $14.20
 July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020  14.63
 July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021  15.07
 July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022  15.52
 July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023  15.99
 July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024  16.47
 July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025  16.96
Recycling processing charge:           
 March 1, 2019 through March 1, 2020 0.69
 
   The recycling processing charge may be subject to an annual recycling
adjustment to be approved by Chenoa. If such adjustment will occur, such notice
will be provided to the residential water user as soon as possible by
notification on the City water bill and by City ordinance.
   B.   Effective November 1, 2019, twenty dollars ($20.00) per cubic yard per
month for commercial refuse disposal users.
   C.   When service starts on or before the fifteenth of the month the total
monthly charge shall be due. When service starts after the fifteenth of each
month no charge shall be payable for that month. When service is discontinued
on or before the fifteenth of the month no monthly charge shall be due for that
month. When service is discontinued after the fifteenth of each month the total
monthly charge shall be due for that month. (Ord. 424, 5-29-2001; amd. Ord.
566, 5-11-2009; Ord. 725, 4-10-2017; Ord. 764, 3-25-2019; Ord. 771, 10-14-2019)
4-3-7: WEEKLY COLLECTION PROCEDURE:
   A.   All garbage or other items to be disposed of in the regularly scheduled
weekly residential garbage collection in the City of Chenoa shall be placed, at
the time of such pick up in adequate receptacles within three feet (3') of the
street or alley roadway to enable personnel to pick up such garbage without the
necessity of carrying it for longer distances to the disposal vehicle.
   B.   No garbage or other items to be disposed of shall be set out for pick
up more than twenty four (24) hours prior to the time of the regularly
scheduled pick up. No garbage or disposal items shall be left outside of or
allowed to leave the receptacles or be scattered outside of the receptacles.
   C.   All such receptacles shall be removed from proximity to the City right-
of-way within twenty four (24) hours after pick up.
   D.   The City may refuse to pick up or dispose of garbage or other such
items not set out in accordance with this section. In addition, violators are
subject to the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 434, 9-24-2001)
   E.   "Bulk items", defined as mattresses, furniture, appliances, and similar
items, shall be collected as part of the basic City collection system at no
additional charge, but shall only be picked up once per month, on the first
collection day of each month, or such other collection day as may be designated
by the City Council.
   F.   There shall be a limit of one (1) bulk item per residence picked up on
the first and second collection day of each month.
   G.   Any excessive amount of garbage or refuse shall be charged a surcharge
by the City to the owner or occupant of the premises, over and above the
regular monthly charge. An "excessive amount" shall be defined as an amount in
excess of the amount which could be held by a two (2) yard dumpster. The
surcharge shall be in an amount normally charged at that time by the City for
rental of a two (2) yard dumpster, or for larger amounts, for the rental of a
dumpster of a size sufficient to dispose of such larger amount. Said surcharge
shall be added to a subsequent garbage collection bill from the City to the
homeowner, and when received shall be remitted by the City to the collection
contractor responsible for pick up of such items, if any. (Ord. 574, 9-14-2009;
amd. Ord. 813, 4-13-2021)
4-3-8: CITY DUMPSTER RENTAL PROGRAM:
   A.   The City may institute a dumpster rental program for its constituents.
   B.   For those who rent a City dumpster , the City shall collect a security
deposit prior to placement. Deposits shall be as follows :
      1.   Two (2)-yard dumpster unit: fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Four (4)-yard dumpster unit: seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   Six (6)- yard dumpster unit: one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   The charge for use of City dumpsters for each time the dumpster is
emptied shall be as follows:
      1.   Two (2)-yard dumpster unit: fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Four (4)-yard dumpster unit: seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   Six (6)- yard dumpster unit: one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   D.   If a rented dumpster is not emptied within seven (7) days from the date
of placement due to no fault of the City, a ten dollar ($10.00) charge will be
assessed every week the dumpster is not emptied.
   E.   Rental of City dumpsters shall not exceed twenty- one (21) consecutive
days and will be removed from the property. Once a dumpster is removed from the
property an invoice will be mailed at the end of the month. If dumpster is
needed longer than twenty-one (21) days, the renter must contact City Hall to
check availability and pay any outstanding balance.
   F.   Once during the calendar year , a twenty-five dollar ($25.00) discount
on the dumpster units per a specific City address will be allowed.
   G.   All city dumpsters shall be equipped with a fill line towards the top
of the dumpster. If a constituent fills the dumpster above the fill line, the
City of Chenoa has the right and discretion to notify the constituent and may
further require the constituent to remove the items in excess of such fill
line. In the event the City requires the removal of items above the fill line,
the City may also reserve the right to refuse emptying the offending dumpster
(s). In addition, the City may charge a fine in accordance with the general
penalty provisions of Section
1-4-1.
   H.   The following designated items or any addition to any other items the
City may communicate from time to time shall not be placed in dumpsters:
      1.   Tires;
      2.   Automobile Batteries;
      3.   Steel;
      4.   Appliances;
      5.   Yard Waste;
      6.   Concrete; and
      7.   Bricks.
      In the event the City determines such objects have been paced in a City
dumpster, the City will implement a fine pursuant to the General Penalty
Provisions set forth in the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 771, 10-14-2019; amd. Ord. 816, 4-27-2021; Ord. 851,
12-13-2022)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS AND YARD WASTES 1
SECTION:
4-4-1: Nuisance Declared
4-4-2: Notice Of Violation
4-4-3: Removal, Lien Procedures
4-4-4: Burning Of Leaves In The City
4-4-5: Use Of City Waste Dump Premises
4-4-6: Penalty
4-4-7: Yard Waste Collection
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6, 5/11-20-7, 5/11-60-2.
4-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   No person owning, controlling or occupying any real estate in the City
shall permit weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or
other weeds of like kind, including, but not limited to, all weeds defined as
noxious weeds for purposes of the Illinois Noxious Weed Law 1 , to grow or
remain on such real estate.
   B.   No person owning, controlling or occupying any real estate in the City
shall permit grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other
ornamental plants, to grow wild or uncultivated to a height exceeding eight
inches (8") anywhere in the City, and if same are allowed to grow in violation
of this subsection, they shall constitute weeds for the purpose of this section
and of sections
4-4-2,
4-4-3 and
4-4-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Weeds or other plants growing within the City in violation of
subsections A and B of this section are declared to be a public nuisance. (Ord.
196, 1984)
 
Notes
1 2. 505 ILCS 100/1 et seq.
4-4-2: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The Parks, Public Health and Safety Commissioner, or the Chief of Police or
their authorized representative, is authorized and directed to make periodic
inspections to determine compliance with section
4-4-1 of this chapter. If violations are found to occur, a notice in
substantially the following form shall be served (personally or by certified
mail) upon the person found to be in violation:
   To:                             
You are hereby notified, in accordance with the Chenoa City Code, Section
4-4-2, that weeds are growing upon the following described real estate in
violation of the Chenoa City Code, Section
4-4-1, a copy of which is attached:
   (insert real estate description)
You are further notified that unless said weeds are cut within five (5) days
from the date of receipt of this notice that a complaint may be filed charging
a violation or violations of the above section of the Chenoa City Code and
that, additionally, the City may proceed to cut said weeds at the expense of
the owner of the real estate in question and may file a notice of lien in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of McLean County, Illinois, claiming a lien on
the premises in the amount of the cost of the cutting and removal.
   Dated this        day of                  , 20    .
                                           
                                           
                   Title
(Ord. 507, 5-22-2006)
4-4-3: REMOVAL, LIEN PROCEDURES:
   A.   If the person owning, controlling or occupying any tract or real estate
upon which weeds are growing in violation of section
4-4-1 of this chapter shall fail to cut and remove said weeds from and after
five (5) days after the date of a notice of violation served, pursuant to
section
 4-4-2 of this chapter, the City may proceed to cut and remove or to procure
the cutting and removal of the weeds at the expense of the owner of the real
estate, the cost of same to be determined in accordance with subsection B of
this section. (Ord. 507, 5-22-2006)
   B.   The cost of cutting and removal of growing plants shall be computed at
the rate of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per hour for each hour or part
thereof that any City employee works on the project, plus the cost of repair
for any damage done to City equipment due to the cutting and removal of such
plants. This amount shall be increased or decreased for each year after 2013,
according to the consumer price index change on January 1 of each year
commencing January 1, 2014.
The City shall have the right to take such legal steps to collect this legal
obligation as it deems necessary, including, but not limited to, the procedures
set forth herein as subsection C of this section.
   C.   The cost of removal of growing plants, grass and weeds by the City, as
provided in subsection B of this section, shall become a lien upon the real
estate affected; provided that, within one hundred twenty (120) days after such
costs and expenses are incurred, the City or the person performing the service
by the authority of the City in his own name files notice of lien in the Office
of the Recorder of Deeds of McLean County, Illinois, consisting of a sworn
statement setting out:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      3.   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
City. (Ord. 637, 5-28-2013)
   D.   In addition to the cost of such removal as set forth above, the City
may levy a fine for violation of this section, by levying a fine in the
following amounts:
      1.   For the first violation for a particular yard or area within a
calendar year: Fifty dollars ($50.00);
      2.   For a second violation for a particular yard or area within a
calendar year: One hundred dollars ($100.00);
      3.   For a third violation and higher, for a particular yard or area
within a calendar year: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
Such fines may be enforced in the same manner as set forth in this section for
recovery of cost of cutting and removal. (Ord. 613, 5-14-2012)
4-4-4: BURNING OF LEAVES IN THE CITY:
   A.   Leaf Burning Regulations:
      1.   Leaf burning will be allowed all year on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and
Saturdays subject to the rules and restrictions contained herein.
      2.   In the event the resident elects not to burn leaves, the City will
allow residents to continue to bag leaves in biodegradable bags and will
collect such bag.
      3.   Leaf burning will only be allowed between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the days specified.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to light or maintain any leaf fire anywhere in
the City close to or next to any building structure, or any flammable material.
It is the recommendation of the City that leaf burning occur at least fifty
feet (50') away from any structure.
      5.   Property owners and tenants may burn leaf fires only on a property
that they own or upon which they reside. At any time, a party responsible for
leaf burning may be required to provide evidence of ownership or tenancy.
      6.   It is unlawful for leaf fires to be burned on blacktop streets and/
or blacktop driveways or any street or roadway.
      7.   It shall be unlawful to burn leaf fires when winds are in excess of
ten (10) mph. All residents are asked to consult the Weather Channel or other
similar and nationally recognized weather reporting service for wind speed
information. All Chenoa residents may call the Chenoa City Clerk for wind speed
information.
      8.   It shall be unlawful to burn large piles of leaves, thereby creating
an uncontrollable fire.
      9.   Any leaf burning must be attended to by the individual conducting
the burn and must be burned until the fire is completely out. It shall be
unlawful to leave a leaf fire burning unattended.
      10.   An operable hose of sufficient size and capacity to extinguish the
fire must be available at the burning site at all times when leaves are
burning, and furthermore, must be ready for use and within the reach of the
fire.
      11.   Property owners or tenants shall keep all storm drains on private
property or on City property adjacent to or near their property free and clear
of debris, including leaves and grass clippings.
      12.   When burning leaves, the party burning shall use discretion in
determining the smoke drift and whether such drift is heading in the direction
of a roadway and reducing visibility of drivers or drifting directly towards
neighboring properties as to affect the health of the residents inside or
outside. In all instances, the party burning shall use all efforts to ascertain
whether individuals in close proximity may suffer from lung related illnesses
or asthma and schedule burns when such residents are not present.
      13.   The City reserves the right, in consultation and coordination with
the Chenoa Fire Department, to declare certain days or weeks banned for burning
due to dry or otherwise volatile weather conditions.
   B.   Extinguish Hazards: Any police officer, firefighter, or other appointed
Commissioner or officer of the City of Chenoa, may require any fire being
burned if, in that official's opinion, such fire and the related smoke are
injurious to the health or safety of any other citizens of the City, to be
immediately extinguished by any individual conducting the burn.
   C.   Other Burning Prohibited: This section only provides for burning of
leaves. Tree limbs, wood chips, grass clippings, mulch, bushes, trash, bottles,
cans, tires, or other similar items are not allowed under this section unless
provided for elsewhere in this Code.
   D.   Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to the following penalties:
      1.   First offense: A fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) if paid to
the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of the issue date of the ticket and if
not paid to the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of the issue date of the
ticket for such offense, then the fine for such offense shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Second offense within a two-year period: A fine of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) if paid to the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of the
issue date of the ticket and if not paid to the City Clerk within thirty (30)
days of the issue date of the ticket for such offense, then the fine shall be
two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      3.   Third offense and all subsequent offenses within a two-year period:
A fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) if paid to the City Clerk within
thirty (30) days of the issue date of the ticket for each such offense and if
not paid to the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of the issue date of the
ticket for each such offense, then the fine for such offense shall be three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
      If any fine imposed by this subsection D is not paid within thirty (30)
days of the issue date of the ticket for such offense, then the City Attorney
may take such legal action as is necessary to collect said fine. (Ord. 732, 10-
23-2017; amd. Ord. 821, 6-22-2021)
4-4-5: USE OF CITY WASTE DUMP PREMISES:
   A.   Regulations For Use:
      1.   The City dump premises may be used only by residents of the City and
only for the purpose of deposit of landscape waste and brush.
      2.   City residents may enter on the premises for such purpose between
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. during
working days only, and when the gates are open.
      3.   Access to the premises for such purpose during times other than
those listed above may be granted only by City employees.
   B.   Violations, Penalty: Violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall be a violation of the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code, with a minimum fine per violation of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), and every day that waste other than that allowed herein is
allowed to remain on the premises shall be a separate violation. In addition,
for those individuals found to be in violation of the these provisions by
dumping electronics, oil-based and alkyd paints, pesticides, automotive fluids,
tires, concrete, furniture, other toxic household products or any other item in
violation of this section and in excess of 75 lbs., the City reserves the right
to charge up to $750 per incident for such violation. In the event of
collection of fines for such violations, the City reserves the right to charge
collection costs including court costs and attorney’s fees relating to such
violations. (Ord. 357, 8-11-1997; amd. Ord. 831, 2-22-2022)
4-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and misdemeanor, and shall be punished pursuant to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day the violation is permitted to exist, shall
constitute a separate offense.
A violation of section
4-4-1 of this chapter shall, in lieu of or in addition to being liable for the
cost of removal as provided in section
4-4-3 of this chapter, shall also be guilty of an ordinance violation and
misdemeanor, as applicable hereunder, and punished as provided in the general
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day the conditions as described in said section
4-4-1 of this chapter are permitted to exist from receipt of notice pursuant to
section
4-4-2 of this chapter, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 196, 1984;
amd. Ord. 272, 1992; Ord. 507, 5-22-2006)
4-4-7: YARD WASTE COLLECTION:
   A.   As an alternative to the yard waste burning options set forth in
section
4-4-4, the City of Chenoa will provide yard waste collection throughout the
year. Trucks and equipment will be on a constant route rotation during this
season. Due to the nature of the collection, it is difficult to establish the
exact collection days.
   B.   The following regulations apply to yard waste collection:
      1.   For purposes of this section, "yard waste" is defined as set forth
in subsection
4-4-4(A) as natural debris such as leaves, and garden waste and shall not
include twigs, branches, logs, or mulch.
      2.   Yard waste must be bagged in biodegradable bags, placed along curb
line or shoulder, and shall not exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight.
      3.   There shall be no trash, stones, sand, animal waste, or construction
materials of any kind placed in the biodegradable bags.
      4.   There shall be no materials otherwise forbidden under subsection
4-3-3(B) of the City Code.
      5.   No mulch will be taken to the city dump.
   C.   Owners may only use contractors for tree removal or trimming that have
a valid permit with the City of Chenoa pursuant to title 3, chapter 9.
   D.   Branches And Limb Collection: Tree limbs/branches or brush limbs/
branches shall be no longer than eight feet (8') in length and shall be placed
along the curb line or shoulder, but not in the street. The owner takes the
risk that piles that are on grass or sod may cause damage to sod or grass
during pile removal. The city reserves the right to refuse pickup of any piles
that contain items other than limbs and branches or any piles otherwise not in
compliance with this section.
   F.   The city reserves the right to reject the pick-up of any and all
containers that do not comply with the conditions set forth in this section.
(Ord. 824, 10-12-2021; Ord. 801, 9-22-2020)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Running At Large Prohibited
5-1-2: Inoculation Against Rabies
5-1-3: Keeping Certain Animals Restricted
5-1-4: Dog Bites, Procedures
5-1-5: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
5-1-6: Impoundment Of Animals
5-1-7: Violation, Penalties
5-1-8: Number Of Animals
5-1-9: Removal Of Animal Excrement
5-1-10: Keeping Of Poultry
5-1-1: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Animals: It is unlawful to permit any cattle, horses, swine, sheep,
goats or poultry to run at large in the city. Any such animals running at large
in any public place in the city shall be impounded in the manner provided in
section
5-1-6 of this chapter. It is further unlawful to picket or tie any such animal
in any of the streets of the city for the purpose of grazing or feeding. (1964
Code § 396)
   B.   Dogs:
      1.   It is unlawful to permit any dog to run at large in the city at any
time. Dogs which are on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place
without being held securely on a leash shall be deemed to be running at large.
      2.   Dogs which are running at large shall be captured and impounded by
the city police department. (1964 Code § 402; amd. Ord. 184, 1982)
      3.   In addition to capture and impoundment of animals, violation of this
section shall subject the violator to the general penalty ordinance of the city
of Chenoa, title 1, chapter 4 of this code, or, if the city issues resolutions
from time to time regarding fines for violation thereof, such violation shall
be subject to the then current provisions of such resolution. (Ord. 621, 7-9-
2012)
5-1-2: INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES:
It shall be the duty of every owner who keeps, harbors, or otherwise maintains
a dog or cat more than four (4) months of age in the city to have the same
inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. Dogs must have a valid
rabies certificate according to the laws of the state of Illinois. For dogs,
the type and brand of the antirabies vaccine used and the method of inoculation
shall be in accordance with and evidenced by a rabies tag specified by the
applicable laws of the state of Illinois. Any dog or cat which is not
inoculated against rabies as required herein is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and such dog or cat may be apprehended and impounded. (Ord. 490, 1-24-
2005)
5-1-3: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
Except for such swine or pigs which have been domesticated, and except for
chickens or ducks which comply with the provisions of section
5-1-10 of this chapter, it is unlawful to keep any live sheep, goats, cattle,
poultry, swine or pigs in the city. (Ord. 642, 10-14-2013)
5-1-4: DOG BITES, PROCEDURES:
Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of the dog shall immediately notify
the city police department, which shall take appropriate action, including
notification of appropriate health authorities, pursuant to statute. In the
absence of action taken by other appropriate authorities, the chief of police
or his authorized representative may order the dog to be held on the owner's
premises or may have it impounded for a period of fifteen (15) days. The dog
shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian immediately after it has bitten
anyone and again at the end of the fifteen (15) day period. If at the end of
the fifteen (15) day period the veterinarian is convinced that the dog is free
of rabies, he shall order the dog released from quarantine or the pound as the
case may be. (1964 Code § 405; amd. Ord. 184, 1982)
5-1-5: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Sanitary Premises: No person shall cause or allow any stable or place
where any animal is or may be kept to become unclean, or unwholesome. (1964
Code § 399)
   B.   Diseased Animals:
      1.   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of man or beast may be affected, nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the
supervision of the chief of police or the parks, public health and safety
commissioner.
      2.   It is the duty of the parks, public health and safety commissioner
to secure such deposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected
premises as to prevent the communication and spread of the contagion or
infection, except in cases where the state veterinarian is empowered to act.
(1964 Code § 396)
   C.   Cruelty To Animals: No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the
city in any way, and any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or
abandons any animal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
(1964 Code § 393)
   D.   Noise Restriction: It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which
disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night. (1964 Code §
395)
5-1-6: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Pound Designated:
      1.   The chief of police may designate a facility or enclosure to be used
as the municipal pound. Upon capture of any dogs pursuant to this chapter or
capture of any animals pursuant to any other statute or ordinance, the police
shall transfer and impound such animals therein.
      2.   Animals which are impounded in the city pound shall be kept therein
until redeemed or until disposition, if unredeemed, as set forth in this
chapter. (1964 Code § 403; amd. Ord. 184, 1982)
   B.   Redemption, Fees: Any owner seeking to redeem any impounded animal
shall first obtain a release permit from the chief of police or his authorized
representative. A release permit shall not be issued until the fine in the
event an ordinance violation citation is used, the pound boarding fee, based on
the number of days that the animal is boarded in the pound, and any other
charges as set forth in this chapter are paid. In the event an ordinance
violation citation has not been issued, then the release permit shall be issued
upon payment, in addition to the other payments as set forth herein, in the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first such impoundment for that
animal, seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the second impoundment, and one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each impoundment for such animal thereafter.
(Ord. 638, 5-28-2013)
   C.   Redemption, Other Charges: If, during the period of impoundment, the
animals undergo any treatment and incur any costs as required by statute,
ordinance or rule of the pound, including, but not limited to, rabies shots,
distemper shots and other inoculations, such charges shall be added to the
total due from the owner or other claimant prior to obtaining a release permit.
   D.   Redemption Period: Animals held in the pound shall be held at least
seven (7) days for redemption. At the end of the period, unredeemed animals
shall be humanely dispatched, offered for adoption or otherwise disposed of by
the pound as a stray animal in accordance with laws that exist or may hereafter
exist concerning same.
   E.   Redemption Hours: Animals may be redeemed at the pound only during the
normal office hours of the pound. (Ord. 184, 1982)
5-1-7: VIOLATION, PENALTIES:
The provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code shall apply to any violation of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 503, 11-14-2005)
5-1-8: NUMBER OF ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or possess more than
four (4) dogs or more than four (4) cats or more than four (4) of any species
of animal in any one dwelling unit or the premises surrounding a dwelling unit.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises to permit any person to own,
keep, harbor or possess more than four (4) dogs or more than four (4) cats or
more than four (4) of any species of animal in any one dwelling unit or the
premises surrounding a dwelling unit. The foregoing shall not apply to animals
less than six (6) months old. (Ord. 693, 8-10-2015)
5-1-9: REMOVAL OF ANIMAL EXCREMENT:
   A.   It shall be deemed in violation of the provisions of this section if an
owner of a dog shall permit such dog to discharge animal excreta upon any
public or private property within the city other than the property of such
owner, and shall fail immediately thereafter to remove same and clean up such
public or private property.
   B.   Violation of this section shall subject the violator to a fine pursuant
to section
1-4-1 of this code, and which shall not be less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) for a first violation. (Ord. 491, 3-14-2005)
5-1-10: KEEPING OF POULTRY:
   A.   Chickens and ducks may be kept in the City of Chenoa by the property/
title holders or upon the consent of the property title holders, provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   No person shall keep more than a total of eight (8) chickens and/or
ducks at any location or on any lot.
      2.   No roosters, guinea fowl or any unreasonably loud species of chicken
shall be kept.
      3.   No person shall slaughter any chickens or ducks, except at a state
or county licensed slaughtering facility.
      4.   No personal shall keep chickens or ducks except in a fenced in area
with a covered enclosure for protection of the animals.
      5.   No person shall keep a chicken or duck enclosure closer than 25 feet
to any residential structure on an adjacent lot, unless written permission is
given by the owner of such adjacent lot.
      6.   No person shall allow the accumulation of waste material from
chickens or ducks as to create an offensive odor or nuisance.
   B.   In the event of consistent noise complaints from neighboring properties
and upon investigation by the City, the City reserves the right to reduce the
poultry requirements for any property. At no time will the City consider
economic factors for the cost of purchase of poultry to dictate the increase or
reduction in the allowable poultry. (Ord. 843, 10-11-2022)
ARTICLE A. CATS
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Running At Large
5-1A-2: Appointment Of Animal Warden
5-1A-3: Trapping Stray Or Wild Cats
5-1A-4: Impoundment Practices
5-1A-5: Enforcement
5-1A-1: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Definition: "Running at large" means off the premises of the owner and
not under physical restraint by means of a leash, cord or chain or confined by
means of a secure enclosure. It shall be unlawful to permit to run at large any
cat on the streets, parts, or public ways of the city or on private property
where the owner or person in control of the private property has not granted
permission for the cat to be on the private property. If any cat shall be found
running at large upon public property or upon the private premises of any
person other than the owner or keeper of such cat, the owner or keeper of such
cat shall be deemed guilty of violation of this subsection. A violation of this
subsection shall be considered an absolute liability offense.
   B.   Impoundment: Any cat which runs at large is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and such cat may be apprehended and impounded if found running
at large by any police officer, animal warden, or other person authorized by
the city. (Ord. 490, 1-24-2005)
5-1A-2: APPOINTMENT OF ANIMAL WARDEN:
The city council may, from time to time, and upon such terms and conditions as
it deems proper, contract with any qualified person or corporation, and may,
pursuant to said contract, appoint such person, firm or corporation, as animal
warden and he shall be ex officio poundmaster of and for the city. (Ord. 490,
1-24-2005)
5-1A-3: TRAPPING STRAY OR WILD CATS:
   A.   No person shall set a trap with the intention of capturing a cat in the
city of Chenoa except under the following circumstances:
      1.   The chief of police or his designee has determined that a nuisance
situation exists; and
      2.   The chief of police or his designee has authorized the trap; and
      3.   Notice has been sent either in writing at least five (5) days in
advance of the placement of the trap to the property owners abutting the
property upon which the trap is to be placed, or a sign is placed in front of
the property where the trap is to be placed five (5) days in advance of the
placement indicating that a trap will be set.
   B.   The foregoing shall not apply in the following situations:
      1.   To authorized persons attempting to catch suspected rabid, dangerous
or vicious cat which may be injured and in need of veterinary treatment.
      2.   To authorized not for profit associations engaging in trap-neuter-
release programs in situations where those programs do not create or further a
nuisance in the city of Chenoa.
      3.   In emergency situations where the trapping of cats is needed to
protect the health and safety of the public or its pets as determined by the
chief of police or his designee.
   C.   No person shall disturb any trap or release any cat from any trap
placed pursuant to this section. (Ord. 490, 1-24-2005)
5-1A-4: IMPOUNDMENT PRACTICES:
   A.   Record Of Impoundment: Immediately after receiving a cat for
impounding, the animal warden, or his designee, shall record a description of
the cat impounded, and the date of the impoundment.
   B.   Search For Record Owner: The animal warden shall upon receiving a cat
for impoundment inspect the cat for a rabies tag, microchip or other tag
indicating the owner of the cat.
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment: The animal warden shall send written notice to a
known owner within two (2) business days of receiving a cat for impoundment
informing the owner of any cat being held by the animal warden.
   D.   Fees: The owner of any impounded cat may redeem the cat by paying a
city of Chenoa release fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00), and any and all
fees required by the impoundment facility.
   E.   Postimpoundment Hearing: An owner of any cat impounded pursuant to this
section may request a hearing before the city health commissioner, or his
designee, regarding the authority of the impoundment facility to impound the
cat. The hearing shall take place within five (5) business days of the request
for hearing. The city health commissioner, or his designee, may order the cat
released from impoundment, with or without payment of any fees, or held in
compliance with this section. At any hearing pursuant to this subsection, the
city health commissioner or his designee may consider hearsay evidence,
including, but not limited to, reports of animal control officers. Upon request
for a hearing, the city health commissioner or his designee shall immediately
give notice to the animal warden. No cat may be disposed of until seven (7)
days after the decision of the city health commissioner or his designee.
   F.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Cats: Cats not redeemed by the owner or any
other person are hereby declared a public nuisance. Cats for which the
impoundment facility has determined an owner may be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of state law seven (7) business days after notice has been
sent to the owner. Cats for which the impoundment facility has not been able to
determine an owner may be disposed of in accordance with state law three (3)
business days after the cat was received by the impoundment facility. The
animal warden shall make reasonable efforts to find adoptive homes for
unredeemed cats prior to disposing of the cats. (Ord. 490, 1-24-2005)
5-1A-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The chief of police and such other persons as may be designated by him,
and the animal warden as authorized by this chapter, are hereby authorized and
directed to enforce this chapter. Provided however, that the animal warden
shall not be authorized to make arrests or charge any parties with chapter
violations hereunder. The city council may, from time to time, and upon such
terms and conditions as it deems proper, contract with any qualified person or
corporation, and may, pursuant to said contract, provide said person or
corporation with the power to enforce the provisions of this chapter. In the
absence of the appointment by the city council of any other person or company
as poundmaster, the chief of police shall be the poundmaster, the other members
of the police department shall assist him under this direction in carrying out
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Violation herein shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day during which a violation is allowed to
continue shall be deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 490, 1-24-2005)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS AND WELFARE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Offenses Against Public Officials
5-2-1-1: Impersonation Or Interference
5-2-1-2: False Fire Alarms
5-2-2: Assault Or Battery
5-2-3: Offenses Against Public Decency
5-2-3-1: Gambling
5-2-3-2: Prostitution
5-2-3-3: Obscene Materials
5-2-3-4: Spitting
5-2-4: Offenses Against Public Peace
5-2-4-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-4-2: Conduct At Assemblages
5-2-4-3: Alcohol Related Offenses
5-2-4-4: Hunting Or Killing Animals
5-2-4-5: Missiles, Injurious Articles
5-2-4-6: Whistles
5-2-4-7: Games In Public Places
5-2-4-8: Loitering
5-2-4-9: Cannabis, Controlled Substances, Synthetic Drugs, Look Alike
Substances, And Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited
5-2-5: Offenses Against Property
5-2-5-1: Combustible Refuse Storage
5-2-5-2: Bonfires
5-2-5-3: Injuring Public Property
5-2-5-4: Obstructing Stairways Or Exits
5-2-5-5: Prohibited Advertising
5-2-5-6: Metal Detectors
5-2-5-7: Operation Of Any Motorized Vehicles On Public Ways
5-2-6: Consumer Protection
5-2-7: Offenses Concerning Minors
5-2-7-1: Curfew
5-2-7-2: Tobacco Products
5-2-7-3: School Truancy
5-2-7-4: Alcoholic Liquor
5-2-8: Discharging Firearms, Weapons
5-2-9: Penalties
5-2-1: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
5-2-1-1: IMPERSONATION OR INTERFERENCE:
   A.   Impersonation: It is unlawful for any person to impersonate without
lawful authority any city officer or employee. (1964 Code § 75)
   B.   Interference: It is unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or
employee of the city while engaged in the duties of his office. (1964 Code §
76)
5-2-1-2: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any false alarm of
fire in the city. (1964 Code § 482)
5-2-2: ASSAULT OR BATTERY:
It is unlawful for any person to commit any assault or battery or to fight in
any public place in the city. (1964 Code § 481)
5-2-3: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY:
5-2-3-1: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful to gamble or attend any gambling resort or
to make any bet, lottery or gambling hazard, or to buy or sell any chances or
tickets in any gambling game, arrangement or device, unless permitted by state
law. (Ord. 614, 5-29-2012)
   B.   Gambling Paraphernalia: It is unlawful to possess any gambling device
or paraphernalia with the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose and
any such device or paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by
any member of the police department. (1964 Code § 469)
   C.   Maintaining A Gambling Establishment: It is unlawful to maintain or
patronize any establishment maintained for a gambling house or resort anywhere
in the city or within one mile thereof. (1964 Code § 470)
   D.   Advertising: It is unlawful to advertise any gambling house or resort
in any street, alley or other public place within the city. (1964 Code § 471)
5-2-3-2: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Practicing: It is unlawful for any person to practice prostitution in
the city. (1964 Code § 473)
   B.   Soliciting: It is unlawful for any person to solicit on any street,
alley or other public place in the city for the purpose of inducing any person
to engage in prostitution or any unlawful sexual intercourse of any kind. (1964
Code § 474)
   C.   Frequenting House Of Ill Fame: It is unlawful to maintain, frequent or
patronize any house of ill fame or house of prostitution in the city. (1964
Code § 475)
5-2-3-3: OBSCENE MATERIALS:
   A.   Possession: It is unlawful for any person to sell, deliver, offer for
sale, distribute, publish, print, exhibit or possess with intent to distribute,
with knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to
exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content
thereof, any obscene writing, picture, moving picture, record or other
representation or embodiment of the obscene, or to present or to direct an
obscene play or other performance or to perform an obscene act or otherwise
present an obscene exhibition or to advertise or otherwise promote obscene
material.
   B.   Determination Criteria: A thing is deemed to be obscene if the average
person would find that the work taken as a whole appeals to a prurient
interest, and the work depicts or describes patently offensive representations
or descriptions of nude persons, ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted
sexual conduct, whether actual or simulated, or patently offensive
representations or descriptions of masturbation, excretory functions, and lewd
exhibition of the human genitals. The work, taken as a whole, must lack serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value. In assessing whether an
average person would find that the work taken as a whole appeals to a prurient
interest, it is to be assumed that the average person is applying contemporary
community standards.
   C.   Defense For Dissemination: It shall be an affirmative defense to
obscenity that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for gain, and was made to personal associates other than
children under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material. (Ord. 128, 1979)
5-2-3-4: SPITTING:
It is unlawful to spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk or other public
place, or on the floor or walls of any store, theater, hall, public vehicle or
other place frequented by the public, or to which the public is invited. (1964
Code § 429)
5-2-4: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE:
5-2-4-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct or of any
conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making of any
unnecessary loud noise and shouting or yelling shall be considered disorderly
conduct. (1964 Code § 477)
5-2-4-2: CONDUCT AT ASSEMBLAGES:
   A.   Disturbing Assemblages: It is unlawful for any person to disturb any
lawful assemblage or gathering in the city. (1964 Code § 483)
   B.   Unlawful Assemblages: It is unlawful to collect, gather or to be a
member of any disorderly crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful
purpose. (1964 Code § 488)
5-2-4-3: ALCOHOL RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Public Intoxication: It is unlawful for any person to be in an
intoxicated condition in or on any street, alley or other public place in the
city. (1964 Code § 478)
   B.   Consumption In Public Places:
      1.   Definition: As used in this section:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes or intended for beverage purposes.
      2.   Prohibition: No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor or be in
possession of any flask, can, glass or other open container containing
alcoholic liquor in the following places:
         a.   On any street, roadway, alley, park, sidewalk or other public
property in the city;
         b.   On any grounds owned by or under the control of a public school
district within the city. (Ord. 200, 1984)
5-2-4-4: HUNTING OR KILLING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in killing or to hunt any animal other
than as prescribed by law, in the city. (1964 Code § 485)
5-2-4-5: MISSILES, INJURIOUS ARTICLES:
It is unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any missile on any street, alley, or
public place; and it is unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, nails, tacks,
or other similar articles on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place
in the city. (1964 Code § 486)
5-2-4-6: WHISTLES:
It is unlawful to blow or cause to be sounded any steam whistle of any
stationary engine or steam engine in the city except as a signal for starting
or stopping work or in emergencies to avoid or to prevent injury to persons or
property. (1964 Code § 498)
5-2-4-7: GAMES IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It is unlawful to play any game upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place where such game causes unnecessary noise or interferes with
traffic or pedestrians. (1964 Code § 104)
5-2-4-8: LOITERING:
   A.   It is unlawful to loiter or lounge in the streets and sidewalks of the
city, or in or about any public grounds, public places or buildings for any
immoral purpose, or to annoy, disturb or insult other persons with the evident
intent of so annoying, disturbing or insulting, by any acts, gestures or
language, or for immoral purposes to stand or be in or about any of the
streets, alleys, walks, bridges, public grounds or other places within the city
during either the day or night.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to loiter or remain
in or about the area within six hundred fifty feet (650') of the property line
of any property used for school purposes unless such person has a relationship
involving custody of or responsibility for a pupil or student, or is attending
activities or functions sponsored by the school, or resides within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the school, or is visiting a resident within such area or has
written permission from an authorized agent of the school. Unless flight by
such person or other circumstance makes it impracticable, any police officer
shall, prior to an arrest for an offense under this subsection, afford such
person an opportunity to explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be
convicted of an offense under this subsection if the police officer did not
comply with the preceding sentence or if it appears at trial that the
explanation given by such person was true and, if believed by the police
officer at the time, would have served as justification for his presence
pursuant to this section. (Ord. 171, 1984; amd. Ord. 283, 1993)
5-2-4-9: CANNABIS, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, SYNTHETIC DRUGS, LOOK ALIKE
SUBSTANCES, AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
   CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivatives, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Includes any controlled substance or controlled substance
analog as defined in section 102 of the Illinois controlled substances act 1 ,
as amended from time to time.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
including methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in section 10 of
the "methamphetamine control and community protection act" 2 , which are used,
intended for use, designed for use, or peculiar to or marketed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis, a controlled
substance, or a look alike substance in violation of the "cannabis control act"
1 , the "Illinois controlled substances act" 2 , the "methamphetamine control
and community protection act" 3 , or this section. This includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Kits that are possessed or intended for use, designed for use, or
peculiar to or marketed for use in manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled substance;
      2.   Isomerization devices that are used, intended for use, designed for
use, or peculiar to or marketed for use to increase the potency of any species
of plant which is cannabis or a controlled substance;
      3.   Testing equipment that is used, intended for use, designed for use,
or peculiar to or marketed for private home use in identifying or in analyzing
the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis or controlled substances;
      4.   Diluents and adulterants that are used, intended for use, designed
for use, or peculiar to or marketed for use in cutting cannabis or a controlled
substance by private persons;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use, or
peculiar to and marketed for use in weighing or measuring controlled substances
or cannabis;
      6.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, designed for
use, or peculiar to or marketed for use in storing or concealing controlled
substances;
      7.   Objects that are: a) used or intended for use, b) designed for use,
or c) peculiar to or marketed for use in injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, or any
controlled substance into the human body including, where applicable, but not
limited to, the following items:
           a. Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes,
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
          b. Water pipes;
         c. Carburetion tubes and devices;
          d. Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e. Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         f. Carburetor pipes;
         g. Electric pipes;
          h. Air driven pipes;
           i. Chillums;
          j. Bongs;
           k. Ice pipes or chillers;
      8.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section or the "drug paraphernalia control act" 6
.
LOOK ALIKE SUBSTANCES: A substance which: 1) by its overall dosage unit
appearance, including shape, color, size, markings or lack thereof, taste,
consistency, or any other identifying physical characteristic of the substance,
would lead a reasonable person to believe that the substance is cannabis, a
controlled substance, or a synthetic drug; or 2) is expressly or impliedly
represented to be cannabis, a controlled substance, or a synthetic drug, or
distributed under circumstances which would lead a reasonable person to believe
that the substance is cannabis, a controlled substance, or a synthetic drug.
For the purpose of determining whether the representations made or the
circumstances of the distribution would lead a reasonable person to believe the
substance to be cannabis, a controlled substance, or a synthetic drug under
this subsection 2 of this definition, the court or other authority may consider
the following factors in addition to any other factor that may be relevant: a)
statements made by the owner or person in control of the substance concerning
its nature, use or effect; b) statements made to the buyer or recipient that
the substance may be resold for profit; c) whether the substance is packaged in
the manner normally used for the illegal distribution of controlled substances;
d) whether the distribution or attempted distribution included an exchange of
or demand for money or other property as consideration and whether the amount
of the consideration was substantially greater than the reasonable retail
market value of the substance.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions similarly
to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including,
but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound,
mixture, preparation, substance, and their analog (including isomers, esters,
ethers, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist.
SYNTHETIC DRUGS: Any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant, or
psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms are defined herein.
SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of any
federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to, any
quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation,
substance, and their analogs (including salts, isomers, esters, ethers, and
salts of isomers), containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain.
SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analogs
(including salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which
have a stimulating effect on the central nervous system.
   B.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, keep for
sale, sell, or deliver for any commercial consideration cannabis, a controlled
substance, a synthetic drug, a look alike substance, or drug paraphernalia.
   C.   Nuisance: It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a
nuisance for any store, place or premises to keep for sale, offer for sale,
sell, or deliver for any commercial consideration any synthetic drug or item of
drug paraphernalia.
   D.   Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to a charge under this
section that the accused had authority to possess, keep for sale, offer for
sale, sell, or deliver any item or substance prohibited in this section
pursuant to the Illinois controlled substances act 7 , or that the accused is
legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or needles under the
hypodermic syringes and needles act 8 . (Ord. 611, 4-9-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 570/102.
2 2. 720 ILCS 646/10.
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
3 3. 720 ILCS 646/1 et seq.
6 1. 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq.
7 1. 720 ILCS 570/101 et seq.
8 1. 720 ILCS 635/0.01 et seq.
5-2-5: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY:
5-2-5-1: COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE STORAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to permit or store any combustible refuse in such
a way as to create a fire hazard or to store or throw any refuse of any kind on
any street, alley or other public place. (1964 Code § 484)
5-2-5-2: BONFIRES:
It is unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any building or
structure as to endanger same, or on any public street, or sidewalk pavement,
or light any bonfire after four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on any given day without
the permission of the chief of police or the police officer on duty at that
time. (1964 Code § 489; amd. 2000 Code)
5-2-5-3: INJURING PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It is unlawful to injure, mar, disfigure, deface or interfere with any property
belonging to the city, including specifically, but not limited to, all
decorative or ornamental street lighting fixtures, and any building murals
owned or created under the authority of or on or adjoining any city property,
without prior authority from the city council. Any person violating the
provisions of this section shall be fined not less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
replace or be in lieu of any prosecution for criminal damage to property or
violation of any other provisions of the Illinois criminal code. (Ord. 367, 6-
22-1998)
5-2-5-4: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS:
It is unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway, aisle,
corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building used by two
(2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (1964 Code § 499)
5-2-5-5: PROHIBITED ADVERTISING:
   A.   Unlawful Advertising, Defacing Lawful Advertisements: It is unlawful to
advertise any unlawful business or article in the city, and it is unlawful to
injure or deface any lawful advertisement or notice. (1964 Code § 487)
   B.   Unauthorized Billposting: It is unlawful to post any bills or
advertisements on any public property without the authority of the city
council, and it is unlawful to post any bill or advertisement on any property
without the written consent of the owner thereof. (1964 Code § 492)
5-2-5-6: METAL DETECTORS:
The use of metal detectors and related devices or equipment used for the
purpose of ascertaining the existence and whereabouts of items of metallic
construction, coins and similar items is prohibited on property owned by the
city, or on property dedicated for public use, either expressly or impliedly.
(Ord. 136, 1979)
5-2-5-7: OPERATION OF ANY MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   No person shall, after the effective date hereof, operate any motorized
scooter, motorized skateboard, motorized bicycle or other motorized vehicle on
any public way or sidewalk, in the city of Chenoa.
   B.   The following vehicles shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section: 1) vehicles licensed by the secretary of the state of Illinois as
motor vehicles; 2) vehicles manufactured and designed for the transport of
handicapped persons as those persons have been defined by the state and federal
law; 3) landscaping equipment.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section may be punished by
a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense.
   D.   The city of Chenoa police department shall have the authority to seize
any motorized scooter, motorized skateboard, motorized bicycle or other
motorized vehicle when operated on any public way or sidewalk in violation of
the provisions of this section.
   E.   When the determination is made to seize any motorized scooter,
motorized skateboard, motorized bicycle or other motorized vehicle, the police
shall obtain the identity of the owner or person operating the equipment and
give the person a receipt listing and describing items seized. Items seized or
impounded shall be kept in custody until fines are paid or judicial process
involving the case has been completed. In instances where the offender is under
the age of eighteen (18), the items seized may only be released to the
offender's parent or legal guardian.
   F.   For repeat offenses of this section, police may seek permission in the
court for disposition or destruction of the equipment.
   G.   For subsequent violations, reports concerning the same address or same
individual, the police prosecutor shall be empowered to seek a criminal
complaint based on documents filed and to seek the imposition of a fine and/or
community service at the discretion of the court. (Ord. 534, 6-25-2007)
5-2-6: CONSUMER PROTECTION:
It is unlawful for any person, by himself or his agents or servants, to
distribute, cast, throw or place or cause to be distributed, thrown or cast or
placed in, upon or along any of the streets, alleys or other public places in
the city, or upon the porches or yards of private residences therein or within
any dwelling or building in the city, any samples of merchandise or medicinal
preparations for the purpose or with the intent of advertising or making known
in a general or promiscuous manner any business, occupation, proposition,
medical treatment, medicine or any other articles whatsoever. (1964 Code § 494)
5-2-7: OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS:
5-2-7-1: CURFEW:
For the preservation and promotion of peace in the city, there is imposed
within the city a curfew as follows: No person less than eighteen (18) years of
age shall be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or
highway at the following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent,
legal guardian or other responsible companion at least eighteen (18) years of
age approved by a parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the law of the state of Illinois authorizes a person less than
eighteen (18) years of age to perform:
   Between 12.01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Saturday;
   Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Sunday; and
   Between 11:00 P.M. Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 A.M. on the
following day. (Ord. 370, 8-10-1998)
5-2-7-2: TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section:
   TO SMOKE: Light, emit or exhale the smoke of a pipe, cigar, cigarette or any
other tobacco product.
   B.   Possession Of Tobacco By Minors: No minor under eighteen (18) years of
age shall have in his possession any cigar or cigarette or tobacco in any of
its forms. It shall not be a violation of this section for any person under
eighteen (18) years of age to possess tobacco while in the presence of his
parents or guardian, or in the performance of a religious ceremony, or while
participating in a theatrical performance. (Ord. 304, 1994)
   C.   Sale Of Tobacco To Minors: The sale of tobacco products to minors
within the city of Chenoa is specifically prohibited.
   D.   Enforcement: The city of Chenoa shall undertake the authority to
regulate such sale of tobacco products, by on the spot inspections and other
regulatory and enforcement activities, to ensure that such sales are not
carried out within the city limits. (Ord. 443, 6-10-2002)
5-2-7-3: SCHOOL TRUANCY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years enrolled in a public or private school within the corporate limits of the
city of Chenoa, Illinois, to absent himself or herself from attendance at
school, during such period when school is in session, without parental
permission or valid excuse.
   B.   A valid cause for absence from school shall include illness, death in
the immediate family, other family emergency, or other causes beyond the
control of the person so absenting himself or herself from school, provided
that parental permission for absence due to such cause is obtained in writing,
from the parent and is submitted to the proper school authorities within twenty
four (24) hours after such absence, not counting weekends.
   C.   Parental permission, as required by this section, shall refer to and
include permission obtained from a parent, legal guardian, other adult person
standing in loco parentis and having custody and control over such person under
the age of eighteen (18) years.
   D.   Each day that such person under eighteen (18) years of age absents
himself or herself from school attendance shall constitute a separate offense,
and shall be punishable as such.
   E.   Persons violating this section shall be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00), nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 414, 1-22-2001)
5-2-7-4: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR 1 :
   A.   For purpose of this section, "alcoholic liquor" shall be defined as any
spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more than one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes or
intended for beverage purposes.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to purchase, or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic
liquor in his or her possession.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to consume alcoholic liquor.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to represent that he or she is twenty one (21) years of age or over for
the purpose of buying, accepting or receiving alcoholic liquor.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to present or offer to any city of Chenoa alcoholic liquor licensee,
agent or employee thereof any written, printed, or photostatic evidence of age
and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own for the
purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise procuring
or attempting to procure alcoholic liquor.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to have in his or her possession, any false or fraudulent written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity.
   G.   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of
twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or
service.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any clerk or employee of a licensed liquor
establishment to give, deliver, or sell alcoholic liquor to another person
under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   I.   No person shall sell any alcoholic liquor to any other person unless
the seller has a license to sell liquor in the city of Chenoa. A violation of
this subsection is punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   J.   The possession and dispensing, or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or the consumption
by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent
of such minor in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 453, 3-10-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
5-2-8: DISCHARGING FIREARMS, WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharging Prohibited: It is unlawful to discharge any firearms, air
gun or bows and arrows in the city; provided, that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit any officer of the law to discharge a firearm in the
performance of his duty, nor to any citizen to discharge a firearm when
lawfully defending his property or person; and provided further, that this
section shall not prohibit the use of bows and arrows in a duly authorized
physical education class under the supervision of a qualified instructor.
   B.   Exception: Notwithstanding the foregoing, use of bows and arrows is
allowed on the city dump premises, at a site thereon to be approved by the city
and with both targets and equipment to be provided by the user, for any city
resident who has preregistered with the city clerk. Access to the premises and
times and regulations regarding use shall be according to city policy as set by
the commissioner in charge of the city landfill, or by the city council. (Ord.
341, 9-12-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
5-2-9: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall subject the offender to the provisions of the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Fireworks
5-3-2: Explosives
5-3-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Sale, Keeping Of: It is unlawful for any person to sell, keep, expose
for sale, loan or give away a toy pistol, toy gun, toy cannon, blank cartridge
or any fireworks, firecrackers, torpedoes, bombs, squibs, rockets, spin-wheels,
fire balloons, roman candles, detonating canes or ammunition therefor, or any
substance or articles of any explosive nature to be used as fireworks anywhere
in the City. (1964 Code § 432)
   B.   Possession Or Discharge, Exception: It is unlawful for any person to be
possessed of or to discharge anywhere in the City any of the articles
enumerated in subsection A of this Section; provided, however, that the City
Council may issue a permit for the discharge of fireworks and for pyrotechnical
displays as provided in the following subsection. (1964 Code § 433)
   C.   Public Display: Permit Required:
      1.   Application for permits for the discharge of fireworks or for
pyrotechnical displays shall be in writing and shall state the name of the
person, place or residence and age, the place where it is proposed to give such
public displays of fireworks, what experience the applicant has had, if any, in
the discharge of fireworks, such application being sworn to before a notary
public or other officer authorized by law to administer oaths.
      2.   Upon receipt of such applicant's statement, the City Council shall
refer the same to the Chief of Police and Chief of the Fire Department who
shall have an inspection made of the premises at the location given and if, in
the judgment of the Chief of Police and Chief of Fire Department, it would not
be hazardous to surrounding property or dangerous to any person to permit such
public display of fireworks at such location, they shall approve the
application and return same to the City Council.
      3.   After approval of the Chief of Police and Chief of Fire Department,
the City Council shall issue a permit upon payment of a fee of ten dollars
($10.00) giving the applicant permission to conduct such public display of
fireworks.
      4.   The permit shall designate the kinds and quantities of fireworks to
be used at such public display, and no other kinds and no greater quantities of
fireworks shall be used at such public display. (1964 Code § 434)
5-3-2: EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Storage Restrictions: It is unlawful to keep or store any
nitroglycerine or the explosive commonly known as TNT in the City in any
quantities, excepting for medicinal or laboratory purposes, and for such
purposes no more than one-quarter (1/4) pound shall be stored in any one
building or premises. (1964 Code § 435)
   B.   Storage Regulations: All explosives must be kept or stored in
accordance with the rules of the State Fire Marshal, subject to the provisions
of this Chapter. (1964 Code § 436)
CHAPTER 4
NOISE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: General Prohibition
5-4-3: Specific Acts Prohibited
5-4-4: Decibel Levels
5-4-5: Exemptions
5-4-6: Penalty
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health, safety,
welfare, peace, and quiet of the residents of the city through the reduction,
control, and prevention of unreasonably loud and raucous sounds, or any noise
that unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as preventing the lawful exercise of the right to
free speech protected by the constitutions of the United States and the state
of Illinois. (Ord. 630, 1-14-2013)
5-4-2: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued or to allow to be made on a premises under the person's ownership or
control any unreasonably loud and raucous noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others,
within the limits of the city regardless of the time of day or night.
Prohibited acts may be established both or either by the testimony of persons
who have heard the noises and by recorded decibel levels. (Ord. 630, 1-14-2013)
5-4-3: SPECIFIC ACTS PROHIBITED:
The following acts, as illustrations, among others, are declared to be loud,
raucous, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but
this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, and all noises shall be
judged by the standard provided in section
5-4-2 of this chapter:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public place
of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such
signaling device of any unreasonably loud or raucous noise; and the sounding of
any such device for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   B.   Sound Reproducing Devices: The using, operating or permitting to be
played, used or operated any musical instrument, machine or electronic device,
or other objects for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or any
time with louder volume than is necessary for the convenient hearing for the
person or persons who are in the room, chamber, vehicle or outdoor area in
which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners
thereto. The operation of any such instrument, machine or device between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in such a
manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of seventy five feet (75') from
the location of such instrument, machine or device shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this subsection.
   C.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers: The using, operating, or permitting to be
played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or electronic device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets
for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the
public.
   D.   Exhausts: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom.
   E.   Schools And Churches: The creation of any excessive noise on any street
adjacent to or across a real property boundary of any school, institution of
learning, or church while the same is in use, which unreasonably interferes
with the workings of such institution.
   F.   Industrial Activities: The operation between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any pile driver, steam
shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance,
industrial cutting tools, machines or vehicles, the use of which is attended by
loud or raucous noise.
   G.   Yelling, Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, singing,
particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M., or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the peace,
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in the surrounding area. (Ord. 630, 1-14-
2013)
5-4-4: DECIBEL LEVELS:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated on any property within the city
any continuous, predictable or recurring source of sound in such a manner as to
create a sound pressure level measured on a sound level meter using the A-
weighting network at or within the property limits of the receiving residential
property which exceeds fifty five (55) decibels between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Sunday night to Saturday
morning and the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. through eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M., Saturday night to Sunday morning. Any person providing testimony on
electronic measurements shall use procedures for the measurement of sound that
conform to the standards and recommended practices established by the American
National Standards Institute, Inc. (Ord. 630, 1-14-2013)
5-4-5: EXEMPTIONS:
Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set forth in
this section:
   A.   Repairs Of Utility Structures: Repairs of utility structures, which are
damaged, in disrepair, or out of service and such condition pose a clear and
immediate danger to life, health, or significant loss of property.
   B.   Lawful Use Of Emergency Vehicles: Sirens, whistles, or bells lawfully
used by emergency vehicles, or other alarm systems used in case of fire,
collision, civil defense, police activity, or imminent danger.
   C.   Outdoor School And Playground Activities: Reasonable activities
conducted on public playgrounds which are conducted in accordance with the
manner in which such spaces are generally used, including, but not limited to,
school athletic and school entertainment events.
   D.   Other Outdoor Events: Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows,
parades, festivals, and other similar outdoor events, provided that permission
has been obtained from the city.
   E.   City Sponsored Events: Any event that is sponsored by and directly
controlled by the city or its designee.
   F.   Outdoor Church Activities: Outdoor church activities that can not be
heard from a distance of more than one hundred feet (100') beyond the church
property boundaries between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of the following day, except that a church may sound chapel bells
periodically so long as each said ringing does not continue for an unreasonable
amount of time. (Ord. 630, 1-14-2013)
5-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be given a written warning for the first offense, be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second offense and not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for any subsequent offense. A separate and
distinct offense is deemed committed each day such violation continues. (Ord.
630, 1-14-2013)
CHAPTER 5
BEEKEEPING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Regulation
5-5-3: Violation
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
APIARY: A hive where bee colonies are kept.
BEES: The common honeybee Apis mellifera (L) in any state of its life cycle.
HIVE: A frame hive, box hive, box, barrel, log gum, skep or other receptacle or
container, natural or artificial, or any part thereof, which is used or
employed as a domicile for bees.
NUCLEUS: A standard nine and five-eighths inch (95/8") depth ten (10) frame
hive body with no supers attached.
PARCEL OF LAND: Any separate parcel of real estate under the ownership,
possession or control of a person or entity. If one entity or person has total
or partial ownership or possession of adjoining parcels, the combination of
such parcels will be considered one parcel of land. (Ord. 669, 7-28-2014)
5-5-2: REGULATION:
   A.   All bee colonies are to be kept in inspectible type hives with
removable combs, which shall be kept in a sound and usable condition.
   B.   No more than four (4) hives including any nucleus shall be kept on any
one parcel of land.
   C.   Each such nucleus colony shall be disposed of or combined with an
authorized colony within thirty (30) days after the date it is acquired.
   D.   Each apiary, hive, or nucleus shall be offset at minimum twenty feet
(20') from any street or alley.
   E.   All honeybee hives shall be registered with the Illinois department of
agriculture as required by state law.
   F.   Adequate techniques, such as requeening, in handling bees, and adequate
space in a hive shall be maintained to prevent unprovoked stinging ten feet
(10') or more from the hive.
   G.   The existence of a nest of wild bees of any type, not cultivated by any
person and whose honey is not harvested by any person, shall not constitute a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 669, 7-28-2014)
5-5-3: VIOLATION:
   A.   Notice And Penalty: If the violation is found to exist, the city may
issue a notice of violation, which is a warning which requires a reasonable
time limit for abatement, which shall not be less than fourteen (14) days after
the issuance of the notice of violation. The notice of violation shall be
written and shall be served by personal delivery or by certified mail to the
person's last known address, or the business address, or by posting upon the
property for ten (10) calendar days. Upon the failure to abate a violation
subsequent to the issuance of the notice of violation, the city may maintain a
complaint in circuit court in the name of the city, for ordinance violation to
be penalized under the general penalty ordinance, and/or to enjoin all persons
from maintaining or permitting the nuisance and to abate the same.
   B.   Removal Of Hive: All hives found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be removed and/or destroyed at the expense of the property owner. (Ord.
669, 7-28-2014)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Enforcement Of Traffic Violations
6-1-4: Fire Department Authority
6-1-5: Unnecessary Noise
6-1-6: Neighborhood Vehicles, Golf Carts, And Low Speed Vehicles
6-1-7: Engine Braking Systems
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The city hereby incorporates into this title all of the provisions of the
Illinois vehicle code located in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 et
seq., to the extent that said provisions are not specifically restricted,
altered or amended by any other ordinances of the city. At least one copy of
said Illinois motor vehicle code shall be on file for public inspection in the
office of the city clerk at all times, pursuant to the requirements of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 303, 1994; amd. 2000 Code)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions of words and phrases applicable to this traffic code shall be as
set out in the Illinois motor vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
101 et seq. (2000 Code)
6-1-3: ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department to
enforce all street traffic laws of the city and all of the vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the city;
   B.   Officers of the police department are hereby authorized to issue
citations for ordinance violations, including, but not limited to, vehicle and
traffic violations, to all offenders in a standard Illinois citation and
complaint form, or in the form attached to ordinance 303 on file in the office
of the city clerk and made a part hereof by reference thereto;
   C.   Said ordinance violation citation shall indicate to the offender the
nature of the charge and city ordinance or Illinois vehicle code section, the
place of the offense and the fine, and shall notify the offender that said fine
may be paid at the city hall, and that a failure to pay the amount of the fine
by the tenth weekday after issuance of the citation will result in the offer to
pay the fine being withdrawn and court action may thereafter be initiated by
the city attorney or state's attorney;
   D.   The police department shall collect all fines and remit same to the
city clerk and in the event the offender does not pay the fine by the tenth
weekday deadline, the matter shall be referred to the city attorney or state's
attorney for prosecution;
   E.   All fines shall be in the amount designated by the city council, and in
the absence of such designation shall be in the same amount as that charged for
violation of the same statutes in the circuit court of McLean County, Illinois,
on the date of violation, and in addition to such fine, in the event the city
files an action in McLean County circuit court, there will be assessed all
court costs incurred by the county and city in prosecuting the violation in
circuit court. (1964 Code § 176; amd. Ord. 303, 1994)
6-1-4: FIRE DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY:
The fire department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him,
may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing traffic
at the scene of any fire or where the fire department has responded to any
emergency call for so long as fire department equipment is on the scene, in the
absence of or in assisting the police. (1964 Code § 177)
6-1-5: UNNECESSARY NOISE:
No person shall drive any motor vehicle on any street, alley or public drive in
such a manner as to cause or produce unnecessary loud, excessive or unusual
noise by the racing of the motor, by lack of a muffler or use of a muffler
cutout, by tire friction upon rapid turning or weaving, by spinning of the
wheels from a standing or slow moving position by a sudden unnecessary motor
acceleration, or by continuous sounding of the horn or other signal device.
(1964 Code § 235; amd. Ord. 100, 1977)
6-1-6: NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS, AND LOW SPEED VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the term "neighborhood vehicle"
shall have the definition as currently set forth in section 11-1426.1 of the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1 and shall be
equipped with all safety systems and equipment as required by said statute.
Additionally, the term "golf cart" shall have the definition as currently set
forth in section 11-1426.1 and 1-123.9 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1 and 5/1-123.9. Further, the term "low
speed vehicle" shall have the definition as currently set forth in section 1-
140.7 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-140.7,
and shall be equipped with all safety systems and equipment as required by said
statute. To be operated on a roadway, neighborhood vehicles, golf carts, and
low speed vehicles must have at a minimum brakes, a steering apparatus, tires,
a rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a
slow moving emblem on the rear of the golf cart, a headlight that emits a white
light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a
taillamp that emits a red light visible at least one hundred feet (100') from
the rear, brake lights, turn signals, a windshield and any and all other safety
equipment required to be installed and operational on such vehicles as set
forth in section 11-1426.1 cited above. "All-terrain vehicles" (ATVs) as
defined in the Illinois vehicle code are not authorized on city streets and
alleys.
   B.   Operation: Subject to the requirements of sections 11-1426.1 of the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1 and section
1-140.7 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-140.7,
which are hereby adopted by the city, and to the provisions of this section,
drivers sixteen (16) years of age or older and properly licensed to operate
motor vehicles on the roadways of the city shall be authorized to operate
neighborhood vehicles, golf carts, and low speed vehicles on the roadways of
the city having a posted speed limit of thirty (30) miles per hour or less for
neighborhood vehicles and golf carts, and twenty five (25) miles per hour or
less for low speed vehicles. A neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf
cart meeting the definition under said section 11-1426.1 and section 1-140.7
shall be permitted to cross a state highway only at an intersection controlled
by a traffic light or a four-way stop sign and where the state highway has a
speed limit of thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less at the place of
crossing. Such vehicles shall not be allowed on city sidewalks.
   C.   Annual Registration: No neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf
cart shall be operated on any street or alley of the city unless the owner(s)
thereof shall have first registered such vehicle with the city in accordance
with the following:
      1.   Registration of neighborhood vehicles, low speed vehicles and golf
carts shall be administered by the chief of police, and his designees, and
applications for registration shall be made on a form prescribed by the city,
said form to include a statement under oath or penalties of perjury that the
neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf cart proposed to be registered
meets the definition under this section and shall be accompanied by an annual
registration fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) and proof of liability
insurance for said vehicles having at least the same limits as required from
time to time for motor vehicles under the mandatory insurance law of the state
of Illinois.
      2.   Registered neighborhood vehicles and golf carts shall be issued a
registration sticker which shall be affixed to the driver's side of the vehicle
below the seat by an authorized agent of the City of Chenoa. Once the sticker
is issued by the city, the application of said registration sticker shall be
done by a city employee at City Hall and will be done so in a manner that
allows the sticker to be easily seen by code enforcement officials.
      3.   Registrations shall be effective from the date issued and will
expire on April 30 of either the current year, if issued between January 1 and
April 30, or the following year if issued between May 1 and December 31. All
registration fees will be prorated in the amount of three dollars ($3.00) per
month without regard to when during the month such registration is tendered and
shall be renewed annually in the same manner as the original registration as
set forth in this subsection (C). On May 1, all current registration holders
will be required to pay the annual registration fee as set forth in subsection
(C)1.
      4.   Registrations shall not be transferable in the event of change of
ownership.
      5.   Registrations shall be subject to revocation by the chief of police
in the event of a violation of the requirements of section 11-1426.1 of the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1, or any of
the provisions of this section. A revocation shall be made in writing and shall
set forth the provision(s) of statute or ordinance found to be violated.
Revocations may be appealed in writing to the city council fourteen (14) days
from the issuance of the revocation, and if appealed the city council shall
hold a public hearing at which the affected owner may appear, present witnesses
and evidence, and be represented by an attorney. The city council shall uphold
the revocation if it determines by a preponderance of the evidence presented at
the hearing that the violation which was the basis for the revocation occurred.
During the appeal process, the revocation shall remain in full force and
effect.
      6.   In the event a registration is revoked due to a failure to maintain
the required liability insurance or a failure to maintain the condition of the
neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf cart in compliance with this
section, including, but not limited to, maintaining the required safety
systems, the chief of police, in his discretion, may reinstate the registration
upon documentation of reinstatement of the required insurance or of the repair
or modification of the neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf cart
necessary to cure any deficiencies, as applicable, if the chief of police
determines that the violation was not intentional and is not likely to recur.
   D.   Inspection: Neighborhood vehicles, low speed vehicles and golf carts
registered, or proposed to be registered, pursuant to this section shall be
subject to inspection by the chief of police, or his designees, at any time to
determine that said vehicle meets, and continues to meet, the definition
thereof as set forth in this section, particularly the provisions for
maintenance in operating condition of required safety systems and equipment.
   E.   Mandatory Insurance: The owner of any neighborhood vehicle, low speed
vehicle or golf cart registered under this section shall continuously maintain
liability insurance for said vehicle having at least the same limits as
required from time to time for motor vehicles under the mandatory insurance law
of the state of Illinois.
   F.   Operation Limited To Licensed Drivers: No person under the age of
sixteen (16) years or who is not properly licensed to operate motor vehicles on
the roadways of the City shall operate a neighborhood vehicle, low speed
vehicle or golf cart within the City, and the provisions of section 6-107 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-107 providing for
graduated licenses for young drivers shall be fully applicable to the operation
of such vehicles, particularly those provisions under 6-107(h) relating to
passenger occupancy restrictions.
   G.   Other Laws, Regulation And Ordinances: Neighborhood vehicles, low speed
vehicles and golf carts shall be operated at all times in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, the rules of the road contained
therein, and any other laws, regulations or ordinances governing the operation
of motor vehicles in the city, as well as any laws, regulations or ordinances
specifically pertaining to neighborhood vehicles, low speed vehicles or golf
carts and the operation thereof.
   H.   Use Under The Influence Of Alcohol: A person shall not drive or be in
actual physical control of a neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf
cart within the city limits of the city of Chenoa while the alcohol
concentration in the person's blood or breath is 0.02 or more based on the
definition of blood and breath units as set forth in the Illinois vehicle code.
Violations of the provisions of this section shall be cause for the city to
revoke the permit of the authorized user thereof.
   I.   Convictions: Two (2) convictions of any authorized user herein of a
neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf cart of a moving violation
concerning any such vehicles shall cause the registration herein to be
permanently terminated.
   J.   Operating a neighborhood vehicle, low speed vehicle or golf cart
without the proper registration and affixed sticker as set forth in this
section shall result in a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). Such fine will be
forfeited by the city only if the owner of the vehicle properly registers the
vehicle or golf cart with the city within twenty one (21) days of receiving a
citation. Violations of all other provisions of this section involving both
convictions and violations shall remain in full force and effect including
revocation and permanent termination of registration. The provisions hereof for
prosecuting violations of this section are not intended to supersede the
Illinois vehicle code, or in any way impair prosecution of violations of the
Illinois vehicle code involving the operation of neighborhood vehicles, low
speed vehicles or golf carts. (Ord. 644, 11-12-2013; amd. Ord. 792, 7-14-2020;
Ord. 815, 4-27-2021)
6-1-7: ENGINE BRAKING SYSTEMS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for vehicles to employ engine braking systems
within the city of Chenoa. Signs meeting the specifications of the state of
Illinois department of transportation standards shall be posted in the
following locations, and the prohibition shall be in effect between the signs
on the respective routes:
      East of Chenoa on Route 24 between "Speed Zone Ahead" and "Speed Limit
45" signs.
      North of Route 24 on Old Route 55 between "Speed Zone Ahead" and "Speed
Limit 45" signs.
      South of Route 24 on Old Route 55 between "Speed Zone Ahead" and "Speed
Limit 45" signs.
      West of Chenoa on Route 24 between "Speed Zone Ahead" and "Speed Limit
45" signs.
   B.   Violation of this section shall subject the violator to a fine pursuant
to the general penalty ordinance of the city of Chenoa, with the exception that
it shall not be less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a first violation.
(Ord. 479, 6-28-2004)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS AND SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Speed Limits
6-2-2: Stop Intersections
6-2-3: One-Way Streets
6-2-4: Loading Zones
6-2-5: Traffic In School Zones
6-2-1: SPEED LIMITS:
It is unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street in the city at a speed
greater than the limit provided by state statute or greater than such lesser
limit as may be prescribed in this section, as amended from time to time by the
city council. (Ord. 199, 1984)
   A.   Twenty Five Miles Per Hour Limitations: The following are designated as
areas in which a twenty five (25) mile per hour speed limit shall be enforced:
      Fuller Avenue from Mason Street to Division Street.
      Lincoln Street from Veto Street to Ninth Avenue.
      Maple Street from Cemetery Avenue to Fuller Avenue.
      Mason Street from Cemetery Avenue to Fuller Avenue.
      Sunset Street from U.S. Route 66 to Silliman Lake.
      Second Avenue from Cemetery Avenue north to the city limits (County Line
Road).
      Third Avenue from North Commercial Street north to Second Avenue.
   B.   Fifteen Miles Per Hour Limitations: The following are designated as
areas in which a fifteen (15) mile per hour speed limit shall be enforced:
      Green Street from Cemetery Avenue to Veto Street.
      Owsley Street from Division Street to Veto Street.
      Veto Street from Cemetery Avenue to Division Street.
(Ord. 355, 7-14-1997)
   C.   Twenty Miles Per Hour Limitations: The following are designated as
areas in which a twenty (20) mile per hour speed limit shall be enforced:
      Illinois Street from Second Avenue to Third Avenue.
      Morehead Street between Scott Street and old Route 55.
      Owsley Street from Division Street to Second Avenue.
      South Fifth Avenue between Cemetery Avenue and Lincoln Street.
      Third Avenue from Illinois Street to Hamilton Street.
(Ord. 438, 12-10-2001; amd. Ord. 480, 7-12-2004; Ord. 493, 5-9-2005)
   D.   Ten Miles Per Hour Limitations: The following are designated as areas
in which a ten (10) mile per hour speed limit shall be enforced:
      West Scott Street as it passes by and through Redbird Park, west of
Morehead Street.
(Ord. 492, 5-9-2005)
6-2-2: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Two-Way Stop Intersections: It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle
into the intersections of the following named streets without first bringing
such vehicle to a full stop:
CEMETERY AVENUE
 Deborah Lane (northbound)
 Division
 Gerrard
 Grant
 Green
 Maple
 Mason
 McClellan
 Morehead
 Pickett
 Sheridan
 Veto
 Weir
 First
 Second
 Third
 Fourth
 Fifth
 Sixth
 Seventh
COMMERCIAL
 First
DIVISION STREET
 Boles
 Davis
 Emma
 Fuller
 Hamilton
 Lincoln
 Logan
 Main
 Mill
 N. Commercial
 Owsley
 Sherman
 Veto
GERRARD
 Franklin
GRANT
 Fuller
GREEN STREET
 Lincoln
HAMILTON STREET
 First Avenue (both northbound and southbound)
KENTUCKY STREET
 Northbound and southbound alleys in blocks 3 and 6 in Pierce's addition to
  the city, being the north-south alleys between Spruce Street and Mason Street
LINCOLN STREET
 Weir
 S. Third
 Fourth
LOGAN STREET
 Sheridan Street (both northbound and southbound)
MAIN STREET
 First Avenue (both northbound and southbound)
MAPLE
 Kentucky
 Logan
MASON
 Kentucky
MCCLELLAN STREET
 Emma Street (eastbound and westbound)
MOREHEAD
 Ash
 Crittenden
 Franklin
 Scott
NORTH STREET
 Third Avenue
OWSLEY
 Ash
 Weir
PICKETT STREET
 Owsley Street (westbound)
ROUTE 66
 Division
 Morehead
 Sunset
SHERIDAN STREET
 Davis (both eastbound and westbound)
 Emma (both eastbound and westbound)
 Kentucky Street (both eastbound and westbound)
VETO STREET
 Mill
SECOND AVENUE
 Mill Street (both eastbound and westbound)
 N. Commercial
 Owsley
 Warren
 York (westbound)
FOURTH AVENUE
 Warren Street (both eastbound and westbound)
FIFTH AVENUE
 Lincoln
 Warren Street (both eastbound and westbound)
 
   B.   Three-Way Stop Intersections:
NORTH SECOND AND YORK
 Traffic going westbound on York and northbound and southbound on North Second
SECOND AVENUE AND NORTH STREET
 North Street (westbound) stops for Second Avenue
 Second Avenue stops for North Street
WARREN STREET AND NINTH AVENUE
 
   C.   Four-Way Stop Intersections:
      Division Street and Fuller Street
      Fuller Street and Sheridan Street
      Grant Street and Logan Street
      Lincoln and Second Avenue
      Lincoln and Third Avenue
      Logan Street and Maple Street
      Logan Street and Mason Street
      Main Street and Second Avenue
      North Second and Hamilton
      Owsley and Morehead
      Veto and Owsley
      Third Avenue and Warren Street
   D.   Yield Intersections:
      Fuller Street (eastbound and westbound) yields at McClellan Street
      Gerrard Street (northbound and southbound) yields at Crittenden Street
      Third Avenue (northbound) yields at Second Avenue
   Warren yields eastbound at Seventh
(Ord. 354, 7-14-1997; amd. Ord. 361, 11-24-1997; Ord. 372, 9-28-1998; 2000
Code; Ord. 428, 6-25-2001; Ord. 438, 12-10-2001; Ord. 440, 4-22-2002; Ord. 456,
5-12-2003; Ord. 459, 6-23-2003; Ord. 462, 7-14-2003; Ord. 482, 8-23-2004; Ord.
513, 9-25-2006; Ord. 514, 9-25-2006; Ord. 535, 7-9-2007; Ord. 537, 8-27-2007;
Ord. 539, 10-8-2007; Ord. 554, 9-8-2008; Ord. 565, 4-13-2009; Ord. 575, 10-12-
2009; Ord. 656, 4-28-2014; Ord. 659, 5-27-2014; Ord. 670, 8-25-2014; Ord. 804,
10-27-2020)
6-2-3: ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following are hereby designated as one-way streets, and the chief of police
or other person designated by the mayor and city council shall post or cause to
be posted suitable signs for the street and access thereto:
 
Fuller Street East from Mason Street to Maple Street
             Westbound between Mason Street and Division Street
Fourth Avenue Lincoln Street to Cemetery Avenue, with travel from north to
              south thereon
 
(Ord. 90, 1975; amd. Ord. 141, 1980; Ord. 512, 8-14-2006; Ord. 520, 2-26-2007)
6-2-4: LOADING ZONES:
During the times specified in this section, it is unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3)
minutes, and for the driver to stand any freight carrying vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any of the following places:
   A.   In any public alley, during any hour of the day or night;
   B.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   C.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on Sunday;
   D.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business. (1964 Code § 231)
6-2-5: TRAFFIC IN SCHOOL ZONES:
Fuller Street between Maple Street and Division Street shall become a two-way
street, but shall be closed to westbound vehicular traffic, as appropriate when
children are scheduled to be present and when the Chenoa Elementary School
crossing guard is on duty.
The school crossing guard is authorized to place appropriate barricades closing
the traffic during those periods. (Ord. 538, 9-24-2007; amd. Ord. 541, 11-13-
2007)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Parking In Alleys
6-3-2: Truck And Tractor Parking Restrictions
6-3-3: Specific Parking Restrictions
6-3-4: Parking During Snow Removal
6-3-5: Prohibited Parking
6-3-6: Parking Violations, Fines
6-3-1: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1964 Code § 232)
6-3-2: TRUCK AND TRACTOR PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Entire City: It is unlawful to park or stand any truck tractor or
semitrailer on any street of the city for a period longer than three (3) hours
except while in the process of loading and unloading, but under no
circumstances for a longer period than five (5) hours.
   B.   Residence Districts: It is unlawful to park or stand any truck of a
size larger than one ton on any street of the city within a residential area
for a period longer than three (3) hours except while in the process of loading
and unloading, but under no circumstances for a longer period than five (5)
hours. For purposes of this section, a residential area shall be deemed to be
any area zoned as a residential district under the zoning code of the city 1 .
(Ord. 240, 1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
6-3-3: SPECIFIC PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking Prohibited:
      1.   U.S. Route 24: In order to promote the health, safety and welfare of
its citizens, parking will be prohibited on both sides of U.S. Route 24
(Cemetery Street) throughout the city, between the city's east and west
corporate limits. Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for each offense. The city will enact further ordinances
requiring parking restrictions at locations immediately adjacent to the
improvement as may be determined to be necessary by the state from results of
traffic capacity studies when construction on the above described state section
has been completed and the highway has resumed normal operations. (Ord. 298,
1994)
      2.   Hoselton Drive And Enterprise Drive: Motor vehicles shall not be
parked on Hoselton Drive or on Enterprise Drive, except that part of Enterprise
Drive which has not been dedicated to the public, within the city. Any person
who violates any of the provisions of this subsection shall be subject to a
fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each and every day during which said
person is in violation of this subsection. (Ord. 344, 12-23-1996)
      3.   Mason Street, West Side: Motor vehicles shall not be parked on the
west side of Mason Street in the city of Chenoa for a distance of fifty feet
(50') south of the intersection of said street and U.S. Route 24 (Cemetery
Avenue). Any person who violates any of the provisions of this subsection shall
be subject to a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each and every day
during which said person is in violation of this subsection. (Ord. 396, 2-14-
2000)
   B.   Two Hour Parking:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for more than two (2)
consecutive hours on the west side of First Avenue at 227 North First Avenue,
along the entire lot frontage of lots 3, 4, 5 and the south 1/2 of lot 2, block
5 in east Chenoa, now city of Chenoa. Violators hereof shall be subject to
section
1-4-1 of this code, and every day that a violation continues will be deemed a
separate violation thereof. (Ord. 485, 9-13-2004)
   C.   Parking At U.S. Post Office:
      1.   Two (2) parking spaces near the U.S. post office, as designated by
signs, shall be restricted to use by post office patrons only. (Ord. 672, 9-22-
2014)
6-3-4: PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   Specific Streets: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the
following streets between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. at such times between November 1 of any year through March 31 of
the following year, during which snow is falling, and at all times thereafter
until snow removal operations are completed at the cessation of snowfall.
During such time temporary parking will be permitted for no longer than three
(3) minutes for loading or unloading of passengers.
 
Street        Side       Direction
Green Street  Both sides Between Lincoln Street on the south and Owsley Street
                         on the north
             West side  From Route 24 on the south to Lincoln Street on the
                         north
Owsley Street Both sides From Morehead Street on the west to Division Street on
                         the east
Veto Street   Both sides Between Lincoln Street on the south and the TP&W
                         Railroad right of way on the north
 
and on any other streets which the city council may designate herein from time
to time by ordinance.
   B.   Exceptions To Restrictions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any ambulance or to any emergency vehicle of any governmental agency
nor to the vehicles of any public utility while the operation of such vehicle
is engaged in the necessary performance of emergency duties. Provided further,
that this section shall not apply to any vehicle brought to a stop to avoid
collision or standing in compliance with the order of any police officer or the
direction of any traffic direction control signal.
   C.   Removal Of Vehicle: Members of the police department are authorized to
remove any vehicle in violation of this section from any public way to an
authorized parking area as determined and designated by the mayor at expense of
the owner or operator of the vehicle. (Ord. 474, 3-8-2004)
6-3-5: PROHIBITED PARKING:
   A.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful to:
      1.   Vehicle For Sale: Park or permit any vehicle to be parked upon any
street in the city for more than twenty four (24) hours for the business of
displaying the same for sale.
      2.   Peddling From Vehicle: Park any vehicle upon any business street
from which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (1964 Code § 229)
      3.   Unregistered Vehicles: Permit any vehicle to stand on any public
street or alley in the city for more than twenty four (24) hours at any one
time unless such vehicle is registered in accordance with the statutes of the
state. (1964 Code § 228)
   B.   Towing, Costs: Any vehicle found parked more than twenty four (24)
hours upon the streets or alleys of the city, in violation of this section, may
be towed away by the police department and stored either in a private parking
garage or lot, or upon city property, and the charges of towing and storage
thereof shall be charged to the owner of the vehicle. Such charges must be paid
prior to the vehicle being released by the towing and/or storage operators to
the owner of the vehicle. (1964 Code § 230; amd. 2000 Code)
6-3-6: PARKING VIOLATIONS, FINES:
The city police are authorized to issue citations for violations of this
chapter by placing a notice of citation on any vehicle in violation hereof. The
registered owner of such vehicle shall be deemed to be the person in violation
of this chapter. Any such person shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00) for each and every day said violation is committed or continued unless
otherwise specified in this chapter. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Snowmobile Route
6-4-3: Registration
6-4-4: Control Provisions
6-4-5: Enforcement And Inspection
6-4-6: Application And Jurisdiction
6-4-7: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases used herein shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them under the Illinois snowmobile
registration and safety act, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1-1 et seq., as
thereafter amended. (Ord. 452, 1-28-2002)
6-4-2: SNOWMOBILE ROUTE:
It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile within the city limits of the city
of Chenoa, except upon the property owned by or upon which the owner has given
express permission to operation to the designated in a map of the city of
Chenoa entitled "snowmobile route", attached to and made part of the ordinance
codified herein, which delineates certain highways as permissible for
snowmobile traffic within said city limits, or upon any highways which afford
the most direct or safest course to the snowmobile route to or from the
residence of the owner or place of storage of the snowmobile. (Ord. 452, 1-28-
2002)
6-4-3: REGISTRATION:
All snowmobiles must be registered by the city of Chenoa, before operating a
snowmobile on the snowmobile route within Chenoa city limits. (Ord. 452, 1-28-
2002)
6-4-4: CONTROL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Speed Regulations: No snowmobile may be driven upon any roadway or
route of this community at a speed which is greater than reasonable and proper
with regard to traffic conditions or which endangers the safety of any person
or property. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle.
   B.   Speed Limits: Unless other speed restriction may be established by the
posting of speed limit signs under the authority of the city council, the
maximum speed limits are as follows:
      1.   Twenty (20) mph on any city street.
      2.   Fifteen (15) mph on any city alley.
   C.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any snowmobile with a wilful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving.
   D.   Racing: No person shall engage in any race on any street or alley
within the corporate limits. "Race" means the act of two (2) or more
individuals competing either by acceleration or from passing or overtaking
another individual in competing for time or position.
   E.   Operation: Snowmobiles shall be operated on all designated trails in
the city limits as close as possible to the right hand side of the roadway.
   F.   Following Vehicles: The operator shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is prudent with regard to the speed of such vehicles and the
traffic upon and the conditions of the roadway.
   G.   Turn Signals: Signals of intention to turn right or left when required
must be given during the last one hundred feet (100') of travel when the
snowmobile is traveling on any highway within the municipality.
   H.   Right Of Way: Any snowmobile approaching an intersection shall yield
right of way. The snowmobile operator shall yield at all times and may proceed
at such time as a safe interval occurs.
   I.   Stop Signs: Snowmobiles shall obey all stop signs. The snowmobile
should stop at the point nearest the intersecting street as to afford the
operator a clear view of approaching traffic.
   J.   Accidents: Any operator involved in any accident with another
snowmobile or other motor vehicle or pedestrian shall make accident reports in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois state snowmobile registration
act, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/6-1.
   K.   Controlled Substances: No person under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or narcotic drugs may be in actual physical control of any snowmobile
within this municipality.
   L.   Liquor: No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor while operating a
snowmobile and any liquor transported shall be in its original package with
seal unbroken.
   M.   Operating On Highway: No person shall operate a snowmobile on any
highway of the state, except to cross said state highway at a ninety degree
(90°) angle yielding to all traffic and crossing only when safe to do so.
   N.   Riding On Railroad: Riding along the railroad right of way is
prohibited.
   O.   Curfew: Curfew for snowmobiles shall be nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday
through Thursday and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.
   P.   Youthful Operators: No persons under ten (10) years of age may operate
a snowmobile. Persons at least ten (10) and less than twelve (12) years of age
may operate a snowmobile only if they are either accompanied on the snowmobile
by a parent or guardian or a person at least eighteen (18) years of age
designated by a parent or guardian. Persons at least twelve (12) and less than
sixteen (16) years of age may operate a snowmobile only if they are either
accompanied on the snowmobile by a parent or guardian or a person at least
sixteen (16) years of age designated by a parent or guardian, or such operator
is in possession of a certificate issued by the department authorizing the
holder to operate snowmobiles. (Ord. 452, 1-28-2002)
6-4-5: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION:
   A.   It is the duty of police officers to arrest any person detected in
violation of any provisions in this chapter.
   B.   Duly authorized police officers may stop and inspect any snowmobile at
any time for the purpose of determining if the provisions of this chapter are
being complied with. Every snowmobile upon being hailed by an officer of law
enforcement must stop immediately.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any peace officer
in discharging his duties under this chapter. (Ord. 452, 1-28-2002)
6-4-6: APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION:
No portion of this chapter shall preclude the state of Illinois or its officers
or agents from enforcing the Illinois snowmobile registration and safety act
under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1-1 through 40/11-1 inclusive. (Ord.
452, 1-28-2002)
6-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the
mandatory requirements of this chapter shall be punished by a fine pursuant to
the Chenoa general penalty ordinance. Each such person is guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of any
provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by any such
person, and he is punishable accordingly. (Ord. 452, 1-28-2002)
CHAPTER 5
JUNK VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Short Title
6-5-2: Purpose
6-5-3: Definition
6-5-4: Regulations
6-5-5: Nuisance Declared
6-5-6: Enforcement Procedures
6-5-7: Penalty
6-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY OF CHENOA JUNK VEHICLE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 472, 1-12-2004)
6-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to limit and restrict the outdoor storage,
parking or unreasonable accumulation of junk, unused, partially dismantled or
nonoperating motor vehicles, motorcycles, boats, house trailers, or tractor
trailers or new or used parts thereof upon premises within the city of Chenoa;
to thereby avoid injury and hazards to children and others attracted to such
vehicles or trailers, and the devaluation of property values and the ill effect
of the presence of such vehicles or trailers upon adjoining residents and
residential property owners. (Ord. 472, 1-12-2004)
6-5-3: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term "responsible party or person" means any
individual, business, or entity responsible for creating, causing, maintaining
or permitting the nuisance activity, premises, condition or conduct encompassed
by the terms of this chapter; and includes, but is not limited to, the real or
personal property owner, tenant, lessee, possessor, or occupant of real
property, the president or other officer of the corporation, a business owner
or manager of a business. (Ord. 472, 1-12-2004)
6-5-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   No responsible party or person shall park, store, or place upon any
public right of way or public property, or upon any private premises within the
city of Chenoa, any motor vehicle, motorcycle, boat, house trailer, or tractor
trailer or new or used parts of junk therefrom, unless the same is wholly
contained within a fully enclosed building and does not violate any zoning or
building laws of the city of Chenoa, county of McLean, or state of Illinois,
except for the following:
      1.   Duly licensed and operable vehicles or trailers with substantially
all main component parts attached.
      2.   Vehicles or trailers that are temporarily inoperable, because of
minor mechanical failure, but which are not, in any manner, dismantled and have
substantially all main component parts attached, which may remain upon such
private property for a period not to exceed seven (7) days.
   B.   No repairing, redesigning, modifying or dismantling work or operations
shall be allowed upon any vehicle or trailer or parts thereof upon any public
right of way or public property or on any private property for a period in
excess of twenty four (24) hours except:
      1.   Such as shall be accomplished within fully enclosed buildings;
      2.   Such as will not constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining
property owners or occupants; and
      3.   Such as does not violate any provision of the zoning ordinance of
the city of Chenoa, Illinois.
Any such work within such twenty four (24) hour period heretofore allowed shall
not, however, consist of any major repair, redesigning, modifying or
dismantling work, but only such occasional minor work as may frequently be
required to maintain a vehicle or trailer or parts thereof in normal operating
condition. Nothing herein contained shall be constructed to permit the parking
and/or repair or maintenance on said vehicles in any front yard or side yard.
   C.   In the event the foregoing regulations create any special or peculiar
hardship beyond the control of the particular violator thereof because of
unforeseen circumstances, the city of Chenoa is hereby given the authority to
grant permission to any applicant to operate contrary to the provisions hereof
for a limited period of time not to exceed seven (7) days provided no adjoining
property owner or occupant is unreasonably, adversely affected thereby and the
spirit and purpose of this chapter are still substantially observed. (Ord. 472,
1-12-2004)
6-5-5: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any parking, storage, placement, or operation in violation of the provisions of
this chapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance which may be enjoined
or which may subject the violator to the fines and penalties herein provided
for. (Ord. 472, 1-12-2004)
6-5-6: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Compliance Officer Designated: All sworn police officers of the city of
Chenoa, Illinois, and/or any other city official specifically named by the city
council to enforce the provisions of this chapter, be and are hereby designed
as compliance officers for the purpose of enforcing the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Compliance Order; Contents: Whenever a compliance officer determines
that any property is maintained in violation of one or more of the provisions
of this chapter, he or she shall serve on one or more of the responsible
parties a written compliance order in substantial conformance with exhibit A
attached to ordinance 472, which contains:
      1.   The date and location of the violation;
      2.   The section of the code violated and a brief description of the
violation;
      3.   The actions required to correct the violation(s) or abate the
condition(s);
      4.   The time period after which the city will commence an ordinance
violation action if compliance is not achieved;
      5.   The time period for abatement shall be at least seven (7) days,
unless it is determined by the compliance officer that the conditions
constitute an imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare or is a
flagrant violation of the terms of this chapter. The compliance officer may
grant an extension of the time upon good cause, provided the responsible party
signs a written agreement to abate the nuisance within a time certain.
      6.   That an ordinance violation action will be filed charging the
responsible party or parties with a violation of the terms of this chapter if
abatement is not achieved within the time set forth in the compliance order.
   C.   Issuance Of Compliance Order: Such notice shall be given by personal
service or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
residence or usual place of business of such responsible party. Proof of the
notice so mailed or affidavit of the party personally serving the notice, shall
be proof of issuance of the notice.
   D.   Violation: If the responsible party or parties fail to abate the
conditions set forth in the compliance order issued by the compliance officer,
the city shall have the option to take the following actions:
      1.   If the vehicles or equipment are on private property, the city may
file in circuit court an ordinance violation complaint charging the responsible
party with violation of the terms of this chapter.
      2.   If the vehicles or equipment are on public property or right of way,
the city may remove or contract to have removed, without further notice, such
vehicles and other materials from the premises at the expense of the
responsible party. (Ord. 472, 1-12-2004)
6-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who is convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation and
shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the general penalty ordinance of
the city of Chenoa. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. The city shall have the power to remove or
contract to have removed such vehicles and other materials from the premises,
at the expense of the responsible party. (Ord. 472, 1-12-2004)
CHAPTER 6
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Vehicles Subject To Seizure And Impounding
6-6-3: Seizure And Impoundment
6-6-4: Exceptions
6-6-5: Posting Of Bond
6-6-6: Preliminary Hearing
6-6-7: Owner's Hearing
6-6-8: Unclaimed Vehicles
6-6-9: Liability For Penalty And Costs
6-6-10: Hearing Officer
6-6-11: Decision Review
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance as defined and included in the schedule
contained in article II of the Illinois controlled substance act 1  and
cannabis as defined in section 1 of the cannabis control act 2 .
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE: Any violation as defined in section 11-501 of the
Illinois vehicle code 3 .
DRIVING WHILE LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
SUSPENDED OR REVOKED: Any violation as defined in section 6-303 of the Illinois
vehicle code 4 .
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any equipment, product, and/or materials as defined in
section 2 of the drug paraphernalia act 5 .
HEARING OFFICER: A licensed attorney who is not an officer or employee of the
city.
OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT A VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE: A violation of
section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended from time to time 6 .
OWNER OF RECORD: The record title holder to a motor vehicle as registered with
the secretary of state, state of Illinois.
UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS: A violation of section 24-1 of the criminal code of
1961 7 . (Ord. 631, 1-14-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 570.
2 2. 720 ILCS 550 et seq.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
4 4. 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
5 5. 720 ILCS 600/2.
6 6. 625 ILCS 5/6-101.
7 1. 720 ILCS 5/24-1.
6-6-2: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING:
A motor vehicle shall be subject to seizure and impoundment under this chapter
where such motor vehicle is used in any of the following:
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 1961;
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code;
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act;
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act;
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the criminal code of 1961;
   F.   Driving while a driver's license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the Illinois
vehicle code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing;
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act;
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, if the period of
expiration is greater than one year;
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
vehicle code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age;
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303 or 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle
code;
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the criminal
code of 1961;
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
criminal code of 1961, when so provided by local ordinance. (Ord. 631, 1-14-
2013)
6-6-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a vehicle is subject to
seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer shall
cause the motor vehicle to be towed to a facility authorized by the city. When
the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall make a reasonable attempt to
notify any person identifying himself or herself as the owner of the vehicle or
any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of
the vehicle owner's right to request a preliminary hearing as provided in this
chapter and that the vehicle will remain impounded unless a bond is posted
pursuant to this chapter or a decision is made that the vehicle is not subject
to impoundment. (Ord. 631, 1-14-2013)
6-6-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this section shall not apply if at the time of the offense,
the vehicle was found to have been stolen and the theft was reported to the
appropriate police authority within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was,
or reasonably should have been discovered, or if the vehicle is a common
carrier, i.e., a taxi carrying paying passengers or bus. (Ord. 631, 1-14-2013)
6-6-5: POSTING OF BOND:
If a bond in the amount of four hundred dollars ($400.00) is posted with the
city, the impounded vehicle will be released to the owner of record, upon the
payment by the owner of record of the towing and storage costs. If a penalty is
imposed for a violation of this chapter, the bond will be forfeited to the
city; provided, in the event that a violation of this chapter is not proven,
the bond will be returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted
pursuant to this chapter will be held by the city until the deadline to request
a hearing has expired, the hearing officer issues a decision, or, if there is a
judicial review, until the court issues its final decision. (Ord. 631, 1-14-
2013)
6-6-6: PRELIMINARY HEARING:
Where the owner of a motor vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter
requests a preliminary hearing within twelve (12) hours after the seizure of
the motor vehicle, a city official must conduct a preliminary hearing within
seventy two (72) business hours after the request for preliminary hearing is
received by the city, not including Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays. For
purposes of this section, the following shall apply:
   A.   All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing.
   B.   The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay
testimony will be allowed, and will be admissible.
   C.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the city official determines
that there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used as
hereinabove provided in section
6-6-2 of this chapter, the city official shall order the continued impoundment
of the vehicle, unless the owner of the vehicle posts a cash bond with the city
in the amount of four hundred dollars ($400.00), plus the towing and storage
costs.
   D.   If the city official determines that there is not probable cause to
believe that the vehicle was used as hereinabove provided in section
6-6-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle will be returned to the owner of
record of the vehicle without any penalty or other costs, other than the towing
and storage fees. (Ord. 631, 1-14-2013)
6-6-7: OWNER'S HEARING:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: Unless the owner has waived notice, within ten (10)
days of the vehicle's impoundment, the city shall notify the owner of record of
the motor vehicle by first class mail, postage prepaid, of his/her right to a
full hearing before a hearing officer to determine whether the subject vehicle
is eligible for impoundment; and that, in the event that the owner of record
would like a hearing, he/she must file a request for such hearing in writing
with the city of Chenoa police department at 201 Green Street, Chenoa,
Illinois, within fifteen (15) days of the posted date of the notice. If a
written request is not received within fifteen (15) days of mailing the notice,
then the owner is defaulted and the impoundment fee will be kept by the city or
if no fee posted, then the vehicle can be sold as abandoned thirty (30) days
after the default.
   B.   Notification: In the event a hearing is requested, the city shall
notify the owner of record of the motor vehicle by first class mail, postage
prepaid, of the date, time, and location of the hearing. If known to the city,
the city shall also notify any lessees or lienholders of the date, time, and
location of the hearing by first class mail.
   C.   Hearing: For purposes of this section, the following shall apply to the
owner's hearing:
      1.   Unless continued by order of the hearing officer, the hearing shall
be held within thirty (30) days after a request for hearing is received by the
city of Chenoa police department.
      2.   All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the owner's hearing.
      3.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer
determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used as
hereinabove provided in section
6-6-2 of this chapter, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision
ordering the continued impoundment of the vehicle until the owner of the
vehicle pays to the city a penalty in the amount of four hundred dollars
($400.00), plus the towing and storage costs. The penalty shall be a debt due
to the city.
      4.   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing
officer shall enter a written order of default in favor of the city, which
order shall require the payment to the city of an administrative penalty of
four hundred dollars ($400.00).
      5.   If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was not used as
hereinabove provided in section
6-6-2 of this chapter, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision so
stating and the motor vehicle will be returned to the owner of record of the
vehicle without any penalty or other costs, other than the cost of towing and
storage; and, if a cash bond had previously been posted, the cash bond shall be
returned. (Ord. 631, 1-14-2013)
6-6-8: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
If the administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees are not
paid within thirty (30) days after the expiration of time in which
administrative review of the hearing officer's determination may be sought, or
within thirty (30) days after an action seeking administrative review has been
resolved in favor of the city, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be
deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 631,
1-14-2013)
6-6-9: LIABILITY FOR PENALTY AND COSTS:
   A.   The owner of record of a motor vehicle that is seized or impounded
shall be liable to the city for a penalty of four hundred dollars ($400.00) in
addition to any fees for the towing and storage of the motor vehicle.
   B.   Fees for towing and storage are established by the towing company, and
not by the city.
   C.   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded
until the earlier of the following to occur:
      1.   The penalty is paid to the city, and all towing and storage costs
are paid to the towing company; and
      2.   A bond in an amount equal to the liability of the owner as herein
provided in subsection A of this section is posted with the city and all
applicable towing and storage costs are paid to the towing company; and
      3.   The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned or
unclaimed vehicles.
      4.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner,
lienholder, or any other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of
a motor vehicle impounded under this chapter until the penalty and all towing
and storage costs applicable under this chapter have been paid in full.
      5.   Whenever a person or other entity with a lien of record against an
impounded vehicle has proof of commenced foreclosure or repossession
proceedings, and also provides the city with a hold harmless letter, possession
of the vehicle shall be given to that lienholder upon payment of bond and all
towing and storage costs. (Ord. 631, 1-14-2013)
6-6-10: HEARING OFFICER:
The hearing officer shall be appointed by the mayor. The hearing officer shall
be an attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois for a minimum
of three (3) years next preceding the date of his appointment. (Ord. 631, 1-14-
2013)
6-6-11: DECISION REVIEW:
Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the hearing officer may appeal that
decision pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois administrative review act 1
. (Ord. 631, 1-14-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Enforcement Authority
7-1-2: Construction And Repair
7-1-3: Specifications For Construction Or Repair
7-1-4: Barricades
7-1-5: Driveways
7-1-6: Encroachments And Obstructions
7-1-7: Political And Commercial Signs
7-1-8: Fill And Other Materials Regulations
7-1-9: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
7-1-10: Preservation Of Green Spaces
7-1-1: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the city shall
be under the supervision of the commissioner of streets and public
improvements. He shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance
provisions relating to such public places, except traffic ordinances 1 , and is
authorized to enforce such ordinances. (1964 Code § 85; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 6-1-3 of this code wherein the police department is charged with the
  enforcement of traffic ordinances.
7-1-2: CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
   A.   Pavement Construction:
      1.   Permits Required: It is unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on
any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same
without first having secured a permit therefor.
      2.   Application And Fee: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the city clerk, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or
repair, the extent thereof and the person who is to do the actual construction
work. No such permits shall be issued except on order of the city council. The
fee for all such permits shall be one dollar ($1.00). (1964 Code § 86)
   B.   Excavations:
      1.   Permits Required: It is unlawful to make any excavation in or tunnel
under any public street, alley or sidewalk or other public place in the city,
without having first obtained a permit therefor. The provisions of this section
shall apply to all such excavations in the city not specifically provided for
in other sections of this code.
      2.   Application: Application for such permit shall be made to the city
clerk and shall specify the intended location and the purpose of the
excavation.
      3.   Specifications: Any person making any such excavation shall refill
the same properly and shall restore the surface to its condition before the
excavation was made, as soon as possible. All such excavations, refills and
resurfacing shall be made subject to the supervision and direction of the
commissioner of streets and public improvements. (1964 Code § 103; amd. 2000
Code)
      4.   Bond: Permits for excavation in or tunneling under any public
street, alley, sidewalk, or any other public place in the city shall not be
issued before a guarantee has been remitted and approved by the city council
that the completion of such excavation or tunneling shall be satisfactory under
this code. Such guarantee shall take the form of one of the following:
         a.   A deposit with the city of a bond in a form approved by the city,
in the amount of the estimated cost of the excavation or tunneling project,
such estimated cost to be determined by the city or its authorized
representative;
         b.   A deposit with the city of cash in the amount of the estimated
cost of the excavation or tunneling project, such estimated cost to be
determined by the city council or its authorized representatives. The excavator
shall execute "an undertaking in lieu of a bond" in a form to be approved by
the city and an "irrevocable commitment" from a financial institution in
similar form approved by city.
Such bond may be withdrawn, or the cash amount released by the city, upon the
completion of the project and return of city right of way to its condition
prior to the commencement of the project, in a manner satisfactory to the city
council or its representative. (Ord. 433, 9-10-2001)
   C.   Openings:
      1.   Permits Required: It is unlawful to construct or maintain any
opening or stairway in any public street or sidewalk or alley without first
obtaining a permit from the city council.
      2.   Specifications: All such lawfully maintained openings shall be
guarded by a suitable cover or railing approved by the commissioner of streets
and public improvements. (1964 Code § 105; amd. 2000 Code)
7-1-3: SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR:
   A.   Conformance Required: All streets and sidewalk pavements shall be made
in conformity with specifications laid down or approved from time to time by
the city council.
   B.   Liability: Each applicant shall be responsible to the city for any loss
or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same.
(1964 Code § 87)
   C.   Pavement Repair: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavement shall
be kept in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the city or by the
abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the commissioner of streets
and public improvements. (1964 Code § 89; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Report Of Defects: It shall be the duty of every city officer or
employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or
any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the commissioner of streets and
public improvements as soon as possible. (1964 Code § 90; amd. 2000 Code)
7-1-4: BARRICADES:
   A.   Required: Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street,
sidewalk or other public place, or making an excavation in any such place,
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle
by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by lights at
nighttime. Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent
injury, and any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any
such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open
by proper barricades and lights. (1964 Code § 92)
   B.   Disturbing: It is unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade
or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation in
any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1964 Code § 93)
7-1-5: DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   Permit Required, Application: No person shall construct a driveway for
vehicles or animals across any sidewalk in the city without first obtaining a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the city clerk
and shall be accompanied by the fee required. (1964 Code § 108)
   B.   Permit Fee: The fee for all such construction permits shall be one
dollar ($1.00). (1964 Code § 109)
   C.   Grade And Surface Requirements: No driveway shall be so constructed or
graded as to leave a step, sharp depression or other obstruction in the
sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining sidewalk. It is unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway,
where the same crosses the sidewalk, constructed of such materials as to render
it slippery and hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk or be other than level. (1964 Code § 110)
   D.   Material Specifications: Driveways across sidewalks shall be
constructed of concrete or of such other materials as may be approved by the
city council. (1964 Code § 111)
   E.   Maintenance: It is the duty of the person maintaining a driveway to
keep the same in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from
obstruction and openings. (1964 Code § 112)
7-1-6: ENCROACHMENTS AND OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to cause, create
or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way,
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the commissioner of
streets and public improvements when necessary in an emergency or in connection
with any lawful construction, repair or removal work. (1964 Code § 91; amd.
2000 Code)
      1.   This shall specifically include such obstruction by the parking or
usage of vehicles and equipment, including outdoor grills and related
paraphernalia on sidewalks and public ways.
      2.   Violation of subsection A1 of this section shall subject the
violator to a fine pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code, and which shall not be less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) for a first violation. (Ord. 492, 4-11-2005)
   B.   Poles Or Wires: It is unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires
on or over any public street, alley or other public way without having first
secured permission from the city council. Any utility pole placed along the
street shall be set at least two feet (2') from the curb line and any tile or
cable damaged by setting the pole shall be repaired by the utility and at their
expense. (1964 Code § 101)
7-1-7: POLITICAL AND COMMERCIAL SIGNS:
It is unlawful to place or allow to be placed any commercial sign or any signs
promoting a political candidate or party, on any street, alley or right of way
within the city. This section shall not apply to temporary signs for yard
sales, garage sales, auction signs (both 1 time and recurring auctions) or
temporary signs advertising a charitable event or benefit. For the purpose of
this section, "temporary" shall be defined as remaining on city rights of way
for no more than twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 511, 7-24-2006)
7-1-8: FILL AND OTHER MATERIALS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: In any case where a ditch or waterway on a city right
of way is desired to be filled in, obstructed, dammed or the flow of water
altered, the party wishing to do so shall first obtain a permit from the city
clerk. The application for such permit shall give exact details of the proposed
action to be taken by such party, and such further information as may be
requested by the commissioner of streets and public improvements, the city
council or the city engineer shall be provided. An application fee in the
amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be paid at the time of such
application.
   B.   Approve, Deny Permit: Within a reasonable time the city council shall
allow, disallow or require modification of such proposed work, based on its
determination of the best interest of the city drainage system and proper
utilization of city rights of way.
   C.   Work Done Without Permit: In the event the city right of way is filled
in, obstructed, dammed or the flow of water altered by the action of any
person, without having first obtained a permit from the city clerk, and if the
city takes action to reverse or correct such obstruction or resulting
condition, the party so violating this section shall be obligated to repay the
city for the reasonable cost of such work, including the wages of city
employees, the reasonable rental value of city equipment and the amounts paid
to any outside contractors in completing such remedial work.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be deemed to be a nuisance and
punishable under section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 391, 8-23-1999)
7-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Use Of Public Ways:
      1.   Merchandise And Advertising: It is unlawful for any person to use
any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale, or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any
such pavements. Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than three feet (3'), and provided, that no such
article shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1964 Code
§§ 94, 99)
      2.   Buildings: It is unlawful to erect or maintain any building or
structure which encroaches upon any public street or property. (1964 Code § 95)
      3.   Drains: It is unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or
alley. (1964 Code § 100)
   B.   Injury To:
      1.   New Pavement: It is unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or
animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the
same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft
or newly laid pavement. (1964 Code § 88)
      2.   Existing Pavements: It is unlawful to injure any sidewalk, street or
alley pavement. (1964 Code § 96)
   C.   Harmful Deposits:
      1.   On Streets And Sidewalks: It is unlawful to deposit on any street or
public sidewalk any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or
any waste material, glass or other articles which may do injury to any person,
animal or property. (1964 Code §§ 97, 99)
      2.   Coal Or Other Materials: Coal or other materials may be deposited in
streets preparatory to delivery or use; provided, that such deposit does not
reduce the usable width of the roadway at that point to less than eighteen feet
(18'); and also provided, that such material or coal, other than material to be
used in actual building construction, shall not be permitted to remain on such
street for more than three (3) hours. Any such material or coal shall be
guarded by lights if the same remains upon any street after nightfall. (1964
Code § 98)
7-1-10: PRESERVATION OF GREEN SPACES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to pave or gravel
city right of way or dedicated streets or alleys, or otherwise remove
permanently or cover grass or other plantings on city right of way, without
first having obtained a permit from the city clerk. This provision shall not
apply to driveways of no greater width than twenty feet (20') which provide
direct access to garages or parking areas.
   B.   The application for such permit shall give exact details of the
proposed action to be taken by such party, and such further information as may
be requested by the commissioner of streets and public improvements, the city
council or the city engineer shall be provided. An application fee in the
amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be paid at the time of such
application.
   C.   Within a reasonable time the city council shall allow, disallow or
require modification of such proposed work, based on its determination of the
best interest of the city and proper utilization of city rights of way.
   D.   In the event the city right of way is paved, graveled, or altered in
violation of the terms hereof by the action of any person, without having first
obtained a permit from the city clerk, the party so violating this section
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and shall be
obligated to repay the city for the reasonable cost of any remedial work,
including the wages of city employees, the reasonable rental value of city
equipment and the amounts paid to any outside contractors in completing such
remedial work. (Ord. 448, 8-12-2002)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Planting And Removal Requirements
7-2-2: Dangerous, Nuisance Trees
7-2-3: Attachment To Trees
7-2-4: Prohibited Conditions
7-2-1: PLANTING AND REMOVAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Planting: It is unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street
or parkway or other public place without having secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and referred by
him to the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements before issuance. All
trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to the direction and the
approval of the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements. (1964 Code §
144; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Removal: It is unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub in any
such public place without having obtained a permit therefor. Applications for
such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be referred to and
approved by the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements before
issuance. (1964 Code § 115; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Types Of Trees Allowed: The following trees only are allowed for
planting in any public street, parkway or other public place: ash, locust,
linden, ornamental pear, ornamental crab, maple (excluding sugar) and oak.
(2000 Code)
7-2-2: DANGEROUS, NUISANCE TREES:
Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public place in
the City in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel shall
be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which
such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease. Any tree or limb
of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any public way shall be
removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands. The
Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements may trim any such tree or shrub
or remove any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to
traffic or passage shall be done away with. All costs of such work are to be
paid by the property owner. (1964 Code § 117; amd. 2000 Code)
7-2-3: ATTACHMENT TO TREES:
   A.   Poles And Wires: It is unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree
or shrub in any public street, parkway or other public place without the
permission of the City Council. Any person which maintains poles and wires in
the streets, alleys or other public places, shall, in the absence of provision
in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from
and away from any trees and shrubs in such places as far as may be possible,
and shall keep all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Commissioner of Streets and Public
Improvements, so that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or
to the shrubs and trees by their contact. (1964 Code § 119)
   B.   Signs: It is unlawful to attach any signs, advertisements or notices to
any tree or shrub now growing in any such public place, street or parkway.
(1964 Code § 116)
7-2-4: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury:
      1.   It is unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted or growing in any
such public place. (1964 Code § 118)
      2.   In making excavations in the streets or other public places, proper
care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever
possible. (1964 Code § 121)
   B.   Leaky Gas Pipes: Any person maintaining any gas pipe in the City shall
keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any
trees or shrubs. (1964 Code § 120)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Scope Of Chapter
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Operation Of Parks
7-3-4: Park Activities
7-3-5: Traffic Regulations
7-3-6: Sanitary Regulations
7-3-7: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
7-3-8: Enforcement
7-3-9: Violation, Penalty
7-3-1: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed by any
officers or employee of the park in the line of duty or work as such, or by any
person, his agents or employees, in the proper and necessary execution of the
terms of any agreement with the City Council. This Chapter is in addition to
and supplemental to all City, State and Federal laws and ordinances. (Ord. 193,
1984)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given in this Section. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, words in the singular number
include the plural number. Any term in the masculine shall include the feminine
and neuter. The meaning of any term not otherwise defined in this Chapter shall
be as construed and interpreted in any other applicable City, State, and
Federal law and ordinance.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: As defined in the Illinois Liquor Control Act 1 .
CITY: The City of Chenoa.
COMMISSIONER: The Commissioner of Parks, Public Health and Safety, or his
authorized representative. He shall act on behalf of the City, enforce the
laws, maintain law enforcement, and maintain good order within the parks.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Is as defined in the Illinois Controlled Substance Act 2
.
GROUP: An assemblage of two (2) or more persons.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, swimming pool, recreation center or any
other area in the City owned or used, leased or controlled by the City and
devoted to active or passive recreation. It includes public rights of way not
part of the road surface.
PERMIT AND RESERVATION: Includes any authorization issued by the Commissioner
pursuant to the authority of the City for a specified park privilege, activity
or event or permitting the performance of a specified act or acts in any park
or any designated portion of a park.
PERSON: Individual, company, partnership, corporation, incorporated or
unincorporated association, or any combination of individuals, or any employee,
agent or officer thereof.
RULES AND REGULATIONS: Includes any City ordinance, regulation or policy
written or unwritten adopted by the Commissioner as authorized by the City
Council.
VEHICLE: Any device, conveyance, or combination of conveyances, wheeled or
without wheels (but excepting motor boats) propelled, towed, unpropelled or
animal drawn, that in, around or on which a person or thing is or may be
carried and shall include without limitation bicycles, scooters, mini-bikes,
motorcycles, snowmobiles, any trailer in tow of any size, kind or description.
(Ord. 193, 1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
2 1. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
7-3-3: OPERATION OF PARKS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: All public parks in the City shall be closed
between the following hours or periods, and no person shall enter or remain
upon the premises of said public park in the City between these hours:
   Central Park   10:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M. except during such times as organized
activities or tennis are taking place therein, in which case the closing hour
shall be extended to 12:30 A.M.
   Kelleher Park   10:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M.
   Redbird Park   10:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M.
   Silliman Park   Sunset to sunrise
   Catalpa Grove   Sunset to sunrise (Ord. 193, 1984; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Closed Areas: Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to
the public by the Commissioner at any time and for any interval of time, either
entirely or merely to certain uses as the Commissioner shall find reasonably
necessary. No person in a park shall enter or remain in an area posted as
"Closed to the Public", nor shall any person use or abet the use of any area in
violation of posted notices.
   C.   Use Of Parks:
      1.   Reservations: Permission shall be obtained from the Commissioner or
his designee before participating in the following park activities: special
events or organized activities requiring use of a park building or structure.
Reservations may be obtained for the use of the park pavilion or any other
facilities.
      2.   Liability Of Permittee, Bond: The person to whom a permit is issued
shall be liable for any loss, damage or injury sustained by any person whatever
by reason of the negligence of the person to whom such permit shall have been
issued. A certificate of insurance or bond may be required for special group
activities as a condition of issuance of a permit. The amount of insurance or
bond required shall be at the discretion of the Commissioner in light of the
anticipated attendance, length of time of use, facility to be used and past
performance of the applicant or group seeking to obtain the permit, as a
permittee. (Ord. 193, 1984)
7-3-4: PARK ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Picnic Areas And Use:
      1.   Location: No person in a park shall picnic or lunch in a place other
than those designated for that purpose. The Commissioner shall have the
authority to regulate the activities in such areas when necessary to prevent
congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and convenience of
all. (Ord. 193, 1984)
      2.   Cleanup: No person shall leave a picnic area unless and until any
fire in the area is completely extinguished and unless and until all trash
including, but not limited to boxes, paper, cans, bottles, garbage and other
refuse, is placed in the disposal receptacles available, but if such
receptacles are not available, then refuse and trash shall be carried away from
the park area by the picnicker to be properly disposed of elsewhere. (Ord. 193,
1984; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Bathing And Swimming: No person in a park shall swim, bathe or wade in
any pools, water or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters
and at such times and places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with
this Chapter and regulations established by the Commissioner.
   C.   Boating: No person in a park shall bring into or operate any boat, raft
or any other water craft, whether motor powered or not, upon any waters.
   D.   Fishing: No person in a park shall engage in commercial fishing or the
buying or selling of fish caught in any park waters. (Ord. 193, 1984)
   E.   Camping: No person shall camp in any of the parks in the City, with the
exception of Silliman Lake and Central Park, except in the areas as may from
time to time be designed or permitted upon written approval of the
Commissioner. Camping is allowed in Central Park, subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   Camping shall only be allowed for a period of twenty four (24) hours
at a time.
      2.   Camping is allowed at Silliman Lake for only a period of twenty four
(24) hours at a time and only with the prior written permission of the Chief of
Police or his duly authorized representative. (Ord. 193, 1984; amd. 2000 Code)
      3.   Tents shall not be allowed, it being the intent of this Chapter to
allow trailers and recreational vehicle camping only.
      4.   The designated areas for camping in Central Park are along the north
and west sides of the park, adjacent to the street, and the north side of the
library parking lot.
   F.   Fires:
      1.   No person in a park shall build or attempt to build a fire except in
grills provided and in such areas and under such regulations as may be
designated by the Commissioner. Persons bringing grills from outside the park
shall ensure that all fires are completely extinguished and such material as
coals are cooled and disposed of properly so as not to damage any park property
or area or injure any person.
      2.   No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material
within any park area or on any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous
thereto.
   G.   Going Onto Ice, Skating Areas: No person in a park shall go onto the
ice on any of the waters except such areas as are designated as skating areas
when posted as safe.
   H.   Snow Activities: No person shall sled, ride or ski within the park
except in areas designated for such purposes. (Ord. 193, 1984)
7-3-5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   State Motor Vehicle Laws Apply: No person in a park shall fail to
comply with all applicable provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code and City
Code to the same extent as if all park roadways were public highways, as
defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code, with such regulations as are contained in
this Code 1 .
   B.   Operation Confined To Roads: No person in a park shall drive any
vehicle on any area except the paved park roads or parking areas, or such other
areas as may on occasion be specifically designated as temporary traffic areas
by the Commissioner.
   C.   Parking In Designated Areas: No person in a park shall park a vehicle
in other than established or designated parking area, and such use shall be in
accordance with the posted directions, subject to instructions by any park
staff who may be present.
   D.   Night Parking: No person in a park shall leave a vehicle standing or
parked at night after park closing hours. (Ord. 193, 1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS and Title 6 of this Code.
7-3-6: SANITARY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water Pollution: No person in a park shall throw, discharge or
otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, spring,
drinking fountain or branch thereof, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of
water in or flowing into such water, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or
solid, such as stones, rubbish, or refuse, etc., which will or may result in
the pollution of such waters.
   B.   Refuse, Trash, Littering:
      1.   No person in the park shall:
         a.   Bring or cause to be brought in any bottles, broken glass, ashes,
paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or refuse or any other trash;
         b.   Except as provided in this subsection, dump, deposit or leave any
bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage
or refuse or other trash;
         c.   Place or allow to be placed any refuse or trash in any waters in
or contiguous to any park or left anywhere on the grounds thereof.
      2.   All trash, garbage and refuse shall be placed in the proper
receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles are not as provided,
all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere. (Ord. 193,
1984)
7-3-7: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Defacing Buildings, Property: No person in a park shall:
      1.   Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any building, bridge, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or
paving material, water lines or other public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal;
      2.   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat
and sanitary condition. No person over the age of four (4) years shall use the
restrooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex;
      3.   Dig or remove any beach sand, whether submerged or not, or any soil,
rock, stones, trees, shrubs, or plants, downed timber or other wood or
materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or other means
or agency;
      4.   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public
service utility into, upon or across such lands except on permit to do so by
the Commissioner as provided for in this Chapter.
   B.   Injury To Trees And Plants: No person in a park shall:
      1.   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant, or
injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant;
      2.   Attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant;
      3.   Dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure
or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area; (Ord. 193, 1984)
      4.   Climb any tree or light pole, or climb or sit upon monuments, vases,
fountains, railing, fences, or upon any other property not designated or
customarily used for such purposes; (Ord. 193, 1984; amd. 2000 Code)
      5.   Tie or hitch a horse or other animal to any tree or plant.
   C.   Hunting Or Disturbing Wild Animals Or Birds: No person in a park shall
hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot or throw missiles
at any animal, reptile, fish or bird; nor shall he remove or have in his
possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs or nests, or young of any
reptile or bird; nor shall he collect, remove, have in his possession, give
away, sell or offer to sell, or offer to buy, or accept as a gift, any specimen
alive or dead of any of the group of animals, reptiles, fish or birds being
kept in the parks or belonging thereto. This subsection does not prohibit
fishing in such lakes and ponds at such times as are designated by the
Commissioner.
   D.   Alcoholic Liquor Or Controlled Substances:
      1.   No person in a park shall drink, sell, possess, make a gift or offer
for sale any alcoholic liquor or controlled substance within the park.
      2.   No person under the influence of alcoholic liquor or controlled
substance shall enter or remain within the park, nor shall any person within
the park use, administer, receive, offer for sale, possess or make available to
himself or any other person or animal any alcoholic liquor or controlled
substance.
   E.   Firearms, Fireworks, Weapons, Explosives And Missiles: No person in a
park shall bring, have brought or have in his possession, or set off or
otherwise cause to explode or discharge or burn, any firecrackers, torpedo,
rocket, fireworks, firearms of any description, air or gas guns, pellet guns,
slingshots or missile throwing or propelling devices, corrosive or volatile
materials or explosives or highly inflammable material within the park or in
any such areas from land or highway adjacent thereto without the specific
written permit from the Commissioner, except park staff or park attendants or
enforcement officers of the City or other authorized law enforcement officers
while in the line of duty.
   F.   Loitering And Boisterousness:
      1.   No person in a park shall sleep on seats, or benches or engage in
loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language, or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to a breach of the public
peace.
      2.   No person shall disturb any picnic or other park activity or intrude
himself or herself upon it without the consent of those participating in it.
(Ord. 193, 1984)
7-3-8: ENFORCEMENT:
The commissioner and police officers shall, in connection with their duties
imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
commissioner or any police officer shall have the authority to:
   A.   Authority: Eject from the park or part thereof any person acting in
violation of this chapter. Any person so ejected shall not enter the park or
part thereof from which he was ejected for a period of twenty four (24) hours.
   B.   Seize Property: Seize and confiscate any property, thing or device in
the park possessed or used, in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 193, 1984)
7-3-9: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction be subject to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 193, 1984)
CHAPTER 4
SILLIMAN LAKE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Watercraft Rules And Regulations
7-4-2: Fishing, Hours
7-4-3: Ice Fishing Regulations
7-4-1: WATERCRAFT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted for boats at
Silliman Lake:
      1.   Boats shall be limited to boats propelled by oar, paddle and
electric motors. No restrictions shall be placed upon the horsepower of
electric motors.
      2.   Inflatable watercraft (belly boats, air mattresses, rubber rafts and
similar craft), and wooden rafts, homemade or otherwise, and jet skis shall not
be allowed.
      3.   No gas motors shall be permitted to operate on the waters of the
lake except to load and unload the boat on and off the boat trailer. No idling
of gas motors, trolling or tune-up work shall be allowed on the lake.
      4.   All watercraft must be in compliance with Coast Guard rules and
regulations. All motorboats over twelve feet (12') in length must have a
registration number issued by the State of Illinois in accordance with the
Illinois Boat Registration and Safety Act 1 , or issued in accordance with
Federal law or a Federally approved numbering system of another State.
Violations of this subsection by persons under the age of eighteen (18) years,
while operating a watercraft upon waters of Silliman Lake with the knowledge of
a parent or guardian, shall be deemed a violation by the parent or guardian and
punishable in accordance with subsection B of this Section. (Ord. 334, 3-25-
1996)
      5.   No person shall operate or anchor any watercraft on the waters of
the lake unless such watercraft have been registered with City Hall in the then
current calendar year, and after payment of such registration fee and
compliance with such registration requirements that may be required by the
City. (Ord. 334, 3-25-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
      6.   No person shall operate or anchor any watercraft on the surface of
the lake between sunset and sunrise.
      7.   No person shall operate any type of watercraft unless said person is
wearing a personal flotation device. (Ord. 334, 3-25-1996)
   B.   Violations of the provisions of this Section shall be fined as provided
in the general penalty provisions of Section
1-4-1 of this Code per occurrence, and every day that a violation continues to
occur shall be deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 334, 3-25-1996; amd. 2000
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 45/3-1 et seq.
7-4-2: FISHING, HOURS:
   A.   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted for fishing at
Silliman Lake:
      1.   Fishing from the bank or dock, shall be allowed daily from sunup to
sundown, except during the months of May, June, July and August, during which
months only, the hours shall be from sunup until twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight;
      2.   Fishing from boats shall be allowed daily from sunup to sundown
during all months of the year.
   B.   Violations of the provisions of this Section shall be punishable in
accordance with the general penalty provisions of Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and every day the violation continues to occur shall be
deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 349, 4-14-1997)
7-4-3: ICE FISHING REGULATIONS:
   A.   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted for ice fishing
at Silliman Lake:
      1.   All fishing must be in compliance with all Illinois Game Laws 1 .
      2.   The diameter of each fishing hole shall be eight inches (8") or
less.
      3.   No person shall be on the surface of the lake between sunset and
sunrise.
      4.   No motorized vehicle shall be allowed on the lake ice at any time.
   B.   Violations of the provisions of this Section shall be punishable in
accordance with the general penalty provisions of Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and every day that a violation continues to occur shall be
deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 332, 2-12-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 520 ILCS 5/1.1 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
STREET ADDRESS UNIFORMITY GUIDELINES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Names Of Streets
7-5-2: Numbering Of Houses, Buildings And Other Structures
7-5-3: Penalty
7-5-1: NAMES OF STREETS:
   A.   There is hereby established a uniform system for street naming and
renaming and for numbering property and buildings on all street, lanes, roads,
highways, and public ways in the City of Chenoa.
   B.   All streets, lanes, roads, highways, and public ways in the City of
Chenoa shall be known and designated by the names applied thereto,
respectively, on the map of the City of Chenoa kept on file in the office of
the City Clerk. The street names designated on such map shall continue to be
the names of streets unless and until changed by ordinance of the City of
Chenoa. The naming of all such streets, lanes, roads, highways, and public ways
shall be coordinated by the City of Chenoa, the McLean County Emergency
Telephone System Board, and the United States Postal Service.
   C.   Signs designating the names of public streets, lanes, roads, and
highways shall be erected and maintained by the City of Chenoa.
   D.   Signs designating the names of private streets, lanes, roads, and
highways shall be erected and maintained at the expense of the property owner
(s) occupying such private streets, lanes, roads, and highways. Said signs
shall be located to be easily visible to emergency personnel traveling from a
public access road into the private roadway. All signs shall be of the same or
similar construction as the signs erected by the City of Chenoa and shall be
installed within ninety (90) days of notification to the private property owner
(s).
   E.   The City of Chenoa has the exclusive jurisdiction to assign addresses
in conformity with these standards. (Ord. 772, 10-14-19)
7-5-2: NUMBERING OF HOUSES, BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES:
   A.   1.   All buildings shall be numbered in accordance with the provisions
set forth herein. All numbers for property shall be assigned in a manner
mutually agreed upon the City of Chenoa, the McLean County Emergency Telephone
System Board, and the United States Postal Service.
      2.   Each house, building, or other structure (occupied or unoccupied)
shall be assigned a separate number. A number or alphabetical letter shall be
assigned for each separate occupant (i.e. apartment, company, etc.) within a
building or other occupied structure.
      3.   Existing numbers shall be changed only as necessary to ensure the
effectiveness and efficiency of the Enhanced 911 System in the City of Chenoa,
as determined in the judgment of the McLean County Emergency Telephone System
Board.
      4.   Written notification of the proper address of each house, building,
or structure shall be given to its owner(s), occupant, or agent in all
instances where a new number has been assigned under the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Placement Of Numbers:
      1.   The owner, occupant or agent of each house, building or other
structure shall be assigned a number under the uniform numbering system
provided in this chapter shall place or cause to be placed such number on or
near house, building or other structure within ninety (90) days after receiving
notification of the proper number assignment.
      2.   Cost and installation of the numbers for the structures shall be
paid for by the property owner. Numbers shall be not less than three (3) inches
in height. All numbers shall be made of durable and clearly visible material.
      3.   All numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on or
at the side of the appropriate door to the house, building or other structure
so that the number is clearly visible from the street. In cases where the
structure is situated so that numbers placed upon it cannot be clearly visible
from the street, the structure number shall be placed near the walk, driveway,
or common entrance to the structure and upon the mailbox, gatepost, fence or
other appropriate place so as to be clearly visible from the street.
      4.   All numbers shall be of a color and nature that contrasts with the
color of the post or siding on which it resides. For example, a white number on
black siding contrasts. A tan number on brown siding, may not comply. (Ord.
772, 10-14-19)
7-5-3: PENALTY:
Failure of owner(s) to place signs and/or numbering pursuant to this chapter
shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter. Any person who violates
this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) or more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day per
violation. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 772, 10-14-19)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Combined Waterworks And Sewerage System
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Charges And Rates
8-1-4: Books Of Accounts
8-1-5: Application For Connection
8-1-6: Power And Authority Of Inspectors
8-1-7: Termination Of City Service
8-1-8: Violations, Penalties
8-1-9: Damage To City Water Mains And Sewers
8-1-1: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM:
   A.   Systems Combined: The existing waterworks system and existing sanitary
sewerage system of the city are combined into a single utility to be known and
designated as the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the city. (Ord.
145, 1980)
   B.   City Property Use:
      1.   The combined waterworks and sewerage system of the city, hereinafter
to be constructed is authorized the use of all city streets, alleys, and any
and all other property heretofore dedicated to the city for public use. (Ord.
140, 1980)
      2.   In addition, all property owned by the city in fee simple is
authorized to be used for the purpose of the waterworks and sewerage system.
(Ord. 140, 1980; amd. 2000 Code)
      3.   Such authorization and dedication shall be to the extent of
engineering requirements as set out on plans and specifications hereinbefore
and hereinafter submitted and amended by the city engineers with respect to the
system. (Ord. 140, 1980)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the
building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY: The city of Chenoa, McLean County, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Chenoa.
COLLECTOR: The city treasurer or the person designated by the city council to
render bills for water and sewer service and to collect all money due
therefrom. "Treasurer" means the duly appointed treasurer of the city.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
FEDERAL ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.)
as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of 1972
(Pub. L. 92-500 and Pub. L. 93-243).
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title 11-Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
   A.   Division A--Agriculture, forestry, and fishing;
   B.   Division B--Mining;
   C.   Division D--Manufacturing;
   D.   Division E--Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services;
   E.   Division I--Services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the City
Council that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes
from sanitary conveniences.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average work day; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its waste, a
toxic pollutant in the amounts as defined in standards issued under Section 307
(a) of the Federal Act; or d) is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is one-thousandths (0.001) gram of the constituent in one
thousand (1,000) ml of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly,
parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the
results of water and wastewater analysis.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or groundwater.
ORDINANCE: The ordinance codified in this Title.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard Methods".
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen-hundredths (0.17)
pounds of BOD and twenty-hundredths (0.20) pounds of suspended solids.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the City.
It also includes sewers within or outside the City boundaries that serve one or
more persons and ultimately discharge into the City sanitary or combined sewer
system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with City funds.
PUBLIC WATER MAIN: Water main in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL OR NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user as
provided for in this Section.
SADDLE: Sewer connection device designed for use when tapping an existing main.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SHALL AND MAY: Clarification of word usage: "shall" is mandatory; "may" is
permissible.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
STATE ACT: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970 1 .
STATE GRANT: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of the combined Waterworks and Sewerage
Department of the City, or his authorized deputy, agent, or representative 2 .
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USER CLASS: The type of user either "residential or commercial" (nonindustrial)
or "industrial" as defined in this Section.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
WATER MAIN: A pipe or conduit for carrying water.
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
WATER SERVICE PIPE: The pipe extending from a building to water main.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 147, 1980)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1.
2 2. See Title 1, Chapter 9 of this Code.
8-1-3: CHARGES AND RATES:
A charge shall be made to the residents of the city which shall be reasonable
for the use and service of such waterworks and sewerage system as may be
determined from time to time by ordinance adopted by the city. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-1-4: BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS:
The city treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept full and complete books of
accounts separate and apart from any other records of his office showing in
detail all monies received by him for the waterworks and sewerage department
with dates and sources. He shall also keep such other books relating to the
waterworks and sewerage department as the city council may from time to time
direct. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-1-5: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION:
   A.   Application: Any person desiring to make any connection with the
waterworks and sewerage system or plant for their water service, or have the
use thereof shall first make application through the city clerk upon a blank
form or forms furnished by the city. With regard to such application and
installation, the following shall apply:
      1.   The application shall be signed by the owner of the property, and
shall contain the name, address and driver's license of the applicant, the
address of the service connection, if different from the applicant's address,
and shall contain an agreement on the part of the applicant that all the rules,
regulations, conditions and provisions of any ordinance relating to the
waterworks and sewerage system will be complied with; that all water and
sewerage rates, assessments and rents and fines and penalties assessed, charged
or imposed against the applicant upon the property described in the application
will be paid. In the case of new construction, the application shall be made at
the same time as the application for a building permit as required in this
code, and no building permit will be issued without a permit hereunder having
first been issued. When the applicant hereunder has complied with all the
provisions of the ordinances of the city, and the city has approved the
application, and all applicable permit fees have been paid, a written permit
shall then be issued by the city clerk authorizing the connection to be made
and specifying the size thereof.
      2.   No connections with the water main shall be made without a permit
being issued and twenty four (24) hours' notice having been given to the
superintendent or his duly authorized representative. The permit and inspection
fee for any water service connection shall be four hundred dollars ($400.00),
provided however that with respect to connections to water mains privately
owned and maintained in manufactured home districts, the permit and inspection
fee for such connections shall instead be one hundred dollars ($100.00). City
inspections as set forth in subsection A3 of this section shall be required in
such instances. The fee shall cover the cost of a connection to a main and
installation of a three- fourths inch (3/4") water service line from the main
to the owner's property line and installation of a curb stop and box. It shall
include the furnishing of a meter for single- family residence service. In
addition, if the water line to be connected is more than three-fourths inch (3/
4") in diameter or a larger meter is required, an extra fee shall be charged in
addition to the charge as set forth above, which shall consist of the cost of
the connection and/or meter to the city over and above such cost. All such
connections shall be made and all such work shall be done by persons duly
authorized by the city.
      3.   Prior to covering any water service lines after installation of
same, the applicant will notify the city, which will then cause the proposed
water service line to be inspected by a city representative.
      4.   Permit requirements for connections to the city sewerage system
shall be in accordance with chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 544, 4-14-2008)
      5.   When the applicant hereunder has complied with all the provisions of
the ordinances of the city, and the city has approved the application, and all
applicable permit fees have been paid, a written permit shall then be issued by
the city clerk authorizing the connection to be made and specifying the size
thereof.
   B.   Transfer Of Existing Service:
      1.   Any person may request a transfer of an existing service to a new
user by making application to the city clerk. Such application shall be signed
by the owner of the property (unless the owner has filed with the city an
authorization for assent to all water service applications by his or her
tenants), and shall contain the name, address and driver's license of the
applicant, the address of the service connection, if different from the
applicant's address, and shall contain an agreement on the part of the
applicant that all the rules, regulations, conditions and provisions of any
ordinance relating to the waterworks and sewerage system will be complied with;
that all water and sewerage rates, assessments and rents and fines and
penalties assessed, charged or imposed against the applicant upon the property
described in the application will be paid.
      2.   In the case of an applicant for transfer of an existing service who
is an existing user or a former user, and who in either case has no outstanding
amount due the city for water or sewer service, no application permit fee shall
be due.
In the case of an applicant who is an existing or former user who in either
case has an outstanding amount due the city for water or sewer service, the
outstanding amount shall be paid to the city before the transfer is allowed.
Also in such case, and in the case of a new user (no previous usage of the city
water and sewer service), a nonrefundable seventy five dollar ($75.00) permit
fee shall be paid at the time of application. (Ord. 598, 8-22-2011)
8-1-6: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the city, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the U.S.
environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The superintendent or his representative shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical
oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   Indemnification, Liability: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to above, the superintendent and duly authorized
employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the employees and the city council indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in subsection
 8-3B-1D of this title.
   C.   Compliance With Terms Of Easement: The superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement. All and subsequent work, if any, on
the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 147,
1980)
8-1-7: TERMINATION OF CITY SERVICE:
   A.   Notice To Terminate Service: Any user requesting a termination of
service shall give written notice to the city clerk ten (10) days prior to the
time such termination of service is desired. Responsibility for payment for
water and/or sewer service prior to the date of termination shall remain with
the property owners, and if occupants and as user. There shall be no charge for
transferring the water and/or sewer service to the subsequent user.
   B.   Disconnection Procedures: In all cases where a property owner desires
to disconnect from city water service on its property, the following procedures
will apply:
      1.   Property owner will notify the city clerk who will cause the water
service to be disconnected. There will be no permit fee unless the shutoff is
requested to be done after working hours, in which case a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) will be charged.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to disconnect
all preexisting septic systems by means of physically removing or blocking
existing sewer or tile lines on both sides of the existing septic tank or
cesspool, as the case may be, and fill the septic tank or cesspool with sand.
      3.   The city shall make an inspection to ensure that the procedures have
been followed.
      4.   If the property owner shall at a future date desire to reconnect to
the sewer and water system, all procedures for reconnecting as provided in this
title, shall be followed. Provided however, in the case of temporary
disconnections by homeowners for vacation or related absences, no reconnection
application or fee shall be required, unless such reconnection is requested to
be done after working hours, in which case a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee
shall be charged. (Ord. 544, 4-14-2008)
8-1-8: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
   A.   Except as may be otherwise provided in this title, any person found to
be violating any provisions of this title shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
Within the period of time stated in such notice, the offender shall permanently
cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a
result of any violation of any provisions of this title.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in the general penalty
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 147, 1980; amd. Ord. 182, 1982; 2000 Code)
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall become
liable to the city by reason of such violation.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other penalty for violation in this title,
violation of any provisions in this title can, at the option of the city,
result in discontinuance of service as set forth in section
8-2-12 of this title. (Ord. 147, 1980; amd. Ord. 182, 1982)
8-1-9: DAMAGE TO CITY WATER MAINS AND SEWERS:
   A.   If city water mains, storm sewers or sanitary sewers are damaged or
uncovered in the course of any work or action by private owners and/or
contractors, a city employee or official shall be notified prior to such sewers
being repaired or covered.
   B.   All excavation and/or repair work on such lines shall be conducted by
the city or a contractor approved by the city, which shall be reimbursed for
the reasonable costs for the work and for damages for injury or damage to the
sewer, by the owner and/or contractor. (Ord. 560, 11-10-2008)
CHAPTER 2
WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Responsibility Of City Officials
8-2-3: Administration Of Revenues
8-2-4: Accounting
8-2-5: Notice Of Rates (Rep. by Ord. 544, 4-14-2008)
8-2-6: Meters Required
8-2-7: Water User Charges
8-2-8: Wastewater Charges
8-2-8-1: General Basis For Charges
8-2-8-2: Measurement Of Flow
8-2-8-3: Minimum Charge And Basic Rate
8-2-8-4: Wastewater Surcharge
8-2-9: Industrial Cost Recovery
8-2-9-1: Procedures
8-2-9-2: Charges
8-2-9-3: High Strength Wastewater Surcharge
8-2-9-4: Retained Amounts
8-2-10: Determination Of Charges; Billing And Collection
8-2-11: Water Leaks, Excessive Usage
8-2-12: Service Discontinuance
8-2-13: Lien For Nonpayment
8-2-14: Violations, Penalty
8-2-15:    Deposits
8-2-16: ACH Election
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions contained in section
8-1-2 of this title regulating the operation of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system for the city shall apply to this chapter, and, unless the
context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used in this
chapter shall be as set out in this section:
BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all usage of the public sewer
system.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge which is levied
on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the concentration
values established in section
8-2-8-1 of this chapter.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be thirty (30) years from the date
of start up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance and a debt service.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per a one month period levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in section
8-2-8 of this chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge,
and a surcharge, if applicable.
WATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge for a one month period levied on all users of
the combined waterworks and sewerage system for water service. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS:
   A.   City Collector: The City Collector shall maintain the necessary records
for determination of user share of the cost and shall provide the billing and
collection services as required.
   B.   City Treasurer: The City Treasurer shall be responsible for the
investment and expenditure of all monies collected for industrial cost recovery
in accordance with Sections
8-2-9-3,
8-2-9-1H,
8-2-9-4A and
8-2-9-4B of this Chapter.
   C.   Sewage Plant Superintendent: The Sewage Plant Superintendent shall
maintain a program of monitoring industrial user discharges as the City Council
deems necessary; provided, that any major contributing industry shall be
monitored no less than twelve (12) times annually. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-3: ADMINISTRATION OF REVENUES:
   A.   Separate Fund: All revenues and money derived from the operation of the
system shall be deposited in the waterworks and sewerage account. The City
Council shall designate a collector for the combined waterworks and sewerage
system of the City, and it shall be the duty of such collector to render bills
for service and all other charges in connection therewith and to collect all
monies due thereon. The collector shall be covered to the maximum amount on
hand at any time by an approved corporate surety bond. All such revenues and
monies shall be held by the City Collector separate and apart from his private
funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the City and all of the
sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the City Treasurer
not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may, from time to time, be directed by the City Council.
   B.   Administration Of Fund: The City Treasurer shall receive all such
revenues from the system and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the
same in the account of the fund designated as the Waterworks and Sewerage Fund
for the City. The City Treasurer shall administer such Fund in every respect in
the manner provided by the statute of the State of Illinois, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-130-11. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-4: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   System Of Accounts: The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
combined waterworks and sewerage system and at regular annual intervals he
shall cause to be made an audit by a certified public accountant of the books
to show the receipts and disbursements of the combined waterworks and sewerage
system as well as other necessary information.
   B.   Monthly Reports: Furthermore, it shall be the duty of the City
Treasurer to file with the City Council a monthly report which shall include
for the month:
      1.   A list of the turn-off notices which he provided the Superintendent
of the system;
      2.   A list of the current month delinquencies;
      3.   The number of bills mailed;
      4.   The number of gallons billed or sold;
      5.   The number of gallons pumped into the system;
      6.   A list of the various revenues of the system for the month and total
year to date along with the expenses for the month and total year to date;
      7.   The cash balances and investments on hand in each of the several
funds of the waterworks and sewerage system.
   C.   Annual Audit: In addition to the customary operating statement, the
annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of
the waterworks facilities and wastewater facilities, including a replacement
cost, to indicate that the sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery
system and capital amounts required to be recovered under the industrial cost
recovery system do in fact meet these regulations. In this regard, the
financial information to be shown in the audit report shall include the
following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons dumped to the water distribution
system;
      2.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year;
      3.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed for water use
and sewer use;
      4.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      5.   Number of users connected to the system;
      6.   Number of nonmetered users;
      7.   A list of users discharging nondomestic waste (industrial users) and
volume of waste discharged.
   D.   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency, or its
authorized representative, shall have access to any books, documents, papers
and records of the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges
or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any state grant. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-5: NOTICE OF RATES:
(Rep. by Ord. 544, 4-14-2008)
8-2-6: METERS REQUIRED:
No free service of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the city
shall be furnished to any user either a person, firm, organization or
corporation, public or private. Every user of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system shall have a meter and every such water meter shall be sealed.
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system of the city to maintain all meters of the system in good and
accurate working condition, and to replace all meters as he shall determine
have become inaccurate or faulty. Also, he shall report the master meter
reading to the city treasurer on the first of each month. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-7: WATER USER CHARGES:
   A.   The charge for water service based upon the amount of water consumed
each month as shown by water meters shall be as follows:
      1.   A minimum charge of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per month to all users
whose water consumption does not exceed one thousand (1,000) gallons per month
starting July 1st, 2021. On May 1st, 2022, such minimum charge will increase to
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month. After April 30th, 2023, the minimum charge
for water consumption shall increase two percent (2%) annually on May 1st of
each year.
      2.   In addition, a basic user rate of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per
thousand gallons, prorated portion thereof, metered in excess of one thousand
(1,000) gallons per month starting July 1st, 2021. On May 1, 2022, the rate
will increase two dollars ($2.00) to fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month. After
April 30th, 2023, the rate for water consumption shall increase two percent
(2%) annually on May 1st of each year.
      3.   In addition to the above charges for water service, all water users,
whether inside the city under this subsection A, or outside the city under
subsection B of this section, shall pay a total of six dollars and twenty-five
cents ($6.25) per month as a surcharge and in addition to the charges as set
forth above starting July 1st, 2021. On May 1, 2022, the surcharge will
increase twenty-five cents ($0.25) to six dollars and fifty cents ($6.50) per
month.
   B.   Users Outside City: Users whose premises are outside the corporate
limits of the city shall pay at twice the rate set out in subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Water For Tank Wagons: Bulk water sold to tank wagons located at a
location provided by the city shall be charged at the rate of thirty cents
($0.30) per thirty (30) gallons.
   D.   Building And Special Permits: Persons desiring to use the city water
for building purposes, filling cisterns or for any special purpose whatever,
shall make application to the city treasurer and pay in advance for the same,
except when meter is attached, then the city treasurer will issue a permit for
such specified uses. (Ord. 676, 10-13-2014; amd. Ord. 819, 5-25-2021)
8-2-8: WASTEWATER CHARGES:
8-2-8-1: GENERAL BASIS FOR CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater User Charges: The wastewater user charge for the
use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the city shall
consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement,
and a surcharge, if applicable. It shall apply to all users of the sanitary
sewer system and the combined sewer system.
   B.   Charge Based On Waste Strength: The user charge shall be based on water
usage as recorded by water meters for normal waste having the following
strengths:
      1.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
      2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams per
liter (250 mg/l).
   C.   Meter Readings: Water meter readings shall be assumed to equal sewage
flow except in cases where the user may show adequate proof that water passed
through the meter is not returned to the sewer. An adjustment in meter readings
will be made in such cases if the user furnishes the meter readings of water
flow not discharged to the sewer.
   D.   Computation: The user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
      1.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
and the debt service requirements;
      2.   Estimate wastewater volume discharged to the sewer system based on
total water meter readings after appropriate adjustment for water not returned
to the sewer and/or water from unmetered private sources which is discharged to
the sewer system;
      3.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength wastes.
   E.   Excess Use: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal concentrations for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge
will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters
for all wastes which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and
two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) concentration for BOD and SS,
respectively.
   F.   Annual Review: The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be
reviewed annually by certified public accountants for the city in their annual
audit report. The wastewater meter charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in operation and maintenance costs including replacement costs
and adjusted as required. One of the purposes of the annual review shall be to
maintain service charges in relation to cost and assure that all use classes
are being charged an equitable share. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-8-2: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
The volume of flow used for computing user charges and surcharges shall be the
metered water consumption read to the lowest even measurements of one hundred
(100) gallons.
   A.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part of or all of his water from sources other than the city water system, all
or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from
these other sources.
   B.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged to the sanitary
sewer may be required by the city council if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
   C.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste not discharged to the
sanitary sewer may be required by the city council.
   D.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the city council. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-8-3: MINIMUM CHARGE AND BASIC RATE:
   A.   There is hereby established a minimum charge and a basic user rate for
the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the City:
      1.   A minimum charge of four dollars and seventy-five cents ($4.75) per
month to all users whose water consumption does not exceed one thousand (1,000)
gallons per month starting July 1st, 2021. On May 1st, 2022, such minimum
charge will increase to five dollars and twenty-five cents ($5.25) per month.
After April 30th, 2023, the minimum charge for wastewater shall increase two
percent (2%) annually on May 1st of each year .
      2.   In addition, a basic user rate of four dollars and seventy-five
cents ($4.75) per thousand gallons metered in excess of one thousand gallons
(1,000) per month starting July 1st, 2021. On May 1st, 2022, such minimum
charge will increase to five dollars and twenty-five cents ($5.25) per month.
After April 30th, 2023, the minimum charge for wastewater shall increase two
percent(2%) annually on May 1st of each year. (Ord. 819, 5-25-2021)
8-2-8-4: WASTEWATER SURCHARGE:
   A.   Surcharge Rate: For waste strengths above normal strength of two
hundred (200) mg/l BOD and two hundred fifty (250) mg/l SS, a surcharge of
twenty four cents ($0.24) per pound BOD and eight cents ($0.08) per pound SS
shall be applied. The surcharge for each monthly period shall be computed by
the following formulae:
      SCBOD = (x-200) x ^ x 0.0000083 x $0.24
      SCSS = (y-250) x ^ x 0.0000083 x $0.08
      where:
      SCBOD - surcharge above the basic user rate for BOD concentration above
200 mg/l.
      SCSS - surcharge above the basic user rate for SS concentration above 250
mg/l.
      x = average BOD concentration mg/l.
      y = average SS concentration in mg/l.
      ^ = one month metered water flow adjusted for appropriate losses in
gallons.
   B.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the City Council and
shall be binding as a basis for surcharge.
   C.   Computation Of Total Wastewater User Charge: The wastewater user charge
shall be computed by the following formula:
      CW = MC + BC + SCBOD + SCSS
      where:
      CW = total wastewater user charge.
      MC = minimum charge as set out in Section
 8-2-8-3 of this Chapter.
      BC = basic user charge as set out in Section
8-2-8-3 of this Chapter.
      SCBOD surcharge for BOD as computed in subsection A of this Section.
      SCSS surcharge for SS as computed in subsection A of this Section. (Ord.
146, 1980)
8-2-9: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
8-2-9-1: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Industrial Cost Recovery Required: Each industrial user shall pay that
portion of any State grant which has been obtained by the City for the
financing of the construction of wastewater treatment works allocable to the
treatment of the wastewater from such user. Such users' share shall not include
an interest component.
   B.   Payment: Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each
industrial user of the treatment works shall pay the cost recovery amount
determined by Section
 8-2-2 of this Chapter and this Section
8-2-9 for each industry divided by the recovery period. Where an industry is
connected to a public sewer after the start-up of the facilities constructed
under a State grant, such industry shall only pay its portion of the State
grant for each quarter remaining in the recovery period. Such industry will not
be required to pay for those quarters of the recovery period prior to
connection to a public sewer.
   C.   Length Of Industrial Cost Recovery Period: The length of industrial
recovery period shall be equal to the useful life of the treatment work which
shall be thirty (30) years from 1982 not to exceed thirty (30) years.
   D.   Payments And Billing For Industrial Cost Recovery Period: Industrial
cost recovery charges to industrial users shall be included with the regular
billing for sewer use charges as specified in Section
8-2-2 of this Chapter and this Section
8-2-9.
   E.   Charge Adjustment For Plant Improvement: If there is an expansion or
upgrading of the treatment works utilizing a State grant, each existing
industrial user's share shall be adjusted accordingly.
   F.   Unused Or Unreserved Capacity: An industrial user's portion of any
State grant shall not include any portion of the grant amount allocable to
unused or reserved capacity.
   G.   Allowance For Commitment For Increased Use: An industrial user's
portion of any State grant shall include allowance for the cost of any firm
commitment to the City for any increased use by such user.
   H.   Payment To State Required: The City shall retain fifty percent (50%) of
the amount recovered from industrial users. The remainder, together with any
interest earned thereon, shall be returned to the State of Illinois Anti-
Pollution Fund on an annual basis. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-9-2: CHARGES:
   A.   Basis: The charge for industrial cost recovery shall be based on a
charge per unit volume of normal strength process flow. Normal strength flow
shall be waste strength less that or equal to two hundred (200) mg/l BOD and
two hundred fifty (250) mg/l.
   B.   Total Charge To Industrial User.
      1.   The total industrial cost recovery charge for each billing period
shall be determined by multiplying a user's industrial process flow volume
discharge during billing period by:
   $0.28 per 1,000 gallons
for those users discharging standard strength waste. For users producing wastes
having strengths higher than normal, a surcharge shall be added computed in
accordance with Section
8-2-9-3 of this Section.
      2.   Industrial process flow volume shall be determined by measurement or
estimation of all water flow through industrial plant processes. In absence of
meter readings, process flow shall be estimated by using the following formula:
         PF = TWF - DF - CF
         where:
         PF = process flow for billing period.
         TWF = total water flow for billing period from meter reading plus
estimates of flow from private wells, if any.
         DF = domestic flow from employees estimated by multiplying the average
number of man-shifts worked for the billing period by an allowance of twenty
five (25) gallons per man-shift worked.
         CF = flow consumed or otherwise not returned to the sewer. In
addition, those discharging waste having strengths greater than standard shall
pay the surcharge set out in Section
8-2-9-3 of this Section.
      3.   If, in the opinion of the City Council, the City's interest would be
served by making the above estimation on an annual basis, then the City Council
may elect to negotiate with each industry a percentage of the total water flow
to estimate process flow each billing period. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-9-3: HIGH STRENGTH WASTEWATER SURCHARGE:
   A.   Surcharge Rate: For waste strengths above normal strength of two
hundred (200) mg/l BOD and two hundred fifty (250) mg/l SS, a surcharge of:
      $0.024 per pound of BOD
      $0.020 per pound of SS
shall be applied to process flow volume and measured waste strength quantities
in excess of normal. It shall be computed by the following formula.
      SCBOD = (x-200) x PF x 0.0000083 x $0.024
      SCSS = (y-250) x PF x 0.0000083 x $0.20
      where:
      SCBOD = surcharge above the industrial cost recovery rate for BOD
concentration above 200 mg/l.
      SCSS = surcharge above the industrial cost recovery rate for SS
concentration above 250 mg/l.
      x = average BOD concentration in mg/l.
      y = average SS concentration in mg/l.
      PF = process flow computed as in subsection
 8-2-9-2B of this chapter.
   B.   Waste Sampling: The concentration of wastes used for computing
surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be
performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the City Council and shall be
binding as a waste for surcharges. (Ord. 146, 1980)
8-2-9-4: RETAINED AMOUNTS:
   A.   Disposition, Expansion Of Treatment Works: Eighty percent (80%) of the
retained amounts, together with interest earned thereon, shall be used solely
for the eligible costs of the expansion or reconstruction of treatment works
associated with the project and necessary to meet the requirements of the
Federal Act and the State of Illinois. Prior to commitment of the retained
amounts, the City shall obtain written approval of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency for an expansion or reconstruction. The remainder of the
retained amount may be used for such expenditures as the City deems
appropriate.
   B.   Investment Required: Pending use, the grantee shall invest the retained
amounts for reconstruction and expansion in:
      1.   Obligations of the U.S. government; or
      2.   Obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S.
government or any agency thereof; or
      3.   Shall deposit such amounts in accounts fully collateralized by
obligations of the U.S. government or by obligations fully guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the U.S. government or any agency thereof. (Ord. 146,
1980)
8-2-10: DETERMINATION OF CHARGES; BILLING AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Monthly Payments, Liability: The water service charge and sewer user
charge, and industrial cost recovery charges, for service shall be payable
monthly or as close thereof as reasonably possible. The owner of the premises,
the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable therefor to the City.
   B.   Determination Of Quantity: If any water meter at any time fails to
register the quantity of water running through it, the quantity shall be
determined and the charge made based on the amount registered during the month
preceding the date of such failure, or the usage for the same month of the
preceding year, whichever is the greater.
   C.   Billing And Collection:
      1.   Bills for the water and sewer service shall be dated and sent out at
such monthly times as may be directed by the City Council, and the City Council
may change such times from time to time, as necessary for the reasonable
administration of the department.
      2.   Billing and notices will be mailed or delivered to the user or
owner's last address as shown by the records of the City when due, but failure
to receive same will not relieve the user and/or owner from its obligation to
pay the bill.
      3.   All bills are due and payable on the twenty fifth day of each month,
subject to change as determined by the city council as set forth herein. If the
twenty fifth day of a particular month falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, then
the bills are due and payable on the next successive day, without additional
penalty. All bills are consider delinquent after the twenty fifth of each
month, or the first business day following such legal holiday or Sunday as
provided for in this section. A penalty charge shall be added to bills not paid
before the due date of ten dollars ($10.00), with an additional ten dollars
($10.00) for each successive month during which the bill has not been paid.
   D.   Local Debt Recovery Program:
      1.   Certification For Collection: Unpaid charges on sewer and water
accounts shall not be certified to the comptroller until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have been provided to the account owner listed on the
account involved. The notice shall be sent by first class mail to the last
known address of the account owner and shall state that if payment is not made
before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will
be certified by the City for collection as other debts may be collected. The
notice shall also state that the account owner may, before such certification
date, request a hearing on the matter to object to certification of unpaid
utility charges.
      2.   Hearing: If requested by the account owner, a hearing shall be held
on the matter by the Sewer and Water Commissioner or his designee. Account
owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity to object to the
certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are collected. If,
after the hearing if requested by the account owner, the Sewer and Water
Commissioner or his designee finds that the amounts claimed as delinquent are
actually due and unpaid and that there is no reason why the unpaid charges
should not be certified for collection with taxes in accordance with this
subsection D, the Sewer and Water Commissioner may certify the unpaid charges
to the Comptroller for collection as other debts owed are collected.
      3.   Option To Pay: For each certification sustained, the account owner
shall have the option to pay the delinquent amount within ten (10) days of the
hearing date, after which the City may certify the delinquent amount to the
Comptroller. (Ord. 544, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 635, 3-25-2013; Ord. 744, 9-11-
2017; Ord. 770, 9-23-2019)
8-2-11: WATER LEAKS, EXCESSIVE USAGE:
In the event of a complaint by a customer that a particular water bill is
excessive, an authorized City employee will make a determination if it is due
to a defective water meter or other fault of the City. If it is due to a water
leak on the premises, no adjustment will be made without full City Council
approval, as it is the customer's responsibility to repair any leaks. In the
event the City employee makes a determination that it is the City's
responsibility, then the employee will make a report to the City Clerk, for
inclusion in the City files as to the reason, and subject to the approval of
the City Water and Sewer Commissioner, the bill or bills will be adjusted by
using an average as generated by the water billing computer of the use by that
customer over the previous six (6) months, to determine the actual amount to be
billed. (Ord. 302, 1994)
8-2-12: SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   Right To Discontinue: The City shall at all times have the right to
discontinue service to a customer for any one or more of the following reasons
or conditions:
      1.   Use of water or sewer service with intent to defraud the City of
payment for all or part of sums due City for such use;
      2.   Use of water or sewer service in an illegal manner, for furtherance
of an illegal purpose, or for any purpose other than that described in the
application;
      3.   Resale or redistribution of water;
      4.   Molesting or tampering with any service connection, curb stop,
meter, meter seal, sewer or other property of the City;
      5.   Continued vacancy of premises;
      6.   Nonpayment of any charge for any service rendered to the customer,
including, but not limited to, all charges as set forth in this chapter;
      7.   Refusal of reasonable access to the premises for purpose of
inspecting, reading, repairing or removal of services;
      8.   Violation or refusal to comply with any applicable provision of
these rules, regulations and conditions of service. In this regard violation of
any provision of this title, including, but not limited to, all provisions
concerning use of public sewers and connection of suitable toilet facilities
thereto, can, at the option of the City, result in discontinuance of water
service as set forth in this chapter;
      9.   Failure to repair any defect or leak in service pipe within five (5)
days after discovery.
   B.   Procedures: The City Clerk, or other authorized City officer, shall
follow the following guidelines in terminating water service due to nonpayment
or other violation of the provisions of this title:
      1.   If a bill or charge is not paid in full within ten (10) days after
the due date, a letter communicating the delinquency in addition to any other
current bill owed to the City will be sent by regular U.S. mail to the address
of the premises as set forth in the City water records. This notice shall
inform the property owner or the customer, whichever the case might be, of the
amount due. This payment is due within seven (7) business days from the notice
being sent or the water can be shut off without further notice.
      2.   The notice sent to the property owner or customer shall inform the
owner or customer of their right, if they so request, to a hearing before the
City Sewer and Water Commissioner or his or her designee by phone or in person,
prior to the water being turned off. The owner or customer will need to make
accommodations to be present for a hearing at the time set forth by City Sewer
and Water Commissioner or his or her designee. No exceptions or continuances
will be allowed. The party requesting the hearing must provide valid and
correct contact information.
      3.   The hearing will be an opportunity for the property owner or
customer to apprise the City Sewer and Water Commissioner of any extenuating
circumstances preventing the owner or customer from making a timely payment.
Such hearing will normally be held by phone but can be done in person, if
requested. After a hearing, the City Sewer and Water Commissioner or designee
will determine whether termination of service is proper, whether forbearance of
termination of service is proper, or whether such circumstances warrant
financial accommodation for the property owner or customer. In the event
financial accommodation is determined advisable, such matter will be brought
before the full Council for a resolution to be passed by the majority.
      4.   Payment of any past due bill must be made in full unless indicated
otherwise by a full resolution passed by the City Council. No installment
payments will be accepted.
      5.   In the event of a reconnection of service after service
discontinuance due to any of the reasons or conditions set forth in subsection
A. of this section, a seventy five dollar ($75.00) reconnection fee shall be
paid prior to reconnection for the first violation of subsection A. In the
event reconnection is required for a user within the calendar year from such
first violation, the reconnection fee will be one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
will continue be to one hundred dollars ($100.00) for every subsequent
violation thereafter. (Ord. 544, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 760, 1-28-2019; Ord. 770,
9-23-2019)
8-2-13: LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   In addition to any other remedy, charges for water and sewer service
shall be a lien upon the premises as provided by statute. Whenever a bill for
water or sewer service remains unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been
rendered, the City Clerk may file with the Recorder of Deeds of McLean County a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises serviced, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the
City claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for water and
sewer service subsequent to the period covered by the unpaid bill, plus
recording fees and legal fees for preparation and foreclosure of the lien, as
allowed by law.
   B.   The thirty (30) days' notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises.
   C.   The failure of the City Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclosure of the lien for unpaid water bills as mentioned in
subsection D of this section.
   D.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water or sewer service charges
shall, after proper statutory and judicial procedures, be sold for nonpayment
of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deduction of costs and fees, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens.
   E.   The City Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such
foreclosure or other proceedings, including, but not limited to, small claims
actions, in the name of the City, in any court having jurisdiction over such
matters, against any property for which a water bill has remained unpaid sixty
(60) days after it has been rendered. Where the City Clerk or City Attorney
believes that a collection letter may be helpful in collecting a past due bill
for a customer who has left the City, the City Attorney may write such letter.
However, no small claim actions will be filed or other collection procedures
initiated without the authorization of the City Water and Sewer Commissioner.
(Ord. 544, 4-14-2008)
8-2-14: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be fined as provided in
the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day in which any such violation continues is deemed a
separate offense. In addition the City may file a small claim action in Circuit
Court for the amount of the unpaid charges, costs and fees, and may avail
itself of the remedies as set forth in the involuntary service discontinuance
and lien section herein. (Ord. 544, 4-14-2008)
8-2-15: DEPOSITS:
   A.   All new water/wastewater customers shall be required to make a deposit
with the City to their utility account prior to receiving any water/wastewater
service. Upon application, all new customers must indicate whether the service
is requested for rental property or property owned. A new customer is defined
as a person who does not have an existing utility account in good standing with
the City of Chenoa or a person who has had service reconnected after
disconnection due to delinquent utility bill payments.
   B.   The new customer deposit shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
water/wastewater service.
   C.   Upon the closure of any water/wastewater account, any deposit shall be
reimbursed to the then owner of the water/wastewater account within thirty (30)
days of the closure of the account and upon the following conditions:
      1.   In event there is no unpaid balance on the account, the full amount
of the deposit, with interest, shall be provided to the account holder; or
      2.   In the event there exists an unpaid balance on the account, existing
deposit and any interest accrued will be applied to the account balance with
the remainder of such deposit and interest, if any, to be provided to the
account holder.
   D.   All utility deposits shall be held by the City in a separate interest-
bearing account.
   E.   In the event the applicant is an existing customer in good standing
with the City on other water/wastewater accounts, and has demonstrated a
pattern of making the required payments on-time for other existing accounts,
such applicant may petition the City Council for a waiver of the deposit
requirement.
   F.   “Good standing” for purposes of this section means an eligible account
holder who has not been late at least two times within a two-year period. (Ord.
845, 10-25-2022)
8-2-16: ACH ELECTION:
The City of Chenoa offers Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments to aid in the
payment of water and sewer service.
   A.   A constituent who is interested in setting up an ACH payment shall fill
out an application to enroll in automated payments which can be found at City
Hall or on the City website.
   B.   Once enrolled, customer will be charged a convenience fee of three
dollars ($3.00) which will be added each month to the water bill. (Ord. 817, 4-
27-2021)
CHAPTER 3
SEWERAGE SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-3-2: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-3-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Mandatory Connections:
      1.   Required: The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the city
is required, at his expense, to install suitable toilet and wastewater
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, no later than
September 30, 1982. (Ord. 147, 1980; amd. Ord. 174, 1982)
      2.   Accessibility To Public Sewers: Accessibility to the public sewers
of the city is declared to be properties abutting on any street, alley or right
of way in which there is located a public sewer main; provided, that such
public sewer main is within two hundred feet (200') of the property line or
building or establishment; and provided, further, that it is feasible that a
sewer connection can be constructed. (Ord. 147, 1980)
   B.   Drainage Connections:
      1.   Application For Connection:
         a.   Any person desiring to make any connection with the waterworks
and sewerage system or plant for their water service, or have the use thereof
shall first make application through the city clerk upon a blank form or forms
furnished by the city. With regard to such application and installation, the
following shall apply: The application shall contain an agreement on the part
of the applicant that all the rules, regulations, conditions and provisions of
any ordinance relating to the waterworks and sewerage system will be complied
with; that all water and sewerage rates, assessments and rents and fines and
penalties assessed, charged or imposed against the applicant upon the property
described in the application will be paid. In the case of new construction, the
application shall be made at the same time as the application for a building
permit as required in this code, and no building permit will be issued without
a permit hereunder having first been issued. When the applicant hereunder has
complied with all the provisions of the ordinances of the city, and the city
has approved the application, and all applicable permit fees have been paid, a
written permit shall then be issued by the city clerk authorizing the
connection to be made and specifying the size thereof. (Ord. 404, 5-22-2000)
         b.   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the permit and
inspection fee for any sewer service connection shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00), provided however that with respect to connections to sewer mains
privately owned and maintained in manufactured home districts, the permit and
inspection fee for such connections shall instead be one hundred dollars
($100.00). City inspections as set forth in subsection B1c of this section
shall still be required in such instances. (Ord. 406, 6-12-2000)
         c.   Prior to covering any sewer service lines after installation of
same, the applicant will notify the city, which will then cause the proposed
sewer service line to be inspected by a city representative. (Ord. 404, 5-22-
2000)
      2.   Discharges Of Plumbing Fixtures, Commercial Or Industrial Wastes:
The discharge from plumbing fixtures or commercial or industrial liquid wastes
shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer of the city and shall
specifically include basement floor drains.
      3.   Prohibited Connections: The connection of footing tile, area drains,
surface water inlets, downspout, yard or field drains or any other drainage
facility which receives ground water seepage or collected surface water to the
public sanitary sewers of the city is prohibited.
      4.   Maintenance And Repair: After installation, the owner shall assume
all responsibility for maintenance and repair of service pipe from the sewer
main to and including the building plumbing. The city may, in case of
emergency, repair any service pipes, and if this is done the cost of such
repair work shall be repaid to the city by the owner of the premises served.
All excavation and/or repair work on city right of way or property shall be
conducted by the city, which shall be reimbursed for the reasonable cost for
the work and for damages for injury or damage to the right of way and street,
by owner. (Ord. 147, 1980; amd. Ord. 307, 1994; Ord. 404, 5-22-2000)
8-3-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Connections Authorized:
      1.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions
of subsection
8-3-1A2 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
      2.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
8-3-1A2 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter and within the time frame established in
subsection E of this section. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   B.   Permits Required:
      1.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the McLean
County health department. The applications for such permit shall provide any
plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the McLean
County health officer.
      2.   The required permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the McLean
County health department at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspections: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
McLean County health officer. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the McLean County health officer when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of written notice by
the McLean County health officer.
   D.   Construction And Maintenance:
      1.   Comply With State Requirements: The type, capacities, location and
layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the state of Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act
and code 1  and with the state of Illinois environmental protection agency. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
      2.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facility in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the
city.
      3.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by the McLean County health officer.
   E.   Disconnection: When a public sewer becomes available, the building
sewer shall be connected to the sewer within one hundred twenty (120) days. The
private sewage disposal system shall be disconnected from the house connection
and the existing sewer system. (Ord. 147, 1980)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1.
ARTICLE A. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Permit Requirements
8-3A-2: Installation And Connection Costs
8-3A-3: Separate Connections Required
8-3A-4: Old Building Sewers
8-3A-5: Construction Requirements
8-3A-6: Excavations
8-3A-7: Drain Connections
8-3A-8: Drilling Requirements
8-3A-9: Extension Of Sewer Mains
8-3A-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City
Clerk. (Ord. 147, 1980; Ord. 163, 1981)
   B.   Permit Fee: Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the permit
and inspection fee for any building sewer permit for new construction which is
substantially completed after October 1, 1982, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 147, 1980; Ord. 163, 1981; Ord. 176, 1982; Ord. 178, 1982)
   C.   Permit Issuance: A building sewer permit will only be issued and a
sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3A-2: INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION COSTS:
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3A-3: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building,
except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building sewer from the
front may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3A-4: OLD BUILDING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may not be used in connection with new buildings unless
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3A-5: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   The building sewer shall be constructed of one of the following:
         a.   Cast iron soil pipe ASTM A/4 with rubber or neoprene joints;
         b.   Vitrified clay pipe ASTM C-700 with C-425 flexible gasket joints;
         c.   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe ASTM D3034 type PSM with standard
dimension ratio of 35 with solvent welded joints ASTM D2855 or flexible
elastome seals ASTM D3212, ABS composite pipe, ASTM D-2680 with solvent or
mechanical-type joints.
      2.   If more than one type of sewer pipe is used, it shall be connected
by tight and waterproof adapters especially designed for such joining and
approved by the Superintendent. All joints shall be watertight.
      3.   Size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches (6") and slope less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot.
   B.   Connection Elevation Requirements: Whenever possible, the building
sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement
floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in accordance with Section
8-3-1B of this Title, and discharges to the building sewer.
   C.   Connecting Branch Requirements: The connection of the building sewer
into the public sewer shall be made at the "Y" or "T" branch, if such branch is
available at a suitable location. If no properly located "Y" or "T" branch is
available, the owner shall, at his expense, install a "Y" or "T" branch in the
public sewer at the locations specified by the Superintendent. Special fittings
may be used for the connection only when approved by the Superintendent. The
applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent or his
representative. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3A-6: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Excavation Requirements: All excavations required for the installation
of the building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by
the Superintendent. All construction shall be in accordance with the Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, except that
no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in the manner satisfactory to the Superintendent.
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Chapter, if vitrified clay pipe as
per subsection
8-3A-5A of this Article is used for building sewers, bedding material shall not
be required below or around the pipe. (Ord. 147, 1980; Ord. 157 §1, 1981)
   B.   Excavated Area Protection:
      1.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
      2.   During the time of excavation and as long as an excavated area
remains open so as to act as a catch basin, any sewer tile or drainage outlet
designed to service the excavated area shall at all times be either capped or
furnished with a sufficient standpipe so as to eliminate the possibility of any
rain or surface water collecting or draining into the excavated area and hence
into the outlets and accordingly into the sewer system of the City. (Ord. 147,
1980)
8-3A-7: DRAIN CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   B.   Foundation Drains: Where foundation drains are installed to serve a
building, they shall discharge to a sump which is equipped with a sump pump of
proper size and capacity. The sump pump discharge shall terminate on the ground
surface a minimum distance of ten feet (10') from the building. The sump pump
may be discharged to a road ditch, storm sewer or tile, if one is available to
the property, in a manner approved by the Superintendent. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3A-8: DRILLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section, the following terms are
defined as follows:
   APPLICABLE WELL: Any well which provides water either for more than four (4)
families or for commercial or irrigation use, and which has a depth in excess
of two hundred fifty feet (250').
   FOUR-MILE RADIUS: Within four (4) miles of any portion of the City limits of
Chenoa.
   B.   Drilling Permit: Any person, individual, municipality or other entity,
governmental or otherwise, shall be prohibited from drilling any applicable
wells within a four (4) mile radius of the City without first obtaining a
permit from the City Council.
   C.   Impact Statement: Any person or entity wishing to drill an applicable
well, shall first apply for a permit from the City Council. The applicant shall
supply to the City Council an impact statement along with the application for
permit, which shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer in
Illinois licensed by the Department of Education and showing in detail the type
of well construction, including, but not limited to, the depth, the proposed
formation into which they propose to drill, whether the well will be cased, the
intended use of the water and the amount expected to be pumped daily, weekly,
monthly and annually.
   D.   Reporting Well Data: Any person or entity obtaining a permit to drill a
well within that area shall report to the City Council all data concerning the
drilling of said well, including, but not limited to, its depth, capacity,
water level, draw down and any other information requested by said City
Council.
   E.   Stop Order: The City Council may at any time require any person
drilling an applicable well with its permission to cease drilling or if the
well is drilled and is in production to cease the use of said well, if, in the
opinion of the City Council the well may diminish or pollute the City water
supply.
   F.   Violations, Penalty: Any person or entity drilling an applicable well
for water, or any well for any other purpose including, but not limited to, oil
wells and gas wells within the territory of a four (4) mile radius of the City
without a permit from the City Council shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The continued operation of
drilling and/or pumping a well without permission from the City Council shall
be deemed a separate offense for each day's drilling or operation and each day
the person or entity may be fined an additional fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
day. Continuing to pump or operate a well after notification from the City
Council to cease said pumping or operation shall also be deemed a misdemeanor
and subject to a like fine. Each day of pumping or operation after notice to
quit shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 258, 1990)
8-3A-9: EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS:
   A.   Expense Of Extension: The person desiring sewer service shall install
the extension at their own personal expense upon written consent by the City
Council and compliance with the following:
      1.   The City Council must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
      2.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
      3.   Ownership, rights of way and title must be conveyed to the City for
all extensions installed. The City will maintain the mains thereafter.
      4.   No extension will be permitted if in the opinion of the City Council
the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
   B.   Size And Construction Details: The size of the sewer to be built shall
be determined by the City Council, but in no case shall it be less than eight
inches (8") in diameter. All extensions to the public sewer shall be made with
vitrified clay pipe conforming to ASTM C-700 extra strength with ASTM C-425
joints or ABS pipe conforming to ASTM D-2680 with solvent or mechanical seal
type joints. Manholes shall be constructed at each change in direction
(horizontal and/or vertical) and not more than four hundred feet (400') apart
on straight sewers. Construction methods shall be in accordance with the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois
adopted by the City Council and on file in the office of the Superintendent.
All construction shall be subject to the inspection by the Superintendent or
other designated representatives. (Ord. 147, 1980)
ARTICLE B. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Prohibited Deposits And Discharges
8-3B-2: Restricted Substances
8-3B-3: City Council Action On Prohibited Discharges
8-3B-4: Grease Or Sand Interceptors
8-3B-5: Maintenance Of Preliminary Treatment Facilities
8-3B-6: Control Manholes
8-3B-7: Industrial Waste Treatments
8-3B-8: Storm Water Systems
8-3B-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-3B-1: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES:
   A.   Prohibited Deposits: It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or
permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable wastes.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: It is unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Prohibited Water Discharges To Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   All disposals by any person into the sewer system are unlawful
except those discharges in compliance with Federal standards promulgated
pursuant to the Federal Act and more stringent State and local standards.
   D.   Prohibited Discharges, Generally: No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastic, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3B-2: RESTRICTED SUBSTANCES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the opinion of
the City Council, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the City Council,
on advice of the Superintendent and consulting engineer, will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum
limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
   A.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F);
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty
two and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32° - 150°F);
   C.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
   D.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling, waste or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
   E.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or similar
objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the City
Council for such materials;
   F.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Council as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
   G.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the City Council compliance with applicable
State and Federal regulations;
   H.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
   I.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg at
any time except as permitted by the City Council in compliance with applicable
State and Federal regulations.
   J.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted by
the City Council in compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations;
   K.   Materials which exert or cause:
      1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate),
      2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions),
      3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works,
      4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in this Chapter.
   L.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3B-3: CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   If any water or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
8-3B-2 of this Article, and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA Rules and Regulations, subchapter D,
Water Programs, part 128--Pretreatment Standards, Federal Register volume 38,
No. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973, and any amendments thereto, and which in
the judgment of the City Council may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the City Council may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of the ordinance establishing charges and rates for the use and services of the
combined waterworks and sewerage system.
   B.   If the City Council permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the City Council and subject to the requirements
of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3B-4: GREASE OR SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3B-5: MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES:
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3B-6: CONTROL MANHOLES:
   A.   Installation: Each new industry shall be required to install a control
manhole and, when required by the City Council, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the City Council. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   B.   Sampling: All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics
of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this Article shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater chapter, published by the American Public
Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3B-7: INDUSTRIAL WASTE TREATMENTS:
   A.   Special Agreement: No statement contained in this Article shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City
Council and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the City Council for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, in accordance with Chapter 2 of this Title
establishing charges and rates for the use and service of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system, by the industrial concern; provided such
payments are in accordance with Federal and State guidelines for user charge
system and industrial cost recovery system.
   B.   Laboratory Analyses Required For Compliance:
      1.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this Article and any special
conditions for discharge established by the City Council or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
      2.   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the City Council, but, no less
than once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure the compliance with the
Federal, State and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the
results of the measurements and laboratory analyses to the City Council at such
times and in such manner as prescribed by the City Council. The owner shall
bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the
City Council. At such times as deemed necessary, the City Council reserves the
right to make measurements and samples for analyses by an outside laboratory
service. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-3B-8: STORM WATER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Use: Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewer as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the City Council. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the City Council, to a storm
sewer, or natural outlet. (Ord. 147, 1980)
   B.   Drainage:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, public or private, to connect
or cause to be connected, any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device
discharging polluting substances, to any open ditch, drain or drainage
structure installed solely for street or highway drainage purposes in the City.
      2.   This Section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, State statutes, rules and regulations concerning pollution and
shall not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part
of any ordinance unless in direct conflict herewith. (Ord. 300, 1994)
      3.   Any person violating this Section shall be fined as provided in the
general penalty in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each and every day during which a violation continues or exists.
(Ord. 300, 1994; amd. 2000 Code)
8-3B-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Privies And Cesspools: Except as herein provided, it is unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage and shall upon ninety (90)
days notice to the owner of the premises, be abated.
   B.   Tampering: No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or
negligently break, damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance
or equipment which is a part of the waterworks and sewerage system. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct. (Ord. 147, 1980)
CHAPTER 4
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Mandatory Connection To Public Water
8-4-2: Water Main Extensions
8-4-3: Turn-On Requirements
8-4-4: Water Service Connections
8-4-5: Service Connections Permit And Fee
8-4-6: Code Compliance Required
8-4-7: Service Pipes
8-4-8: Meters
8-4-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-4-1: MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER:
   A.   Private Systems Prohibited: No person having his residence or place of
business within the territorial limits of the City waterworks and sewerage
system shall be permitted to secure water for such residence or place of
business located in the City otherwise than through the water mains of the City
whenever the water mains of the water system of the City are adjacent to or
within one hundred feet (100') of any subdivided lot or parcel of real estate,
upon which the residence or place of business is located.
   B.   Mandatory Connections: In all cases where a public water main is now
installed, or hereafter may be installed in any street, alley, public way or
easement in the City, all inhabitants or users located on any lot or parcel of
real estate fronting, abutting on or within a distance of one hundred feet
(100') from the public water main to the nearest property line, of any such
subdivided lot, or parcel of real estate on any such street, alley, public way
or easement, shall at their expense make, or cause to be made, connection to
such public water main within three (3) months after the installation of such
public water main, if the same be not now installed. All users shall
discontinue, within the same period of time, any connection which they
theretofore may have had with any other private water supply. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-4-2: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS:
Any property owner or developer desiring to extend the public water main for
the benefit of his property may do so at his own expense. Minimum main size
shall be four inches (4") in diameter or larger where required by the master
plan on file with the City Clerk or where required by the future growth in the
vicinity of the extension. All construction shall be in accordance with the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, 2nd
edition. Pipe to be used shall be Class 150 cast iron or one hundred (100) psi
PVC pipe conforming to accepted current standards of ASTM 1784 (for schedule
40, 80 and 160 pipe), ASTM 2241 (SDR-DR) and No. 14 of the Sanitation
Foundation (NSF) and be appropriately marked as specified by the foundation.
Minimum acceptable pipe is one having standard dimension ratio of 21 (SDR-21)
and Type 1 Grade 1 materials with a hydrostatic design stress of two thousand
(2,000) psi for water at twenty three degrees Celsius (23°C) for a working
pressure of two hundred (200) psi. Joints shall be of the rubber gasket type.
All construction shall be subject to the inspection of the Superintendent or
other designated representative. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-4-3: TURN-ON REQUIREMENTS:
No water from the City water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person other than a person authorized by the City to perform
this service. No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances or codes of the City now in force
or which may be adopted. However, water may be turned on for construction work
in unfinished buildings, subject to the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 147,
1980)
8-4-4: WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Application: Applications to have water turned on shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk, on a form for that purpose provided by the City
Clerk. Upon approval thereof, the application shall constitute a contract
between the applicant as customer and the City, obligating the applicant as
customer to pay for the water service in accordance with applicable rate
schedules, and to comply with all applicable provisions of the rules,
regulations and conditions of service outlined in this title and as promulgated
in other ordinances and regulations of the city council.
   B.   Fees: A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid along with
the application to turn on the water, which fee will not be refundable, and
will be payable in all instances where water is to be turned on. In addition, a
further twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee will be charged in the following
instances:
      1.   Any turn on/off done after regular business hours;
      2.   Any turn on/off after water has been shut off for nonpayment or
other violation of city ordinance or policy. (Ord. 147, 1980; amd. Ord. 152,
1980; Ord. 302, 1994; 2000 Code)
8-4-5: SERVICE CONNECTIONS PERMIT AND FEE:
Connections with the water main shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of section
8-1-5 of this title. (Ord. 417, 3-12-2001)
8-4-6: CODE COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
With reference to the design, construction and installation methods of plumbing
systems, and adequacy of plumbing materials and fixtures required for plumbing
installations under this chapter, the minimum plumbing code of standards, as
amended from time to time, promulgated by the Illinois department of public
health is incorporated into this chapter by reference, to the extent that the
code is not specifically altered or amended by this chapter 1 . (Ord. 147,
1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 2 of this code for the plumbing code of the city.
8-4-7: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Installation: Except for private water lines, the city shall install
and maintain service lines to the owner's property line in accordance with
section
 8-4-5 of this chapter. The owner shall assume all responsibility for
installation, maintenance and repair of service pipe from the property line to
and including building plumbing. Such installation on the property of the owner
shall be under the inspection of the superintendent or his duly authorized
representative.
   B.   Materials: All service pipes to any meter on the premises from the city
mains at the corporation cock shall be of at least one hundred sixty (160)
pound test polyethylene or type E copper pipe to be approved by the
superintendent; and, after the same is installed, it shall, prior to closing of
the ditch and turning on of the water, be inspected and approved by the
superintendent. In addition, all service pipes to any premises shall be laid at
least four feet (4') below the surface of the grade lines of the street and
shall extend at right angles to and from the street main to the inside of the
curb line where a curb cock shall be attached and valve box placed. There shall
be a stop and waste cock placed on every supply pipe just inside the building
or cellar. Every connection or service pipe shall be laid with not less than
six inches (6") slack; such slack shall not be more than two feet (2') from the
main and laid in such a manner as to prevent settling. No service pipe shall be
laid in the same trench with any sewer, gas or other pipe.
   C.   Independent Curb Cocks: One tap and one service pipe will not be
allowed to supply more than one house or premises, unless such service pipe be
provided with separate and independent curb cocks and boxes at the curb line in
front of each house or premises. Except with permission of the city council,
each house trailer or mobile home shall be considered a separate house or
premises. In no case shall service pipe be allowed to run across lots, but must
be taken from the main in front of the premises.
   D.   Curb Stops: Curb stops and boxes shall be placed on every service pipe,
and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible,
and shall be protected from frost.
   E.   Excavations: Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the
same shall be made in compliance with the provisions of this code relating to
making excavations in streets. However, it is unlawful to place any service
pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drain pipe or sewer
pipe.
   F.   Inspection: All water meters, fixtures, connections and appurtenances
on private property connected with the waterworks system of the City shall be
open to the inspection of the proper officers and employees of the City at all
reasonable hours.
   G.   Repairs: All repairs for service pipes beyond the curb stop and
plumbing systems of buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owners
of the premises served. The City may, in case of emergency, repair any service
pipes, and if this is done the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the
City by the owner of the premises served. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-4-8: METERS:
   A.   Required: All premises using the City water supply must be equipped
with an adequate water meter furnished by the City and paid for by the
consumer; provided that such water service may be supplied by the City at a
flat rate of charge prescribed by the City Council until such meter may be
installed on new service. The City will provide a meter as provided under
Section
8-4-5 of this Chapter. On an existing service the City will provide, if not
already in place, a suitable meter for each customer's water service
connection. The City will determine the size and type of meter. The meter will
remain the sole property of the City. The customer shall be responsible for and
pay for repairs for any damage to a meter caused by freezing, by hot water
backing through the meter or by physical damage.
   B.   Placement Of Meters: The owner or customer will provide at his expense
a clean, dry, safe place, not subject to a great variation in temperature, so
that the meter will be properly protected from freezing and other hazards, and
so located as to control the entire supply and be easily accessible for
installation, maintenance, reading and disconnection.
   C.   Meters For Individual Trailers: For individual house trailers located
in locations other than trailer courts, meters shall be installed in fiber
meter pits at least thirty six inches (36") deep and eighteen inches (18") in
circumference within five feet (5') of the trailer, and with no less than
twelve inches (12") of rise to the valve meter yoke. Above surface installation
shall also be allowed, but such installation must be constructed so as to
prevent freezing, and with adequate openings to facilitate meter change. (Ord.
147, 1980)
   D.   Multiple Installations, Master Meters: For all meters which service
more than one trailer, dwelling or business, or combination of any two (2) or
more of the above, the owner shall pay only one minimum rate which is equal to
the current minimum rate applicable to such trailer, dwelling or businesses.
The excess of all water used over the minimum as defined herein shall be billed
as one billing in addition to the minimum. (Ord. 389, 8-23-1999)
   E.   Reading: The Superintendent or his duly authorized representative shall
read or cause to be read every water meter used in the City at such times as
are necessary that the bills may be sent out at the proper time.
   F.   Testing And Replacement:
      1.   Test Upon Complaint: Any municipal water meter shall be taken out
and tested upon complaint of the consumer, upon payment of a fee of ten dollars
($10.00). If upon test, the meter is not within three percent (3%) of being
accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and the fee returned to the
consumer. (Ord. 147, 1980)
      2.   Replacement Or Repair: The owner or customer is responsible for the
full cost of replacement or repair of a meter in the event proper protection of
the meter was not taken due to bad weather conditions (for example, freezing,
flooding, etc.) or other problems within the control of the owner or customer
that may occur. The City will determine the cost of such replacement or repair,
and such amount will be added to the customer's monthly bill, and payment of
same will be subject to the same requirements as set forth in City ordinance.
(Ord. 302, 1994)
   G.   Removal: The City reserves the right to remove and test any meter at
any time and to install another meter in place of the one removed.
   H.   Access To Premises For Inspection: The Superintendent and every person
authorized by him and all meter inspectors shall have ready and reasonable
access to the premises, place or building, where such meters are located for
the purpose of reading, examining, testing and repairing the same, and
examining and reading the consumption, use and flow of water, and it is
unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent or obstruct the
Superintendent or such other person or inspector in his work hereunder. Every
consumer of water shall take the same upon the conditions prescribed in this
Chapter. (Ord. 147, 1980)
8-4-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Fire Hydrants And Valves; Use Prohibited; Exceptions: No person shall
open any fire hydrant or draw water therefrom except the Superintendent and
persons under his direction, or with his permission, except in case of fire,
when the proper fire authorities, their officers and members, shall have free
and entire control of the hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fire. No
person or persons except the Superintendent and employees under his direction
shall open or close any valve or gate in any water main or street pipe, or in
any manner interfere with or obstruct the same. Any person desiring to use
water from a fire hydrant for construction or other purposes shall first obtain
permission from the City and shall be held responsible for all water used and
damages which may be done to such hydrant or other property, which may be
caused by unauthorized use.
   B.   Resale Of Water Prohibited: No water shall be resold or distributed by
the recipient thereof from the City supply to any premises other than that for
which application has been made and the meter installed, except in case of
emergency. (Ord. 147, 1980)
   C.   Cross-Connections Prohibited: Whenever a system of water supply piping,
either inside or outside of any building, receives its supply from any source
other than the waterworks system of the City, such system shall be kept
entirely separate from and no cross-connections or connections of any kind
shall be made with any pipe or system of piping which receives its supply from
the City waterworks system. Water which has once been used for any purpose
whatsoever shall not be returned to the building's water supply system. Any
person violating this subsection shall be fined as provided in the general
penalty in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day of violation shall be deemed as a separate
violation of this subsection. (Ord. 147, 1980; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Tampering Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to break the seal
of any meter, or in any manner to make any alterations, changes or repairs on
the same, or to open any mains, laterals, service pipes, stopcocks or valves,
or any part thereof, or otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any work on
them, without authority given by the City. (Ord. 147, 1980)
CHAPTER 5
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
ARTICLE A. PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Construction Specifications
8-5A-2: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-5A-3: Approval Of Connections
8-5A-4: Monitor Water System
8-5A-5: Inspections
8-5A-6: Discontinue Service
8-5A-7: Responsibility For System
8-5A-1: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
All plumbing installed within the City shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890 1 . (Ord. 246,
1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 2 of this Code for the Plumbing Code of the City.
8-5A-2: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Water Commissioner, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Water Commissioner will give
notice to the water customer to install such an approved device immediately.
The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device
at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code,
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations,
and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon
installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations. (Ord. 246, 1989)
8-5A-3: APPROVAL OF CONNECTIONS:
No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to
be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply of the City may enter the
supply or distribution system of the City, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall be approved by the Water Commissioner and Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency. (Ord. 246, 1989)
8-5A-4: MONITOR WATER SYSTEM:
It shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such survey and investigations shall be made
a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years,
or as often as the Water Commissioner shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord. 246, 1989)
8-5A-5: INSPECTIONS:
The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the City water supply for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Commissioner or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the City water supply for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Water Commissioner any information which he may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Water Commissioner, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this Article. (Ord. 246, 1989)
8-5A-6: DISCONTINUE SERVICE:
The Water Commissioner is authorized and directed to discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this Chapter is known
to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this Article, and until a reconnection fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) is paid to the City Water Department. Immediate disconnection with
verbal notice can be effected when the Water Commissioner is assured that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Water
Commissioner or the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, such action is
required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the
public water supply. Neither the public water supply, the Water Commissioner or
his agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages
or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water
supply in accordance with the terms of this Article, whether or not said
termination was with or without notice. (Ord. 246, 1989)
8-5A-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR SYSTEM:
The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or back-pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 246, 1989)
ARTICLE B. CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5B-1: Purpose And Policy
8-5B-2: Definitions
8-5B-3: Makeup Of Water System
8-5B-4: Cross-Connections Prohibited
8-5B-5: Survey And Investigations
8-5B-6: Protection Required
8-5B-7: Types Of Protection Required
8-5B-8: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-5B-9: Inspection And Maintenance
8-5B-10: Booster Pumps
8-5B-11: Violations, Penalty
8-5B-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination by
isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the public water supply
system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the City.
   C.   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Water Commissioner or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Water Commissioner shall give
notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at
each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install
such approved device or devices at his own expense; failure, refusal or
inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall
retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair as required in
subsection
 8-5B-5E4 of this Chapter for a period of at least five (5) years. The Water
Commissioner may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection
report to the City to assist in determining whether or not service line
protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be
conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 247, 1989)
8-5B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction intended
to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for backflow
prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system in considered to be a customer's water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
Direct Cross-Connection: A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
Indirect Cross-Connection: A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water tightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890 1 .
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and
appliances for a building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation
system of any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or
assemble from the point of connection of such building drain to the building
sewer or private sewage disposal system five feet (5') beyond the foundation
walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirement of 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not limited to:
Chemicals in solution or suspension;
Cooling waters;
Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquids and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes;
Polluted or contaminated waters;
Process waters;
Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes, streams or
irrigation systems;
Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a community water supply or a
noncommunity water supply.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross-connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian. (Ord. 247,
1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 2 of this Code for the Plumbing Code of the City.
8-5B-3: MAKEUP OF WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Water Commissioner up to the
point where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 247, 1989)
8-5B-4: CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency.
   C.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 247, 1989)
8-5B-5: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable
times to the approved cross-connection control device inspector for the
inspection of the presence or absence of cross-connections within the
consumer's premises, and testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection
control devices within the consumer's premises.
   B.   Furnish Information: On request by the Water Commissioner, or his
authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the
piping system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The
consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Water
Commissioner for the verification of information submitted by the inspection
consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection
inspection results.
   C.   Periodic Surveys: It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer
to arrange periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system
through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public
potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes
320/3(1).
   D.   Responsibility Of Water Consumer: It is the responsibility of the water
consumer to prevent backflow into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross-connections are removed, or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      2.   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions;
      3.   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
   E.   Testing And Records:
      1.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at least
annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
      2.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4(e).
      3.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
      4.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         a.   Date of each test,
         b.   Name and approval number of person performing the test,
         c.   Test results,
         d.   Repairs or servicing required,
         e.   Repairs and date completed, and
         f.   Servicing performed and date completed. (Ord. 247, 1989)
8-5B-6: PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the Water Commissioner, actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Water Commissioner and the
source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency;
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Water Commissioner;
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Water Commissioner and/or the cross-connection control device inspector are
not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey;
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the Water
Commissioner determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water
supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      2.   Laboratories;
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants;
      6.   Chemical plants;
      7.   Metal plating industries;
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      10.   Car washes;
      11.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks;
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 247, 1989)
8-5B-7: TYPES OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under subsection
8-5B-6B1, B2 and B3 of this Chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which
exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard;
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard;
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsection
8-5B-6B4 and B5 of this Chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   D.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
247, 1989)
8-5B-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Society of Sanitary
Engineering, or American National Standards Institute or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation to be in compliance with applicable industry
specifications.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site. (Ord. 247, 1989)
8-5B-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, test, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection
8-5B-9A of this Chapter.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Water Commissioner. (Ord. 247, 1989)
8-5B-10: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Water
Commissioner, at least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 247,
1989)
8-5B-11: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY:
   A.   The Water Commissioner shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Water
Commissioner, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Water Commissioner, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
   C.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Water Commissioner.
   D.   Neither the City, the Water Commissioner or its agents or assigns shall
be liable to any customers of the City water supply for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this Article, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
   E.   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   F.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article shall be
served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice permanently cease all
violation.
   G.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article in addition
to the fine provided 1 , shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by the City by reason of such violation, whether the same
was caused before or after notice. (Ord. 247, 1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-4-1 of this Code.
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Conformance To Regulations
9-1-2: Safeguard And Protect Persons And Property
9-1-3: Use Of Streets And Sidewalks
9-1-4: Fireproof Construction
9-1-5: Wooden Buildings
9-1-6: Construction Standards
9-1-6-1: Floor Loads And Wind Pressure
9-1-6-2: Working Stresses
9-1-6-3: Mortar Specifications
9-1-6-4: Cement And Steel Reinforcing Specifications
9-1-6-5: Bearing Limits Of Soils
9-1-6-6: Masonry Wall Specifications
9-1-6-7: Monolithic Concrete Walls
9-1-6-8: Private Garages, Height Limits
9-1-6-9: Beams Entering Walls
9-1-6-10: Chimneys
9-1-6-11: Stair And Elevator Shafts
9-1-6-12: Egress Requirements
9-1-6-13: Fire Escapes
9-1-7: Nighttime Construction Operations
9-1-8: Fuel Storage Tanks
9-1-1: CONFORMANCE TO REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Regulations: It is unlawful to construct or alter any building
or structure in the City except upon compliance with the provisions of this
Title, and it shall further be the responsibility of the contractor to comply
with all provisions of this Title and County, State and Federal building
regulations. Municipal inspection is required upon the appointment of a duly
appointed building officer by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(1964 Code § 283; Ord. 110, 1977)
   B.   Single-Family Dwellings: The minimum requirements for the construction
of single-family dwellings shall be governed by the recommendations in the
latest report of the Building Code Committee of the United States Department of
Commerce, published under the title of Recommended Minimum Requirements for
Small Dwelling Construction, and the City's zoning provisions 1 . (1964 Code §
295)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
9-1-2: SAFEGUARD AND PROTECT PERSONS AND PROPERTY:
It shall be the duty of the person doing any construction, altering or wrecking
work in the City to do the same with proper care for the safety of persons and
property. Warnings, barricades and lights shall be maintained wherever
necessary for the protection of pedestrians or traffic, and temporary roofs
over sidewalks shall be constructed whenever there is danger from falling
articles or materials to pedestrians. (1964 Code § 306)
9-1-3: USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Street Use: The use of streets for the storage of materials in the
process of construction or alteration of a building or structure may be granted
where the same will not unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the
usable width of the roadway to less than eighteen feet (18'); no portion of the
street other than that directly abutting on the premises on which work is being
done shall be used excepting with the consent of the owner or occupant of the
premises abutting on said portion. Any person seeking to make such use of the
street shall file an application for a permit therefor with the City Clerk,
together with a bond with sureties to be approved by the City Clerk to
indemnify the City for any loss or damage which may be incurred by such
occupation. (1964 Code § 303)
   B.   Sidewalk Obstruction, Removal: No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the
course of building construction or alteration without a special permit from the
City Clerk; and whenever removal of a sidewalk is required in such work, a
special permit from the City Clerk shall be obtained. (1964 Code § 305)
9-1-4: FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Definition: The term "fireproof construction," as used in Chapters 1,
5, 8 and 9 of this Title, means a building in which all of the parts that carry
loads or resist strains, and all exterior walls and all interior walls or
partitions and all stairways and elevator enclosures are made of incombustible
material, and in which all metallic structural members are protected against
the effects of fire by being completely embedded in a material which shall be
entirely incombustible and a slow heat conductor.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   If the metal framework of a roof is not less than twenty five feet
(25') above any floor or balcony, the roof framework may be protected by a
suspended ceiling of metal lath and Portland cement plaster, not less than one
inch (1") thick.
      2.   The fireproof covering on columns shall be not less than two inches
(2") thick if of concrete or gunite, or three inches (3") thick if of other
than approved material; on girders, not less than two inches (2") thick; and
other structural parts, not less than one and one-half inches (11/2") inches
thick. The thickness shall be outside the extreme edges of the structural
members. The following building materials, systems, units and forms of
construction, assembled and constructed or hereinafter required, shall be
accepted as fireproof construction:
         a.   Plain or reinforced concrete;
         b.   Reinforced gunite;
         c.   Precast reinforced concrete units;
         d.   Hollow or solid concrete masonry units;
         e.   Brick (clay, sand-lime or concrete);
         f.   Hollow brick (clay, sand-lime or concrete);
         g.   Plain or reinforced gypsum;
         h.   Precast reinforced gypsum units;
         i.   Hollow or solid gypsum block;
         j.   Hollow clay tile;
         k.   Metal lath and Portland cement plaster
The order in which the foregoing materials are placed in the list is not to be
construed as indicating their relative fireproof qualities.
      3.   All fire-resistive construction laid in units or blocks such as
brick and hollow or concrete or clay tile, shall be solidly bedded and laid in
Portland cement or cement-lime mortar as defined in Section
9-1-6-3 of this Chapter on mortar, and shall be thoroughly bonded together by
means of broken joints in alternate courses, or by sufficient metal ties or
bands; provided, however, that gypsum products shall be laid in gypsum mortar.
(1964 Code § 285)
   C.   Hazardous Uses: Any building or structure intended to be used wholly or
in part as a theater, auditorium, public garage or school, shall be constructed
according to the specifications for fireproof construction set forth in this
Chapter. Any building intended to be used as a hospital and which is more than
one story in height shall be of fireproof construction, and any building to be
used for storage of explosives or flammable liquids or for storing
nitrocellulose, or for a dry-cleaning establishment, foundry or coffee roaster,
shall be of fireproof construction. (1964 Code § 284)
9-1-5: WOODEN BUILDINGS:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   No wooden building hereafter erected or altered outside the fire
limits shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30') in
height.
      2.   No wooden frame building hereafter erected for any occupancy other
than grain elevators, coal elevators and pockets, and ice houses, shall cover a
ground area exceeding the following:
 
One-story buildings          7,500 square feet
Two-story buildings or two   5,000 square feet
and one-half story buildings
 
      3.   In no case shall a wooden frame building be erected within five feet
(5') of the side or rear lot line, nor within ten feet (10') of any other
building unless the space between the studs on each side is filled solidly with
not less than three and one-half inches (31/2") of masonry or plain concrete or
other equivalent incombustible material.
      4.   Buildings with wooden framework clad with sheet metal, covered with
stucco and veneered with brick, shall be classified as wood frame buildings.
(1964 Code § 286)
   B.   Grain Elevators And Ice Houses: Any grain elevator building or ice
house may be constructed of wood if the exterior walls and roof are covered by
an envelope of incombustible material and if the first story walls of grain
elevators are built of masonry not less than twenty inches (20") thick or
reinforced concrete not less than twelve inches (12") thick. The structure
above the first story wall shall be anchored to such wall with three-fourths
inch (3/4") bolts spaced not more than six feet (6') apart. Each corner of the
structure shall be further reinforced with iron rods not less than one inch
(1") from the first story wall to a depth of not less than sixty inches (60").
The roof plates shall be fastened down with nuts and washers. All window frames
and sash in the superstructure shall be of metal. The openings shall be
protected by wire grating of number fourteen (14) gauge, with meshes not
exceeding one-half inch (1/2"). The openings in the body of the building and in
the engine house shall have suitable metal shutters. (1964 Code § 287)
9-1-6: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
9-1-6-1: FLOOR LOADS AND WIND PRESSURE:
   A.   The design for all buildings and other structures shall conform to good
engineering practice. The following tables give the minimum uniform live loads
in pounds per square foot which shall be used in the design of buildings,
except that the specified live loads (but not the roof or sidewalk loads) may
be reduced by twenty percent (20%) in buildings of fireproof construction:
Type Of Building Pounds Per
                 Square Foot
Type Of Building                                                    Pounds Per
                                                                    Square Foot
Theaters, assembly halls and other places of assemblage:
Auditoriums with fixed seats                                        70
Lobbies, passageways, stairways and auditoriums or places of        100
assemblage without fixed seats
Dance halls                                                         100
Theater stage                                                       150
School buildings, libraries and museums:
Classrooms for similar use                                          60
Corridors, lavatories and similar public parts of the buildings     80
Hotels, dwellings, apartments, and tenement houses, clubhouses,
hospitals, and places of detention:
Dwellings                                                           40
Private rooms and apartments                                        40
Public corridors, offices, lobbies, dining rooms, etc.              80
Office buildings:
First floor                                                         100
Corridors and other public places above first floor                 80
Office space above first floor                                      50
Grandstands                                                         100
All stairs                                                          100
Garages:
All types of vehicles                                               100
Passenger cars only                                                 80
Workshops, factories and mercantile establishments:
Not less than
(In warehouses, workshops, factories, and mercantile establishments
for the sale, storage or manufacture of heavy merchandise or        100
machinery, the floors shall be designed to carry all loads safely,
including the allowance of at least 25% for vibration where
vibration occurs.)
Roofs                                                               30
Sidewalks
(Where the maximum floor load is more than 250 pounds a square
foot, the sidewalk abutting the building must be designed to carry  250
safely such maximum load. Concentrated,partial and eccentric
loading shall also be provided for.)
 
   B.   Except in buildings for storage purposes, the following reductions in
assumed total live floor loads are permissible in designing the columns, piers,
walls, foundations, trusses and girders. Reduction of total live loads carried:
 
Carrying 1 floor          0%
Carrying 2 floors         10%
Carrying 3 floors         20%
Carrying 4 floors         35%
Carrying 5 floors         40%
Carrying 6 floors         45%
Carrying 7 or more floors 50%
 
   C.   Building and other structures shall be designed to resist a horizontal
wind pressure of twenty (20) pounds on every square foot of surface that is
exposed, in addition to the dead loads and the live loads specified above in
this Section.
   D.   If the overturning moment due to wind pressure exceeds seventy five
percent (75%) of the moment of stability of the structure due to dead load
only, the structure shall be anchored to its foundations, which shall be
sufficient weight to ensure the stability of the structure. Sufficient diagonal
bracing or rigid connections between the uprights and horizontal structural
members shall be provided to resist distortion. (1964 Code § 288)
9-1-6-2: WORKING STRESSES:
Proportioning of the various load-carrying parts of buildings and structures
shall be governed by working stresses conforming to good engineering practice
as set forth in the 1943 edition of the Building Code, recommended by the
National Board of Fire Underwriters, except in cases where the recommendations
are in conflict with the specific requirements of this Chapter. (1964 Code §
289)
9-1-6-3: MORTAR SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Portland cement mortar used in laying up masonry shall be mixed in the
proportion of one part of Portland cement to not more than three (3) parts of
sand, by volume. Hydrated lime or lime putty may be added not to exceed fifteen
percent (15%) by volume of the Portland cement.
   B.   Cement-lime mortar shall be mixed in the proportion of one part or
hydrated lime or lime putty to not more than six (6) parts of sand by volume.
   C.   Lime mortar shall be mixed in the proportions of one part of Portland
cement added to the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the volume of the lime.
(1964 Code § 290)
9-1-6-4: CEMENT AND STEEL REINFORCING SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Portland cement shall conform to the Standard Specifications and Tests
for Portland Cement adopted by the American Society for Testing Materials,
published in pamphlet form as C150-44.
   B.   Steel used as reinforcement for concrete shall conform to the
specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials, "Standard on
Cement," 1944 edition. (1964 Code § 291)
9-1-6-5: BEARING LIMITS OF SOILS:
In the absence of tests, the different soils, excluding mud and quicksand,
shall be assumed to sustain safely the following loads per square foot, and
footings shall be provided under all walls and columns where required to keep
the pressure on the soil within the limits specified in this Section:
 
Type Of Soil                       Load Limit In Tons
Soft clay                          1
Firm clay, fine sand, or layers of  
sand clay (wet condition)          2
Clay or fine sand, firm and dry    3
Hard clay, coarse sand, gravel     4
Soft rock, shale and hardpan       8 to 15
Rock                               15 to 72
 
(1964 Code § 292)
9-1-6-6: MASONRY WALL SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Masonry is that form of construction in which noncombustible masonry
units such as stone, brick, concrete block or tile, hollow clay tile, gypsum
block or other similar materials or building units or a combination of these
materials are laid up unit by unit and set in mortar. The minimum permissible
thickness of walls and partitions of masonry, and the quality of these
materials, shall conform to The American Standard Building Code Requirements
for Masonry, 1944 Edition, published by the National Bureau of Standards of the
United States Department of Commerce.
   B.   Masonry bearing walls, party walls, fire walls, fire division walls,
exterior panel walls, enclosure walls or curtain walls, eight inches (8") or
less in thickness, must be laid in Portland cement or cement-lime mortar as
defined in Section
9-1-6-3 of this Chapter (1964 Code § 293)
9-1-6-7: MONOLITHIC CONCRETE WALLS:
   A.   Monolithic concrete walls having less than two-tenths of one percent
(0.2%) of reinforcing steel shall be considered as plain concrete walls and the
thickness of single bearing walls of plain concrete shall be in accordance with
the recommendations in the report of the American Standard Building Code
Requirements for Masonry, 1944 Edition, published by the National Bureau of
Standards of the United States Department of Commerce.
   B.   Subject to the other requirements of this Chapter, reinforced concrete
bearing walls shall have a thickness of not less than six inches (6") for the
top story with a thickness of succeeding lower stories including basement,
increasing at the rate of one inch (1") for each two (2) stories.
   C.   In such walls the amount of reinforcement shall be at least two-tenths
of one percent (0.2%) in each direction, horizontal and vertical, the steel
being equally distributed on each face of the wall within a maximum bar spacing
of twenty four inches (24").
   D.   The combined thickness of the separate parts of double or triple
monolithic walls shall be not less than that required for single walls, and no
single section of a double or triple wall shall be less than four inches (4")
thick. The sections shall be tied together with three-eighths inch (3/8") round
or square, galvanized or tar-coated rods, with two inch (2") hooks at each end,
the rods to be spaced not more than eighteen inches (18") horizontally and
vertically.
   E.   Exterior panel walls supported at each story of skeleton construction
buildings shall be not less than five inches (5") thick of reinforced concrete.
(1964 Code § 294)
9-1-6-8: PRIVATE GARAGES, HEIGHT LIMITS:
No private garage shall exceed fourteen feet (14') in total height. (1964 Code
§ 296)
9-1-6-9: BEAMS ENTERING WALLS:
   A.   Where floor beams, ceiling beams, or roof beams enter a party or fire
wall from opposite sides, the ends of such beams shall be separated at least
six inches (6") by solid masonry or concrete. Such preparation may be obtained
by corbelling the wall or staggering the beams, but no wall shall be corbeled
more than two inches (2") for this purpose. The ends of all wooden beams
entering the masonry walls shall be cut to a level to make them self-releasing.
   B.   Openings in party or fire walls shall be provided with self-closing
fire doors or with positive means of closing the openings to prevent the
passage of fire. Doors in fireproof stair and elevator shaft enclosures and
coverings for hatchways in floors of all buildings shall be self-closing. (1964
Code § 297)
9-1-6-10: CHIMNEYS:
   A.   Chimneys for high-pressure boilers, furnaces used in manufacture, or
for other heating appliances where high temperatures are maintained, and all
isolated chimneys, shall be designed and built in accordance with good
engineering practice and so that the stress in every part thereof, due to
temperature changes, wind pressure and the weight of the chimney itself, shall
not exceed the safe limits specified in this Chapter for the materials used.
   B.   All ordinary chimneys which form a part of building construction shall
conform to the standards for chimney construction under the title concerning
chimneys as contained in the latest edition of the Building Code
Recommendations by the National Board of Fire Underwriters. (1964 Code § 298)
9-1-6-11: STAIR AND ELEVATOR SHAFTS:
The stair and elevator shafts of all buildings except private dwellings,
hereafter erected more than two (2) stories high, shall be enclosed
continuously by incombustible material, consisting of reinforced gunite not
less than two and one-half inches (21/2") thick, or of solid Portland cement
plaster not less than two and one-half inches (21/2") thick on metal lath and
metal frame, or of reinforced concrete not less than three inches (3") thick,
or of any fireproof material or construction that will pass the standard fire
test of the Underwriters' Laboratories for a period of at least two (2) hours.
The thickness in all cases must be sufficient to give rigidity. (1964 Code §
299)
9-1-6-12: EGRESS REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings, including single-family dwellings, more than one story high,
hereafter erected, shall be provided with at least two (2) means of egress from
the building, as far from each other as the plan of the building will permit,
or by a doorway in a fire wall leading to another floor area which is provided
with adequate stairs or other independent means of exit. No part of a floor
shall be more than one hundred feet (100') from an exit. (1964 Code § 300)
9-1-6-13: FIRE ESCAPES:
   A.   In addition to the exits otherwise provided for and required, every
building of more than three (3) stories which is used for residence purposes of
more than one family, or is used as a store, office or factory, and every
building of more than one story which is used in whole or part above the first
story as a theater, school or auditorium, shall be equipped with at least two
(2) metallic fire escape stairways leading from the roof to the ground;
provided, that an enclosed fireproof stairway of at least five feet (5') in
width which is equipped with fireproof doors, and the structure and shaft of
which are so constructed as to be independent of support from the rest of the
building so that they can stand alone, may be substituted for such outside
fireproof stairways.
   B.   The ground exit of all such stairways, whether enclosed or outside,
shall be in such position as to afford ready and immediate escape from the
immediate vicinity of the building.
   C.   It is unlawful to obstruct, or permit the obstruction of, any such fire
escape or stairway, or the entrance thereto, or the exit therefrom. (1964 Code
§ 301)
9-1-7: NIGHTTIME CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS:
No construction or altering operations shall be carried on in the nighttime if
the same are accompanied by loud noises. (1964 Code § 304)
9-1-8: FUEL STORAGE TANKS:
It is unlawful to install or maintain any fuel oil, gas or liquid gas tanks
unless such tanks and all equipment connected therewith are installed and
maintained in accordance with the regulation of the State Fire Marshal or any
other State agency having jurisdiction thereof. (1964 Code § 501)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Permits Required
9-2-2: Inspections
9-2-3: Testing Requirements
9-2-4: Standards And Specifications
9-2-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No plumbing shall be installed in any place in the City
unless a permit therefor is obtained.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the City Clerk and shall state thereon the name of the person or contractor
intended to have charge of the installation. (1964 Code § 335)
   C.   Fees: The fees for plumbing permits shall be two dollars fifty cents
($2.50) for the first unit and fifty cents ($0.50) for each additional unit
included in the system. A "unit" means a sink, bowl, shower, tub, wash rack,
urinal or other fixture. (1964 Code § 336)
9-2-2: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   New And Repaired Installations: In all buildings hereafter erected,
both public and private, and in all buildings already built or erected wherein
any plumbing is installed or wherein any sewer connected pipe shall be repaired
or changed on the sewer side of the trap, except for minor parts, the drain,
the soil, rainwater and other pipe or pipes connected directly or indirectly to
any drain, soil and waste pipes, and all traps shall be exposed to view for
inspection and testing by the plumbing inspector, and shall not be covered
until such test is made. (1964 Code § 339)
   B.   Contractor Compliance Requirements: It shall be the responsibility of
the contractor to comply with all provisions of this Chapter, and of the State
of Illinois Plumbing Code. Municipal inspection shall be required upon the
appointment of a duly appointed building officer by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council. (1964 Code § 337; Ord. 110, 1977)
9-2-3: TESTING REQUIREMENTS:
All plumbing fixtures installed shall be subjected to either the air or water
test, under the supervision of the plumbing inspector. (1964 Code § 338)
9-2-4: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Traps And Vents:
      1.   All plumbing fixtures installed must be trapped and all plumbing
shall be properly vented. Traps and vents shall conform to the specifications
approved from time to time by ordinance, and a copy of such specifications
shall be kept in the office of the plumbing inspector for examination by
persons interested.
      2.   Pipe used in plumbing work shall conform to such specifications as
may be approved from time to time by ordinance. (1964 Code § 343)
   B.   Connections:
      1.   Metal Connections, Tile Sewers:
         a.   All soil or waste pipes shall be connected to the tile sewer if a
tile sewer is laid within the building, and if the connection is made above the
ground or floor, by a suitable metal connection which shall make an airtight
joint without the use of cement, mortar, putty or other material, and which can
and shall be in view at the time of the final inspection.
         b.   The entire pipe fitting or piece which is used to connect the
iron soil pipe and waste pipe to the tile sewer shall be regarded as the metal
connection. Metal connections which can be removed from the sewer and soil or
waste pipes, after being in place, without removing a portion of the iron soil
or waste pipes, are prohibited. No tile sewer shall be used above the ground or
basement floor where a cement joint is exposed to the air. One of each of the
approved types of metal connections shall be kept in the office of the plumbing
inspector. (1964 Code § 340)
      2.   Outside And Underground Connections: Outside the building and
underground, the connection between the soil or waste pipe and the vitrified
tile sewer shall be thoroughly made with lime Portland cement mortar, made with
one part cement and two (2) parts clean sharp sand. An arched or other proper
opening shall be provided in the wall for the house drain to prevent damage by
settlement. The opening around the house drain may be filled with pure refined
asphaltum. (1964 Code § 341)
      3.   Sewer Connections: All drain connections with sewer pipes shall be
adequate in size to convey and allow the free passage of whatever waste may be
properly carried therein. All connections between metal pipes and between metal
pipe and tile sewers shall be made by a licensed plumber. (1964 Code § 342)
   C.   Separate Drains Required:
      1.   Every building shall be separately and adequately connected with a
public or private sewer when there is such in the street abutting on the lot
occupied by such building.
      2.   The entire plumbing and drainage system of every building shall be
entirely separate and independent from that of any other building; except,
where there are two (2) buildings on one lot, one at the rear of the other,
then if there is no sewer in the alley to which the rear building can be
connected, the sewer of the front building may be extended to serve the rear
building. (1964 Code § 344)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definition
9-3-2: Electrical Code Adopted, Inspector
9-3-3: Compliance Required
9-3-4: Permit Requirements
9-3-5: Inspections
9-3-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter:
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT: Conductors and equipment installed for the utilization of
electricity supplied for light, heat or power, but does not include radio
apparatus or equipment for the wireless reception of sound and signals, nor
ordinary household appliances, such as toasters, vacuum cleaners, washing
machines, and does not include apparatus, conductors and other equipment
installed for and by public utilities, including common carriers, which are
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission for use in their
operations as public utilities. (1964 Code § 329)
9-3-2: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED, INSPECTOR:
   A.   Code Adopted: Pursuant to the recommendations of the Electrical
Commission, there are adopted as safe and practical standards for the
installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment in the City, the rules
and regulations of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, as contained in the
code known as the National Electrical Code and as approved by the American
Standards Association and as last published.
   B.   Inspector: The building inspector shall act as and have all the powers
and duties given in this Chapter to the electrical inspector. (1964 Code § 330)
9-3-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to comply with all provisions
of this Chapter and the National Electrical Code. Municipal inspection shall be
required upon the appointment of a duly appointed building officer by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Council. (1964 Code § 330; Ord. 110)
9-3-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Issuance Rules: There are adopted as reasonable rules and
regulations governing the issuance of permits for electrical installation or
alterations the following:
      1.   Permit Required: It is unlawful to install or alter any electric
equipment or wiring without first securing a permit therefor.
      2.   Application:
         a.   Application for such permits shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk, and shall be referred by him to the electrical inspector.
         b.   Each application shall contain the name of the owner of the
premises to be served, the name of the contractor doing the work, and the
nature of the work to be done; where the work consists of new installations or
extensive repairs or alterations, plans and specifications of the work shall
accompany the application. (1964 Code § 331)
   B.   Permit Fees: The fee for electrical permits shall be paid in advance as
follows:
Permits for all electrical work except electric signs and fixtures       $3.00
Wiring for incandescent lighting, and motors of less than 1/2 horsepower 1.50
Wiring for arc lighting, and stereoptican and motion picture machines,   0.10
including switches, per outlet and in addition                           2.00
Motors of 1/2 horsepower or over, or heating devices of more than 600    0.10
watts plus, per horsepower in excess of 1/2 horsepower                   1.50
Fixture hanging                                                          1.50
Electric signs                                                           2.00
Each reinspection of any overhead, under- ground or interior wire or     1.00
equipment, per hour
Extra inspections made necessary on account of inaccurate or incorrect
information, failure to make required reports, or a similar reason, per  1.00
hour
 
(1964 Code § 332)
9-3-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The electrical inspector shall issue a certificate of approval after
each inspection in which the wiring or apparatus is found to be in compliance
with the terms of this Chapter and with the rules adopted hereby.
   B.   It is unlawful to use or turn on power into any wires or apparatus
hereafter installed for which a certificate of approval has not been issued
because the permit was not secured for installation or the work was not
completed according to the provisions of this Chapter. (1964 Code § 333)
CHAPTER 4
BILLBOARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definition
9-4-2: Enforcement Authority
9-4-3: Permits Required
9-4-4: Location Restrictions
9-4-5: Construction Specifications
9-4-6: Specific Sign Regulations
9-4-1: DEFINITION:
BILLBOARD: Any signboard or similar structure, the sole or primary purpose of
which is to be used for the display of advertisements or notices. (1964 Code §
315)
9-4-2: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to enforce the provisions of
this Chapter, and he is hereby authorized to do so. (1964 Code § 327)
9-4-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful to construct a billboard within the City
without having first secured a permit therefor from the City Clerk; provided,
that this Section shall not be construed to require a permit for the
construction of a billboard or signboard, other than a roof sign, the total
display area of which does not exceed fifteen (15) square feet; and, provided,
that no permit issued under this Chapter shall be construed to authorize the
construction or maintenance of a billboard which extends over any public
street, alley or sidewalk or other public place. (1964 Code § 317; amd. 2000
Code)
   B.   Application: Applications for billboard permits shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk. Each application shall state thereon the name of the
owner of the premises, the name of the person constructing the billboard, and
specifications showing the size, material and manner of construction of the
billboard. (1964 Code § 317)
   C.   Fee: The fee for a permit to construct any such billboard shall be
twenty dollars ($20.00). (1964 Code § 316)
9-4-4: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   BLOCK: That portion of the street between the two (2) intersections with
other public streets nearest the specified location on each side; provided,
that if, on either or both sides of such location, there is no intersection
within three hundred feet (300') of the center of the specified location, the
block shall be considered as terminating at a point three hundred feet (300')
from such center.
   STREET: Such highways as have been dedicated by either common law or
statutory dedication as public streets and are actually in use as such.
"Street" does not include or mean merely service highways which are commonly
known as alleys.
   B.   Billboards In Or Near Residence Districts: No person shall locate,
build, construct, operate or maintain any billboard in any block in the City
where a majority of the houses abutting on both sides of the street in the
block are used exclusively for residence purposes without having first secured
the written consent of the owners of a majority of the frontage abutting on
such street on both sides within such block.
   C.   Frontage Consents: Frontage consents, once secured and filed, shall not
be withdrawn and need not be renewed except on the construction of a new
billboard to replace the one for which the consents were granted; provided,
however, that where consents are required and have been obtained for the
construction of one or more billboards on any particular lot, additional
consents for any additional billboard on the same lot must be secured and filed
in accordance with the provisions of this Section. (1964 Code § 322)
9-4-5: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Wind Pressure Resistance: Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly
constructed so as to be able to bear a wind pressure of at least thirty (30)
pounds per square foot of area; provided, that billboards which are placed upon
roofs must be so constructed as to be able to withstand a lateral wind pressure
of forty (40) pounds per square inch. (1964 Code § 318)
   B.   Obstruction To Fire Escapes: It is unlawful to erect or maintain any
billboards in such a position as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or
door leading thereto, and no billboard shall be fastened to any fire escape.
(1964 Code § 319)
   C.   Height And Placement: Every billboard must be so constructed as to
leave an open space of at least two and one-half feet (21/2') between the
bottom of the display area and the ground. This open area may be filled with
lattice work, or other ornamental design which does not close off more than
two-thirds (2/3) of any square foot of such open area. Billboards constructed
on property on which there is a properly established building line must be
built entirely in back of this building line, and no permit shall be issued for
the construction of any billboard on any lot which is subject to a proper
building line restriction, if the billboard is to be constructed in violation
of the building line restriction. (1964 Code § 320)
   D.   Fireproofing: It is unlawful to construct any billboard of over fifteen
(15) square feet in area anywhere in the fire limits unless the face of such
billboard is constructed of noncombustible material. (1964 Code § 321)
   E.   Nuisance Billboards: Any billboard or signboard which is dangerous
because of insecure construction or fastening with resultant danger of falling,
or because it is an extreme fire hazard and in fact a nuisance, is declared to
be a nuisance and may be abated as such. (1964 Code § 326)
9-4-6: SPECIFIC SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   Roof Signs:
      1.   It is unlawful to construct any billboard on the roof of any
building or structure of any but incombustible materials. All such roof signs
or billboards must be constructed so that there is at least four feet (4') of
space between the billboard or signboard and the edge of the roof at all sides
and ends. It is unlawful to construct any roof sign or billboard on the roof of
any building which is unable to withstand the additional weight and wind
pressure imposed by such construction. All roof signs and billboards shall be
constructed and braced so that the supports of such signs or billboards shall
bear directly on the masonry wall of such buildings or upon the steel girders
which are supported by the masonry walls.
      2.   The metal supports and parts of every roof sign shall be thoroughly
and properly painted at least once each two (2) years unless they are
galvanized or otherwise adequately protected against rust and corrosion. (1964
Code § 323)
   B.   Illuminated Billboards: The wiring of illuminated billboards and
signboards must comply with the provisions of this Code relating to electrical
wiring 1 . (1964 Code § 325)
   C.   Billboards Against Buildings: It is unlawful to construct any
billboard, a majority of the display area of which is within four feet (4') of
any building, unless such billboard is constructed of noncombustible material.
(1964 Code § 324)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 3 of this Title.
CHAPTER 5
FLOODPLAIN AREA DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Permit Requirements
9-5-3: Permit Application
9-5-4: Duties Of The Zoning Administrator
9-5-5: Review Of Permit Application
9-5-6: Review Of Subdivision Proposals
9-5-7: Water Supply System
9-5-8: Sanitary Sewage And Waste Disposal Systems
9-5-9: Annexations And Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
9-5-10: Penalty
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including, but not limited to,
construction or reconstruction of buildings, installing manufactured homes or
travel trailers, installing utilities, construction of roads or bridges,
erection of levees, walls, or fences, drilling, mining, filling, dredging, and
storage of materials.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, new construction means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
PERSON: Includes any individuals, corporation, partnership, association, or any
other entity, including state and local governments and agencies.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the FIRM. After detailed ratemaking has
been completed in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map,
zone A usually is refined into zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30,
AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these
regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with
the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally aboveground. The
term includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers on site for more than
one hundred eighty (180) days.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: a) before the improvement or repair is
started, or b) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure regardless
of the actual work performed. The term does not, however, include either: a)
any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions or b) any alteration of a "historic
structure", provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure. (Ord. 416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve,
move, or demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a separate
permit for each building or structure from the designated responsible person.
   B.   No manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but
not limited to, buildings or other structures, fences, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, shall be commenced
until a separate permit has been obtained from the designated responsible
person for each change.
   C.   No manufactured home shall be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a separate permit for each mobile home from the
designated responsible person. (Ord. 416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file a permit application on a
form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to
the designated responsible person before the issuance of a permit will be
considered. (Ord. 416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-4: DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   The zoning administrator, hereinafter referred to as the responsible
person, is appointed as the "person" responsible for receiving applications and
examining the plans and specifications for the proposed construction or
development.
   B.   After reviewing the application, the responsible person may require any
additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter.
   C.   The responsible person shall review proposed development to assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of
the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334. (Ord.
416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-5: REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION:
The responsible person shall review all permit applications to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvements (including the placement of manufactured homes) shall
be:
   A.   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy,
   B.   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage,
   C.   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage, and
   D.   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding. (Ord. 416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-6: REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
The responsible person shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed
new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a flood prone
area, any such proposal shall be reviewed to assure that:
   A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area,
   B.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage, and
   C.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard. (Ord.
416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-7: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:
The responsible person shall require within flood prone areas, new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems. (Ord. 416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-8: SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
The responsible person shall require within flood prone areas:
   A.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into floodwaters, and
   B.   On site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 416, 1-22-2001)
9-5-9: ANNEXATIONS AND EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The city of Chenoa shall not approve any development located in a special flood
hazard area (SFHA) outside the corporate limits unless such development or plat
is in accordance with the following:
   A.   A floodplain ordinance legally adopted by the city of Chenoa that meets
the minimum federal (44 CFR 60.3), state and local requirements for development
within a special flood hazard area.
   B.   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated McLean County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Chenoa or that may be
annexed into the city of Chenoa are generally identified as such on the
countywide flood insurance rate map (FIRM) for McLean County dated February 9,
2001, prepared by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA). (Ord. 416, 1-
22-2001)
9-5-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 416, 1-22-2001)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Enforcement Authority
9-6-2: Maintenance Responsibility
9-6-3: Fire Appliances
9-6-4: Building Requirements
9-6-5: Public Assemblies
9-6-1: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his assistants to inspect all
apparatus to be installed, and their location, and to make or cause to be made
periodic inspections concerning the operation and accessibility of regular and
emergency exits in such public places. (1964 Code § 439)
9-6-2: MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
The owner, agent, occupant or person charged with the custody of any public
building, auditorium, hotel, theater, lodge hall or church, and in the case of
schools, the president of the board of education, or the person in charge
thereof, and owning same, shall be held liable for the equipment and
maintenance of such apparatus as is required in this Chapter for the
maintenance and safety of all exits, stairs, doors, windows or passageways.
(1964 Code § 438)
9-6-3: FIRE APPLIANCES:
   A.   Location And Number: The location and number of fire appliances shall
be as follows unless other locations are more accessible and convenient for
protection against fires:
      1.   Theaters:
         a.   Stage, two (2) one quart chemical hand extinguishers, and one on
each side of the stage, one two and one-half (21/2)-gallon chemical hand
extinguisher readily accessible, one five (5) gallon hand pump, one fire axe;
         b.   Foyer, two (2) one quart hand extinguishers, or a five (5) gallon
hand pump;
         c.   Manager's office, one two (2) gallon chemical hand extinguisher,
or a five (5) gallon hand pump.
      2.   Public Buildings, Auditoriums, Lodge Halls And Hotels:
         a.   Five (5) gallon pump and fire axe at or near main entrance on
ground floor;
         b.   Five (5) gallon hand pump at or near foot of all basement
stairways;
         c.   Two (2) pails in boiler room unless oil burner, then a two and
one-half (21/2) gallon special chemical hand extinguisher just outside boiler
room doors;
         d.   One quart chemical hand extinguisher on the stage; and
         e.   One quart chemical hand extinguisher in the lobby.
      3.   Churches:
         a.   One five (5) gallon hand pump at or near main entrance on ground
floor;
         b.   One five (5) gallon hand pump and fire axe in boiler room.
      4.   Schools:
         a.   One five (5) gallon hand pump and fire axe at or near main
entrance on ground floor;
         b.   Same at head of each stairway;
         c.   Same in boiler room. (1964 Code § 440)
   B.   Removal: It is unlawful to remove from its proper place any fire
apparatus or appliances except for inspection or in case of emergency. (1964
Code § 442)
9-6-4: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Doors: All public buildings which may be or are used for churches,
schools, opera performances, theaters, lecture rooms, hotels, public meetings
or similar purposes, or which may be or are used for the collection of people
for worship, amusement or instruction, and all buildings used for stores to
which the public is invited shall be so built that all doors which lead from
the main hall or place of assembly shall open outward, and all means of egress
for persons within such buildings shall be by means of doors which shall open
outwards from the main hall and from the building. All doors of schools and
educational institutions shall remain unlocked during school hours. (1964 Code
§ 443)
   B.   Exit Lights: In all theaters and public meeting halls, a red light
illuminating the word "EXIT" shall be kept burning over each regular and
emergency exit while the theater or hall is occupied by an audience or by
patrons. (1964 Code § 444)
   C.   Fire Drills: It shall be the duty of the principal or other person in
charge of pupils in every school in the City to establish and maintain a good
and efficient fire drill which shall be practiced at least once a month during
the time the building is used for school purposes. A written report shall be
made by the principal or person in charge of such building on each fire drill
held, and of the time elapsed from the first fire signal until the last person
was out. (1964 Code § 441)
9-6-5: PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Compliance Required: It is unlawful to hold, manage or conduct any
meeting or entertainment of any kind in the City, in any premises other than a
building constructed in full compliance with the ordinances and laws pertaining
thereto for auditorium, theater or lodge purposes, excepting in compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter. (1964 Code § 446)
   B.   Notice And Permit Requirements:
      1.   It shall be the duty of any person conducting, calling for or
managing any gathering in any premises other than a theater, lodge room or
auditorium building constructed as provided in subsection A of this Section, to
notify the City Clerk of the date of such intended use at least ten (10) days
before such meeting is to take place. Upon such notice the building inspector
shall inspect the premises to determine whether or not they comply with the
provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Any permit issued for any such gathering shall be subject to the
condition that this Chapter be fully complied with, whether or not such
condition is embodied in the permit. (1964 Code § 451)
   C.   Approved Premises, Nonflammable Materials: No such gathering or
entertainment shall be held or presented in any premises other than a building
as described in subsection A of this Section unless such premises have been
examined by the building inspector not more than three (3) days before the date
of such gathering and found to be free from fire hazard and suitable for the
purpose. No structure enclosed by a roof shall be used for such purposes unless
the same is constructed of nonflammable materials; provided, that tents or
structures covered by canvas or similar materials may be so used if such canvas
or other materials have been properly treated so as to be rendered fire-
resistive. (1964 Code § 447)
   D.   Seats, Exits And Doors:
      1.   Seats:
         a.   Any stands or rows of seats used in such premises shall be so
constructed as to be safe for the use designed, and shall be sufficiently
strong to carry the same weight and stress as is required for the construction
of the auditorium floors of theater buildings, not less than one pound per
square foot.
         b.   It is unlawful to admit to any such premises a number of persons
to exceed the number of actual seats maintained for their accommodation. (1964
Code § 449)
      2.   Exits: Adequate unobstructed exits shall be provided in all premises
used for such purposes to permit rapid egress of all persons attending, and
there shall be at least two (2) separate exits located at least thirty feet
(30') from each other. There shall be two (2) lineal feet of doorway or exit
space for each one hundred (100) people accommodated. (1964 Code § 448)
      3.   Doors: All doors or gates on exits from premises used for such
purposes shall be opened outward and no such exit shall be so constructed or
locked that egress from inside the premises is blocked. (1964 Code § 450)
CHAPTER 7
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Permits Required
9-7-2: Warnings Required
9-7-3: Interference With Utilities
9-7-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit, Application: No person shall move any building on, through or
over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the City without
having obtained a permit therefor from the City Council. Applications for such
permits shall be made in writing to the City Clerk and shall state thereon the
proposed route and the number of days it is intended that the building shall
occupy any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. (1964
Code § 308)
   B.   Permit Fee: Upon approval of the intended route by the City Council, a
fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each day or fraction thereof that it is
intended that the building shall occupy any such portion of any such public
place shall be paid to the City Clerk and the permit issued. An additional
payment of ten dollars ($10.00) for each day or fraction thereof over and above
the time stated on the permit during which any building shall occupy any such
public place shall be paid. (1964 Code § 309)
   C.   Bond: Every person applying for a permit under this Chapter shall
submit with his application a cash bond with a lawful corporate surety to be
approved by the City Council, conditioned on his compliance with all the
provisions of this Chapter, and agreeing to pay and holding the City harmless
from any claim which may be made against it by reason of the occupation of any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place by the building or structure
moved. (1964 Code § 310)
9-7-2: WARNINGS REQUIRED:
Wherever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is being
moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the Police Department so as
to warn vehicles and persons from entering that portion of the street so
blocked.
The person moving any building through the streets shall keep warning signs and
lanterns or lights on the building so as to guard against any person or vehicle
from colliding with it. (1964 Code § 311)
9-7-3: INTERFERENCE WITH UTILITIES:
   A.   Utility Wires And Cables: Wherever it is necessary to interfere with
wires or cables of a public utility in moving a building, the terms of any
special or franchise ordinance governing shall apply and the bond therein
specified shall be given. If no such terms apply, then the Commissioner of
Parks, Public Health and Safety shall estimate the expense of fixing the wires
and the bond to be given to cover such expense. (1964 Code § 312; amd. 2000
Code)
   B.   Fire Alarm Wires And Poles: When any moving building approaches any
fire alarm wire or pole which is endangered by the removal of such building or
structure, it shall be the duty of the mover to notify the Commissioner of
Parks, Public Health and Safety at least six (6) hours before reaching such
wire or pole so that they may be removed or cared for by the City authorities.
(1964 Code § 313; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 8
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: Nuisance Declared
9-8-3: Abatement, Notice
9-8-4: Requirements To Remove Or Rebuild
9-8-5: Fire-Damaged Structures
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
DANGEROUS BUILDING: As used in this Chapter means and includes any building,
shed, fence or other manmade structure which:
   A.   Is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which
may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the
occupants of it or neighboring structures;
   B.   Because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other
cause, is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or
fall of any part of such structure;
   C.   Because of faulty construction, age, lack of repair or any other cause
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
   D.   Because of its condition or lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure. (1964 Code § 278)
9-8-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building in
the City; and it is unlawful for the owner, occupant or person in custody of
any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition,
or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while it is or remains
in a dangerous condition. Any dangerous building in the City is declared to be
a nuisance. (1964 Code §§ 278, 279)
9-8-3: ABATEMENT, NOTICE:
   A.   Whenever the Commissioner of Parks, Public Health and Safety is of the
opinion that any building or structure in the City is a dangerous building, he
shall file a written statement to this effect with the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be served upon the owner thereof,
and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by registered mail or by personal
service. Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in a
dangerous condition, and that such dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that
the condition must be remedied at once.
   B.   The form of the notice shall be as follows:
To (owner/occupant of premises) of the premises known and described as
                                        .
You are hereby notified that (described building) on the premises above
mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by                                   .
The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
City shall proceed to do so.
   C.   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that the
dangerous building exists within ten (10) days from the time when this notice
is served upon such person by personal service or registered mail, the
Commissioner of Parks, Public Health and Safety may, upon orders of the Mayor
and City Council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous
building. (1964 Code § 280; amd. 2000 Code)
9-8-4: REQUIREMENTS TO REMOVE OR REBUILD:
   A.   Any frame building or structure within the fire limits of the City, as
hereinbefore prescribed by ordinance, which has or may be damaged by fire,
decay or other causes to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of the fair market
value as existed immediately prior to the casualty or onset of decay, shall be
torn down and removed, or rebuilt with nonflammable walls.
   B.   Upon written notice by the Commissioner of Parks, Public health and
Safety, to the effect that such building has been so damaged, filed with the
City Clerk, the City Clerk shall notify the City Council of the receipt of such
notice.
   C.   The City Council shall then appoint three (3) persons to determine
whether or not such building or structure has been damaged to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) of its value, as described above.
   D.   A copy of the notice of the appointment of this board of three (3)
persons to determine the damage shall be served upon the owner of the premises
by personal service or by registered mail at his last known address.
   E.   Such notice shall be in substantially the following form:
To                      
You are hereby notified that                 has determined that the building
owned by you at                     located within the fire limits of the City
has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to the extent of fifty percent
(50%) of its fair market value as existed immediately prior to the casualty or
onset of decay and that a board of three (3) persons has been appointed to
verify this finding, which board will hold its first meeting in City Hall on
the            day of            at the hour of          o'clock, at which time
it will determine whether or not this finding is correct.
If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove the
said building, or rebuild it with nonflammable walls.
   F.   If this finding is verified by the board, and it determines that the
building in question has been damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of
its value, as described above, it shall be the duty of the owner to tear down
and remove the building within twenty (20) days after the finding of such
board, or to remodel it to comply with the requirements for new buildings in
the fire limits, and it is unlawful to occupy or permit the occupancy of such
building after such finding until it is so remodeled. (1964 Code § 281; amd.
2000 Code)
9-8-5: FIRE-DAMAGED STRUCTURES:
   A.   Removal Of Fire-Damaged Structures: Any and all buildings within the
City limits which have been or may hereafter be damaged by fire or storm or
other casualty to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value
thereof as existed immediately prior to the casualty or onset of decay, shall
be torn down or removed from the City by the owner thereof within thirty (30)
days after being notified by the City to do so. (Ord. 327, 1995; amd. 2000
Code)
   B.   Boarding Buildings: In addition, the owner shall board up burned or
damaged buildings as necessary within seventy two (72) hours after the damage
is sustained, or, in cases where the fire marshal conducts an inspection or
investigation, within seventy two (72) hours after the fire marshal releases
the building to the owner.
   C.   Selection Of Impartial Board:
      1.   In order to determine whether or not such building has been so
damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of the value thereof, as described
above, the owner of any such building shall, if he does not believe the extent
of damage exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its value, as described above, within
ten (10) days after receiving notice by the City, notify the City thereof and
select a disinterested party to act for him. The City shall select one such
person to act for the City and the two (2) thus selected shall choose another
such person to act for them, and the three (3) persons so selected shall
constitute a board to determine the question and the decision of said board or
majority thereof shall be binding upon all parties concerned.
      2.   Oath: The parties so selected shall first take and subscribe an oath
that they will fairly and impartially estimate such damage and their decision,
when reduced to writing and filed in the office of the City Clerk, shall be
final.
      3.   Render Decision: The board shall act and render its decisions within
thirty (30) days of appointment of all members.
   D.   Notices: Service of notices herein shall be made upon the owner of the
building, or his agent or tenant, or in case no such owner, agent or tenant can
be found, such notice shall be posted on the premises.
   E.   Violation, Penalty: Violations herein shall be subject to the general
penalty provisions of this Code. (Ord. 327, 1995)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND PURPOSE 1
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
10-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as the CHENOA ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This Title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
   B.   To divide the City into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business, manufacturing
and other specified uses;
   C.   To protect the character and the stability of the residential, business
and manufacturing areas within the City and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   D.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   E.   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air and to protect the public health;
   F.   To establish building lines and the locations of buildings designed for
residential, business and manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein;
   H.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   I.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   J.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
City;
   K.   To provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which affect the character and value of desirable
development in each district;
   L.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein. (Ord. 123, 1979)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Zoning Definitions
10-2-1: ZONING DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, whenever they occur in this title, shall be
interpreted as defined in this chapter.
ABUTTING: One or more common boundary lines or district lines.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: One which is:
   A.   Subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use; and
   B.   Subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal building or
principal use served.
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, and
all such structures used as an outdoor display, regardless of size and shape,
for the purpose of making anything known, the origin or place of sale of which
is not on the property where such advertising structure is located.
AGRICULTURE: The growing, harvesting and storing of crops including legumes,
hay, grain, fruit and truck or vegetable crops, floriculture, horticulture,
viticulture, mushroom growing, orchards and forestry; farm buildings for
storing and protecting farm machinery and equipment from the elements; and farm
dwellings occupied by farm owners, operators, tenants or seasonal or year round
hired farm workers. This definition includes all types of agricultural
operations, but excludes therefrom animal husbandry and industrial operations
such as a grain elevator, canning or slaughterhouse, wherein agricultural
products produced primarily by others are stored or processed.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented for use in or
designed for navigation or flight in the air.
AIRPORT: Any area of land which is used or intended for use for the landing and
taking off of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or intended
for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities or right of way,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape or character of a building or structure,
or change in the use thereof.
AUTOMOBILE PARKING AND STORAGE: Any building or land used or occupied for the
purpose of parking and storage of motor vehicles, motor scooters, motorcycles,
and boats; provided, that if any such vehicles are inoperable, discarded or
salvage material, or if any such automobile storage lot contains two (2) or
more vehicles which have been incapacitated and immobile for more than fifteen
(15) days, then such land for purposes of this title shall be considered a
junkyard and shall be subject exclusively to the provisions of this code,
including, but not limited to, the zoning code, pertaining to junkyards and not
to automobile parking and storage lots.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease,
batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at
retail.
AWNING: A rooflike cover which projects from the wall of a building and
overhangs into the yard or public or private street.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building which is partly below and partly above
grade and having at least one-half (1/2) its height above grade.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by public streets, or by a combination of
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines or
waterways, the corporate limits of the city or other line of demarcation.
BREW PUB: An establishment where beer is brewed or manufactured with the
primary distribution of beer brewed or manufactured on the premises in an
adjoining restaurant where food is served.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The measurement of vertical distance from the grade to the top
of the highest roof beam of a flat roof or to the mean level of the highest
gable or slope of a hip roof.
BULK: A term used to measure, assess and regulate the impact of buildings,
structures or land uses on other nearby buildings, structures or land uses and
includes the following factors:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls and required on-site facilities at all
levels in relation to lot lines, public streets or to other buildings;
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   D.   All open spaces allocated to buildings;
   E.   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit; and
   F.   Type, amount and location of landscaping and site screening used to
shield or reduce the impact of land uses on surrounding property.
CARPORT: An automobile shelter, usually formed by extension of the roof from
the side of a building, which may be open on the sides.
CARWASH: A building or portion thereof containing facilities for washing motor
vehicles, using automatic production-line methods with a chain conveyor,
blower, steam-cleaning device or other mechanical devices, or providing space,
water and equipment for the handwashing of autos, whether by the customer or
the operator.
CELLAR: That portion of a building which is partly or completely below grade
and having at least one-half (1/2) of its height below grade.
CRAFT BREWERY: An establishment where beer is manufactured in quantities not
exceeding those prescribed by the Illinois Craft Brewer’s License. The
establishment may also include a tasting room and craft beer manufactured
onsite may be offered for sale at retail for use or consumption onsite or
offsite.
CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure which complies with
all of the regulations of this Title, or of any amendment hereto governing bulk
for the zoning district in which such building or structure is located.
CONFORMING USE: Any use which complies with all the regulations specified in
this Title or any subsequent amendment hereto for the zoning district in which
such use is located.
CURB LEVEL: For any building is the level of the established curb in front of
such building measured at the center of such front. Where no curb has been
established, the curb level is the elevation of the center line of the street
adjacent to the lot on which the building is, or is to be located, measured at
the center point of the lot frontage.
DAYCARE CENTER: A premises receiving more than eight (8) children for care
during all or part of the day or night.
DAYCARE HOME: A dwelling unit in which one or more persons provide care during
the day to not more than eight (8) children. The maximum of eight (8) children
includes all natural, adopted and foster minor children of the residents of the
dwelling unit, plus any other minors who are under full-time care or
supervision in the dwelling unit.
DISTRICT: A portion of the territory of the City within which certain generally
uniform regulations and requirements unique thereto apply under the provisions
of this Title.
DORMITORY: A residential building where group sleeping accommodations are
provided for persons not members of the same family and where the number
accommodated exceeds that allowed in a dwelling unit in the district. The group
sleeping accommodations may be in one room or in a series of closely-associated
rooms under occupancy and single management as in college dormitories,
fraternity houses, sorority houses, military barracks, etc., regardless of
whether meals are provided.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: A business or institution where the principal use is
either the offering of goods or services directly to customers waiting in
parked motor vehicles or carry-out food service.
DRIVEWAY: A private accessway for motor vehicles between a public or private
street and one or more structures, or off-street parking areas.
DWELLING: A building designed or used principally for residential occupancy
containing one or more dwelling units, including single-family, two-family and
multiple-family dwellings.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling
units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing one dwelling unit only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) dwelling units only.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms arranged or designed for the use of one family
living together as a single housekeeping unit with cooking, living, sanitary
and sleeping facilities in a self-contained unit.
DWELLING UNIT, ATTACHED: One which is joined to another dwelling unit on one or
more sides by a vertical party wall or walls.
DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED: One which is entirely surrounded by open space.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room together with
bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining area.
FAMILY: Either one person or two (2) or more persons, each related to each
other by blood, marriage or legal adoption and an aggregate of not more than
two (2) roomers or boarders not related to each other, whether or not
gratuitous, maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit; or a group of
not more than four (4) persons not so related maintaining a common household in
a dwelling unit.
FENCE: A structure other than a building or portion thereof which is a barrier
and is used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of privacy, protection or
confinement and is constructed of wood, plastic, metal, wire mesh, masonry or
comparable material.
FLOOD BASE ELEVATION: That elevation of the water level at the 100-year flood
level.
FLOODPLAIN: Any area on the special flood hazard map of the Federal Insurance
Administration designated as having special flood hazards.
FLOOR AREA: For purposes of computing off-street parking requirements, is
defined as the sum of the gross horizontal floor areas of a building. Areas
allowed to be deducted from the computation include spaces used for mechanical
and electrical equipment, stairs, elevators, interior parking areas, interior
loading docks and storage areas incidental to the main use.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained by dividing the floor area of a
building or buildings by the lot area on which such building(s) is located.
FRONTAGE: The measure of lineal contiguity along a public right of way as
measured along that right of way between a lot or portion thereof and another
lot, public street, alley or public way.
GRADE: A reference plane representing the average finished ground level
adjoining the building at all exterior walls.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The area of a building in square feet as measured in a
horizontal plane at the ground floor level within its largest outside
dimensions, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages and
exterior stairways, furnace and laundry areas.
HELIPORT: An area of land, water and/or a structure or building which is used
or intended for use for the landing and taking off of helicopters, and any
appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for heliport buildings or
other heliport facilities or rights of way, including all necessary pads,
helicopter storage and tie-down areas, hangars and other necessary buildings
and open spaces.
HISTORIC AREA: An area containing buildings or places in which historic events
have occurred, or which have special public value because of notable
architectural or other features relating to the cultural or artistic heritage
of the community which warrant conservation and preservation.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation or profession practiced by a member of the
family residing in the dwelling unit, which is clearly an accessory use to the
principal residential use of the dwelling unit and which is listed in Section
10-3-1 of this Title.
HOSPITAL: An institution where the sick or injured are given medical or
surgical care.
HOTEL, MOTEL OR INN: An establishment containing lodging accommodations
designed for use by transients, travelers or temporary guests. Facilities
provided may include maid service, laundering of linen used on the premises,
telephone and secretarial or desk service, meeting rooms and restaurants and
cocktail lounges.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: An area devoted to one or more light industrial uses, but this
definition does not include any buildings which are either storage warehouses
with light assembly or warehouses with or without offices.
JUNKYARD: An open area where junk waste, scrap, used equipment and vehicle
parts, discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap
iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles. A junkyard
includes automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but does not include uses established entirely within
enclosed buildings.
KENNEL: Any premises where three (3) or more dogs, cats or other household
domestic animals over four (4) months of age are owned, boarded, bred or
offered for sale.
LOT: A parcel, tract or area of land with access from an abutting street for
the full width of the lot, and which is occupied by or intended for occupancy
by one principal building or principal use together with any accessory
buildings and such yard area as is required by this Title. It may be a single
surveyed parcel separately described in a deed or plat which is recorded in the
office of the County Recorder, or it may include parts of, or a combination of,
such surveyed parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one. In
determining lot area and boundary lines, no part under water or within the
limits of a street shall be included.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side and rear lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE (PROPERTY LINE): A boundary line of a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary line of any lot which is along a dedicated
public street or the occupation line on a nondedicated public street. On corner
lots the front lot line shall be the boundary line along such street right-of-
way line that is established at the time of application for a building permit.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from the
front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the County Recorder of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds,
the description of which has been so recorded on the date of the adoption of
this Title.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) more or
less parallel public streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured within the lot boundary. Lot width shall be measured at the front lot
line or at the required setback line or cul-de-sac within the lot boundary
behind the required front yard setback line.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A lap-sided mobile home of at least one thousand (1,000)
square feet with a shingled gable or hip roof placed on a permanent or cement
foundation. Said mobile home must have the approval of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development as complying with the Federal Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards, containing the Housing and Urban Development
seal, or other evidence of Housing and Urban Development approval.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A lot or lands upon which two (2) or more independent
manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or for a fee, and shall
include any building, structure, tent vehicle or enclosure used or intended for
use as a part of the equipment of such manufactured home park.
MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a manufactured home park
designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
MOBILE HOME: A dwelling unit of vehicular, portable design, built on a chassis
and designed to be moved from one site to another and capable of being used
with or without a permanent foundation.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A lot or lands upon which two (2) or more independent mobile
homes are located, either free of charge or for a fee, and shall include any
building, structure, tent vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a
part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
MODULAR HOME: A dwelling unit intended to be used for residential occupancy and
designed to be located on a permanent foundation, and which conforms to the
definition of modular home under the provisions of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and address of a building or the name of
an occupant thereof and/or the occupation practiced therein.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this Title, or amendment
thereto, which does not comply with all the regulations of this Title or any
amendment thereto governing bulk for the zoning district in which such building
or structure is located.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot of record which, when recorded, met the minimum lot
area and other dimension requirements of the City Code, but which through
subsequent amendments to such Code or other acts of a public body has caused
the lot of record to be in conflict with the minimum lot area or other
dimension requirements of the Code.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any use of land, buildings, or structures, which use is not
permitted in the zoning district in which such use is located, but which use
was permitted at the time such use was established.
NURSERY (GREENHOUSE): A space, building or structure, or combination thereof,
for the storage of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for wholesale or retail
sale on the premises, including products used for landscaping and gardening.
NURSING HOME: A home for the aged, chronically ill, incurable persons or a
place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders in which three (3) or more
persons, not members of the immediate family residing on the premises, are
received, kept or provided with food and shelter or care, but not including
hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis
and treatment of disease or injury, maternity or mental illness.
OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (COMPREHENSIVE PLAN): The composite of the
functional and geographic elements of the comprehensive plan of the City, or
any segment thereof, in the form of plans, maps, charts, textual materials and
the official map, as adopted by the City Council.
OPEN SALES LOT: Any building or land used or occupied for the purpose of buying
and selling merchandise, motor vehicles, any form of trailers, mobile homes,
motorized homes, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats, aircraft, farm equipment
and monuments or for the storing of same prior to sale, and for related service
and rental; provided, that if any such merchandise or vehicles other than units
being repaired or serviced are inoperable, discarded or salvage material, or if
any such open sales lot contains two (2) or more vehicles which have been
incapacitated and immobile for more than fifteen (15) days, then such land for
purposes of this Title shall be considered a junkyard and shall be subject
exclusively to the provisions pertaining to junkyards and not to open sales
lots.
PARKING SPACE: A space within a public or private parking area which contains
minimum dimensions of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') of access drives or
aisles, for the purpose of vehicular storage.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building in which the principal use of the lot on which
it is located is conducted, including a building that is attached to such a
building in a substantial way, such as by a roof.
PRINCIPAL USE: A primary use of land or buildings as distinguished from an
accessory use. A principal use may be either permitted or special.
RIDING STABLE: The grounds and building where horses are bred, raised, trained,
boarded or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any residential building, or any part thereof, containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to more than
five (5) persons who do not constitute a family.
ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit used
or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
ROW HOUSE (TOWNHOUSES): A multiple-family dwelling containing three (3) or more
attached dwelling units, each on its own plot of ground and joined to one (end
unit) or two (2) (interior units) dwelling units by firewalls. Each dwelling
unit shall occupy the internal space from the ground to the roof.
SETBACK: The horizontal distance between the front lot line and any building or
structure located on the lot.
SIGN: Any identification, description, illustration or device, illuminated or
nonilluminated, which is visible from any public place or is located on private
property and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a product,
service, place, activity, person, institution, business or solicitation,
including any permanently installed or situated merchandise; or any emblem
printing, banner, pennant, placard or temporary sign designed to advertise,
identify or convey information, with the exception of window displays and
national, State, County, municipal and religious flags, including goods and
services, offered upon the property on which the sign is located.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A specific use of land or buildings, or both, described and
permitted in this Title, subject to special provisions and which, because of
its unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use,
as provided in Chapter 13 of this Title.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor
and upper surface of the floor or roof next above. A basement shall be counted
as a story and a cellar shall not be counted as a story.
STREET, PUBLIC: A dedicated and accepted public right of way or other public
way used and maintained by the City which, in either case, affords the
principal means of access to adjacent lots or property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as the addition,
removal or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected that requires location on or in the
ground or attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
Structures shall include slab concrete and asphalt located on the property and
additionally, shall include any permanent pool located on or in the ground.
TASTING ROOM: A room accessory only to a craft brewery where beer manufacturing
onsite is available on tap.
TOURIST CAMP: A residential facility designed, used or intended to be used to
accommodate the overnight temporary location, hookup or use of its facilities
for travel trailers and camp trailers.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and
shall include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
performance standards of this Title.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements and
regulations of such district.
VARIATION: A deviation from the bulk requirements of this Title as provided in
Section
 10-14-4 of this Title.
WAREHOUSE: A structure, part thereof, or area used principally for the storage
of goods and merchandise.
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or jobbers rather than consumers.
WINERY: An establishment where wine is manufactured onsite and offered for sale
at retail for use or consumption onsite or offsite. Not more than fifty
thousand (50,000) gallons of wine per year may be manufactured at a specified
location for such location to be considered a winery.
YARD: An open space, on the same lot with a building or structure, unoccupied
and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard which faces a public street.
YARD, FRONT: That yard, required or otherwise, extending along the full length
of the front lot line between the side lot lines from the front line of the
building or structure, including any overhang features, to the front lot line.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another lot.
YARD, REAR: That yard, required or otherwise, extending along the full length
of the rear lot line between the side lot lines from the rear line of the
building or structure, including any overhang features, to the rear property
line.
YARD, SIDE: That yard, required or otherwise, extending along the side lot line
between the front yard and the rear yard from the side line of the building or
structure, including any overhang features, to the side property line.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The person authorized by the city council to administer
this title.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The body authorized to enforce this title according to
the powers and duties listed in section
10-14-2 of this title 1 .
ZONING DISTRICT: A section or sections of incorporated territory of the city
for which the regulations and requirements governing use, lot and bulk or
buildings and premises are uniform.
ZONING DISTRICT MAP: That portion of this title showing all of the zoning
district boundaries within the city 2 .
ZONING DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT: The procedure set forth to change the zoning
district boundaries of the zoning district map portion of this title.
ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT: The procedure set forth to change the text or written
portion of this title. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 209, 1985; Ord. 230, 1987;
Ord. 294, 1993; Ord. 296, 1993; Ord. 688, 7-13-2015; Ord. 780, 1-14-2020; Ord.
848, 11-8-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 2 of this code.
2 1. See section
  10-4-2 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Home Occupations
10-3-2: Accessory Buildings And Uses
10-3-3: Property Development Standards
10-3-4: Improvement Location Permits
10-3-5: Manufactured And Modular Homes
10-3-6: Temporary Occupancy Of Mobile Homes
10-3-7: Fences
10-3-8: Temporary Wheelchair Ramps
10-3-9:    Shipping Containers
10-3-1: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Home Occupations: In all districts permitting residential
dwellings, home occupations shall be permitted as long as the home occupation
is incidental and secondary to the permitted residential use of the lot.
Permitted home occupations shall include:
      1.   Domestic crafts such as a seamstress, sewing, tailoring, weaving,
washing and ironing, carpentry work, barbershops (1 chair operation only),
beauty shops (1 chair operation only), repair of small household appliances and
offices used predominantly for personal, as opposed to business, use;
      2.   Music and dance instruction, limited to one pupil at any one time;
      3.   Private tutoring, limited to three (3) pupils at any one time;
      4.   Use of premises by a medical or osteopathic physician, surgeon,
dentist, podiatrist or chiropodist for consultation or emergency treatment, but
not for general practice of such profession.
   B.   General Requirements: Home occupation requirements are as follows:
      1.   Home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit used as the residence.
      2.   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur.
      3.   The primary use of the dwelling unit shall remain for residential
purposes and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a resident in the
dwelling unit.
      4.   The home occupation shall be incidental and secondary to the
permitted residential use of the lot.
      5.   No structural additions, enlargements or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance to a business or commercial appearance,
shall be permitted.
      6.   No additional and separate entrance incongruent with the residential
structural design shall be constructed for the purpose of conducting the home
occupation.
      7.   The use shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic beyond
that normal to the district in which it is located.
      8.   Not more than one room in the dwelling unit shall be employed for
the home occupation, at grade or above grade; nor three hundred (300) square
feet of basement floor area below grade.
      9.   No provision for off street parking or loading facilities, other
than the requirements of the residential district in which the use is located,
shall be permitted; and no part of a minimum required yard shall be used for
such off street parking or loading purposes. No additional driveways to serve
such home occupations shall be permitted.
      10.   No display of goods or external evidence of the home occupation
shall be permitted other than one attached, nonilluminated sign, not exceeding
one square foot in area.
      11.   No stock in trade or commodities, other than those prepared,
produced or created on the premises by the operator of the home occupation,
shall be kept or sold on the premises.
      12.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
(visually or audibly) outside of the dwelling.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: A home occupation shall not be interpreted to include:
      1.   Automobile repair and tune up.
      2.   Offices, clinics, welding shops, tourist homes, animal hospitals,
kennels, television repair shops. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-3-2: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
Accessory uses and buildings may be permitted in all zoning districts, but
shall not be constructed before the principal building is constructed.
   A.   Location On Lot: Accessory buildings shall be permitted only in side
and rear yards, and shall be located no closer than five feet (5') to the side
or rear lot lines.
   B.   Height Limitation: No accessory building shall exceed a total height of
fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 123, 1979)
   C.   Square Footage: The square footage of an accessory building shall not
exceed the square footage of the principal building. (Ord. 561, 1-12-2009)
10-3-3: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
No structure or use of land, subject to the requirements of this title, shall
violate any other law of the city, and shall conform to the following:
   A.   Frontage Requirements: All lots hereafter created shall contain
frontage along a public street, and as further specified in the individual
zoning districts.
   B.   Setbacks: Except as set forth in subsection
10-6B-5G of this title, on corner lots, reversed corner lots and double
frontage lots, two (2) front yard setback distances shall be required as
specified in the individual zoning districts. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-3-4: IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS:
   A.   Required: Within the city, no structure or improvement, home occupation
or use of land may be altered, changed, placed, erected or located on platted
or unplatted land, unless the structure, improvement or use, and its location,
conform with this title, and an improvement location permit for such structure,
improvement or use has been issued by the zoning administrator. For purposes of
this section, "structure" shall include a "manufactured home" or "mobile home",
as defined in this title.
   B.   Permit Issuance, Fee:
      1.   Authority: The zoning administrator shall issue an improvement
location permit upon written application when the proposed structure,
improvement or use and its location conform in all respects with the
requirements of this title.
      2.   Fee: When an application for an improvement location permit is filed
with the zoning administrator, it shall be accompanied with a fee set in
accordance with the schedule of fees set forth in section
10-14-3 of this title. (Ord. 294, 1993)
   C.   Plot Plan, Contents: Any person who makes application for an
improvement location permit for a permanent building (i.e., excluding portable
buildings) shall, at the time of making such application, furnish the zoning
administrator with a survey of the lot in question, prepared by a surveyor
registered with the state of Illinois, drawn to scale as required by the zoning
administrator and showing the following items:
      1.   The location and size of all buildings or structures, including
manufactured homes already on the site and those to be erected;
      2.   The width of all entrances to and exits from the site;
      3.   All adjacent streets and roadways;
      4.   Any additional information requested by the zoning administrator;
and
      5.   In the case of mobile or manufactured homes, proof that they have
the approval of housing and urban development as to complying with federal
manufactured home construction and safety standards.
As an alternative to a survey as set forth herein, an applicant may provide the
zoning administrator with proof of site locations with sufficient certainty to
satisfy the zoning administrator that the provisions of the zoning ordinance
will be met with respect to the location, size and character of the
improvements thereon. Such proof may be the locating of surveyor stakes or pins
on the lot in question or a lot directly adjacent to the lot in question, but
the determination of the zoning administrator as to the adequacy of such proof
shall be final and not subject to question by any applicant. In such event a
plot plan, drawn to scale and providing the information set forth above shall
be provided. (Ord. 450, 8-12-2002)
10-3-5: MANUFACTURED AND MODULAR HOMES:
Manufactured and modular homes shall be allowed in R-1, R-2 and R-3 districts,
provided that such homes meet the definitions of same in section
10-2-1 of this title, as applicable, and provided further that all of the
following requirements are met: (Ord. 339, 6-20-1996; amd. Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
   A.   The manufactured or modular unit be on a permanent cement block masonry
or concrete foundation with an enclosed crawl space or basement.
   B.   The unit be fully sided with conventional residential siding.
   C.   The unit have a hip or gabled asphalt, fiberglass or equivalent roof
with nominal roof pitch of 3/12 minimum.
   D.   That there be no more than one housing unit per lot, and that the unit
be a single-family residential dwelling.
   E.   The lot on which the unit is located is owned by the owner of the
manufactured or modular home.
   F.   The dwelling unit conform to lot line, setback and any other property
development standards or requirements in the applicable zoning district for
site built housing.
   G.   The shortest outside dimension of the structure be no less than twenty
four feet (24').
   H.   The structure must be multisection units in which the length does not
exceed four (4) times the width.
   I.   That there be a minimum of ten inches (10") eave overhang, including
guttering where applicable. In R-1 districts, the side of the structure with
the widest dimension must face the street.
   J.   The owner shall understand and stipulate that the structure is real
property and shall be taxed as such. (Ord. 339, 6-20-1996)
10-3-6: TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF MOBILE HOMES:
Mobile homes, trailers or vans may be utilized in all districts as contractor's
offices, watchman's shelters or tool or equipment storage only on the site and
only during the period of construction of improvement projects. (Ord. 123,
1979)
10-3-7: FENCES:
   A.   Private Fences On Public Property: No private fences shall be allowed
or constructed on public streets or highway rights of way. Fences may be placed
on public utility easements so long as the structures do not interfere in any
way with existing underground, ground or overground utilities. Further, the
city or any utility company having authority to use such easements shall not be
liable for repair or replacement of such fences in the event they are moved,
damaged, or destroyed by virtue of the lawful use of said easement. Fences in
violation of this section may be summarily removed.
   B.   Prohibited Materials Of Construction:
      1.   No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be allowed on private
property in residential zoning districts or on lots in any district being used
for single- or multiple-family dwelling purposes. No barbed wire or barbed wire
fences shall be allowed on private property in business or industrial districts
where the property lines of such property abut lots or parcels being used or
intended for single- or multiple- family purposes or on fences in front yards.
      2.   No fence shall be constructed of materials obviously intended to
inflict great bodily harm should a person or animal attempt to climb or scale
it. Such material includes, but is not limited to, electrically charged wires
or other electrical conduit, broken glass, razor blades and sharp or ragged
metal spikes or spears.
   C.   Maintenance And Repair: All fences shall be maintained in good,
structurally sound repair and in a neat, clean, presentable condition. If, on
inspection by the zoning administrator, any fence, in his determination, does
not meet the requirements of this section, he shall order the owner or occupier
of the premises, by registered or certified mail, to make the necessary repairs
or improvements as directed or he (owner or occupier) shall be in violation of
this code, and the city attorney shall cause a complaint to be issued and
processed against said owner or occupier in accordance with rules of the
circuit court of McLean County, Illinois. If an adjoining property owner will
not allow ingress or egress for the purpose of maintaining the fence, then the
responsibility for repair and maintenance of that portion of the fence shall
transfer to that adjacent owner, and he shall be liable the same as the fence
owner. (Ord. 392, 10-25-1999)
   D.   Fences In Residential Districts:
      1.   In R-1, R-2 and R-3 districts, no fence may exceed four feet (4') in
height above ground level in front yards. Fences along the side lines from the
front of the principal building to the rear lot line and along the rear lot
line, and also within side yards and rear yards, may not exceed six feet (6')
in height above ground level. On lot lines abutting the public right of way or
residential property, the fence must face outward with the support posts on the
inside.
      2.   When any fence is installed in the front, side or rear yard, it
shall not extend beyond the property lines or encroach upon adjoining property.
      3.   Prior to the building of a fence in the city of Chenoa, an
application for a permit shall be required on a form provided by the city
clerk, and a permit fee in an amount to be determined by the city council shall
be charged for all such permits. (Ord. 556, 11-10-2008)
   E.   Visibility On Corner Lots: In residential districts or residential use
areas, the location of fences, hedges and landscaping on corner lots shall be
regulated as follows, so as not to obstruct the vision of drivers of motor
vehicles: No fences shall be erected or maintained, nor any hedges or
landscaping shall be planted, grown or maintained, to a height of more than
three feet (3') above the adjacent curb/roadway height, within a triangular
area determined by a diagonal line connecting two (2) points measured along the
property lines of the abutting streets thirty feet (30') equidistant from the
intersection of those property lines.
   F.   Commercial And Industrial Districts:
      1.   In commercial and industrial districts, fences may not exceed eight
feet (8') in height above ground level, and the use of barbed wire is
prohibited; except, that one foot (1') additional of any fence along side or
rear lot lines in these zones may be constructed of barbed wire.
      2.   When any fence is installed in the front, side or rear yard, it
shall not extend beyond the property line or encroach upon adjoining property.
   G.   Nonconforming Fences: Fences existing at the effective date hereof
which are not in violation of subsection A, B, C or E of this section may
continue to be maintained and to exist but may not be replaced, if destroyed or
removed, to the extent that the violations would be continued.
   H.   Exemptions: Agricultural fences in agricultural districts and in other
districts approved for agricultural uses are exempt from this section except
where abutting properties are in residential districts or areas predominantly
used for residential use. (Ord. 392, 10-25-1999)
   I.   Swimming Pools:
      1.   Permanent Swimming Pools: All permanent swimming pools whether above
or below ground, shall be enclosed by wire mesh or chainlink fences or
landscaping capable of denying access to the premises, in a minimum height of
four feet (4'). (Ord. 392, 10-25-1999; amd. Ord. 597, 7-11-2011)
      2.   Commercial Pools:
         a.   All commercial inground or aboveground swimming pools, other than
temporary or portable type swimming pools having a depth of less than thirty
six inches (36"), shall be equipped with at least one of the following safety
features:
            (1)   An enclosure fence or landscaping with a height of at least
four feet (4') above the surrounding grade and which does not have openings
which would allow a child to gain entry, or protrusions which allow climbing,
and which is equipped with a self-closing and self-latching gate with the
latching device located no less than forty four inches (44") from the bottom of
the gate; or
            (2)   An operational powered safety cover capable of supporting not
less than two hundred fifty (250) pounds, which is equipped with a railing
system that prevents entry under the cover and a switch mechanism protected by
a locking switch box; or
            (3)   A removable or lockup ladder which is the only means to gain
access to the pool. The ladder shall be removed or locked up when the pool is
not in use.
            (4)   A self-latching lockout gate which would deny access to the
pool by denying access to the steps or ladder to the pool, with the latching
device located no less than forty four inches (44") from the bottom of the
gate.
         b.   Allowing access to the pool when not in use by allowing unlocked
openings in the fence or landscaping, or ladders in the down or unlocked
position, shall be deemed an ordinance violation punishable pursuant to the
provisions of the general penalty ordinance of the city of Chenoa, with a fine
of no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each occurrence.
         c.   As the health and safety of the citizens of Chenoa is an issue
and a concern by the city council, the provisions of section
10-12-2, "Nonconforming Uses", of this title shall not apply, and a swimming
pool which does not meet the requirements of this chapter shall not be
considered a nonconforming use. All existing pools as defined herein shall
therefore be subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 597, 7-11-2011)
   J.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Any fence or landscaping which shall be
erected or maintained contrary to the provisions of this code is deemed a
nuisance, and it shall be the duty of the zoning administrator and the chief of
police to abate the same by any means allowable under state law or this code.
(Ord. 392, 10-25-1999)
10-3-8: TEMPORARY WHEELCHAIR RAMPS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, temporary wooden wheelchair
ramps shall not be subject to front, side or rear yard setback requirements in
residential (R-1, R-2, R-1A and R-3) zoning districts. Such ramps shall be
subject, however, to the following restrictions: (Ord. 521, 4-9-2007; amd. Ord.
525, 5-1-2007)
   A.   No such ramp will encroach on any sidewalk or public right of way.
   B.   Such ramp shall require a building permit prior to construction as
required for normal building construction.
   C.   Such ramp shall be uncovered and not enclosed, and shall be of such a
nature as to accommodate normal wheelchair use, or such use as may be necessary
for individuals who for medical or disability reasons cannot negotiate steps.
   D.   Such ramps shall only be allowed without complying with normal setback
requirements for so long as a person with such a condition or disability as
defined in subsection C of this section resides in the residence. (Ord. 521, 4-
9-2007)
10-3-9: SHIPPING CONTAINERS:
   A.   No person shall place, cause to be placed, or use a shipping container
as a permanent structure on any property for any purpose in any zoning district
without a permit.
   B.   The following exceptions shall apply to all permits granted by the
City:
      1.   Permits granted for shipping containers will be allowed by the City
Zoning Board and shall be allowed on a temporary basis for a period not to
exceed three (3) consecutive months for any given year when used for clean-up,
renovation, moving, or construction in any Residential Zoning District subject
to all requirements of that zoning district. The City reserves the right to
extend the permit upon request and good cause shown. Shipping containers will
also be allowed in all I-1 and I-2 Zoning Districts and by Special Use in all
other business districts, subject to the requirements of those zoning
districts.
      2.   Prior to the Zoning Board granting a storage container permit, an
application for a permit shall be submitted to the City and in a form provided
by the City Clerk, and a permit fee in an amount to be determined by the City
Council shall be charged for the processing of such permit.
      3.   The maximum number of shipping containers permitted per permit is
one container. The applicant may request additional containers only in the
event that there exists additional vacant property in excess of one acre for
the placement of such container. The City reserves the right to allow for
additional containers on good cause shown.
      4.   There shall be no stacking of storage containers unless good cause
is shown by the applicant.
   C.   Permit Application:
      1.   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file a permit
application on a form furnished by the City Clerk and for that purpose. The
form must be completed and submitted to the City Clerk before the issuance of a
permit will be considered by the Zoning Board.
      2.   Each application shall contain the name of the owner or owners of
the premises on which the storage container will be situated, the proposed date
of placement and length of time the container shall be at the property, the
number of containers, and any other pertinent information that will aid the
Zoning Board in determining the appropriateness of the request or the necessity
of a variance for good cause shown.
(Ord. 866, 1-23-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Districts Established
10-4-2: Zoning Map
10-4-3: Interpretation Of Zoning Boundaries
10-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city is classified and divided into zoning districts designated as follows:
District           Primarily For                             
  Designation
District           Primarily For                             
  Designation
   AG        Agriculture district
   R-1       Single-family residential district
   R-1A      Single-family manufactured home residential district
   R-2       Medium density residential district
   R-3       Higher density residential district
   MH        Mobile home district
   C-1       Local business district
   C-2       Central business district
   I-1       Light industrial district
   I-2       General industrial district
   I-3       Highway interchange industrial district
   I-4       Highway interchange industrial and highway use district
   H-I       Highway interchange district
 
(Ord. 230, 1987; amd. Ord. 294, 1993; Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
10-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The zoning district map, which accompanies the Chenoa zoning ordinance, is
declared to be a part of this title and which is on file in the city clerk's
office, shows the boundaries of and the area covered by the zoning districts.
(Ord. 123, 1979)
10-4-3: INTERPRETATION OF ZONING BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are as
shown on the zoning map, which is a part of this title.
   B.   When the exact boundaries of a district are uncertain, they shall be
determined by use of the scale of the zoning map.
   C.   When a right of way is vacated, the districts adjoining each side are
respectively extended to the center of the area so vacated.
   D.   In the case of further uncertainty, the board of appeals shall
interpret the intent of the zoning map as to the location of the boundary in
question. (Ord. 123, 1979)
CHAPTER 5
AG AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Permitted Uses
10-5-3: Special Uses
10-5-4: Property Development Standards
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The AG agriculture district is established to include lands for agricultural
uses. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the AG district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in section
10-5-4 of this chapter, and section
10-3-3 of this title:
Advertising structure.
Commercial greenhouse.
Dwelling, farm.
Dwelling, single-family.
Farm equipment, sales and service.
Farm, general.
Farm worker seasonal housing, tenant.
Home occupation.
Medical marijuana cultivation center.
Municipal or government building.
Police station or fire station.
Private swimming pool.
Public park or recreational facilities.
Railroad right of way and necessary uses.
Roadside produce sales stand.
School, public or private.
Signs.
Warehouse and storage of grain, seed and dry fertilizer storage facilities,
including grain storage and drying facilities. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 671,
9-8-2014)
10-5-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13 of this title:
Airport.
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizer, and bulk fertilizer storage
and distribution (commercial).
Aquaponic fish farm.
Asphalt or asphaltic concrete batching plant.
Assembly halls for use by nonprofit organizations.
Auction sales yard.
Bait sales (live).
Bottled gas, storage and distribution.
Bulk storage of petroleum products.
Camping facilities.
Cemetery.
Church.
Contractor's storage yard.
Country club or golf course.
Farm, confinement feeding.
Kennel.
Lodge or private club.
Machine shop.
Manufacturing, storage or use of explosives.
Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise.
Penal or correctional institution.
Private recreational development.
Public or commercial sanitary landfill, or garbage disposal plant.
Racetrack (outdoor).
Riding stable.
Seasonal hunting or fishing lodge.
Shooting range (outdoor).
Slaughterhouse.
Theater (outdoor).
Warehouse and enclosed storage of boats, campers, travel trailers, agricultural
equipment, recreational equipment and wheeled vehicles.
Welding shop.
Wholesale produce terminal. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 603, 10-10-2011; Ord.
623, 8-27-2012)
10-5-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards set forth in this section shall
apply to all land and structures in the AG agriculture district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: All lots hereafter created in this district shall
contain an area of not less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of one hundred fifty feet (150') and a minimum depth of two hundred feet
(200'). Curve and cul-de-sac lot widths shall be measured as chord distance at
the building setback line.
   C.   Lot Coverage: The buildings on a lot, including accessory buildings,
may not exceed in coverage twenty percent (20%) of the total lot area.
   D.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than thirty five feet
(35').
   E.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   F.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard shall be not less than forty feet (40').
      2.   Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard for the principal
building shall not be less than twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal
building shall not be less than fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 123, 1979)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Special Uses
10-6A-4: Property Development Standards
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The R-1 single-family residential district is established to provide areas for
single-family residential development. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the R-1 district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in section
10-6A-4 of this article, and section
10-3-3 of this title:
Dwelling, single-family.
Home occupation.
Manufactured or modular home, provided that the requirements of section
10-3-5 of this title are met.
Municipal or government building.
Public park or recreational facilities. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 339, 6-20-
1996)
10-6A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13 of this title:
Church.
Country club or golf course.
Kindergarten or day nursery, other than as a part of a school providing other
grades. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-6A-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the R-1 single-family residential district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: All lots hereafter created in this district shall
contain an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of seventy five feet (75') and a minimum depth of one hundred twenty feet
(120'). Curve and cul-de-sac lot widths shall be measured as chord distance at
the building setback line.
   C.   Lot Coverage: The buildings on a lot, including accessory buildings,
along with any structure may not exceed in coverage fifty percent (50%) of the
total lot area.
   D.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than thirty feet (30').
   E.   Minimum Ground Floor Area: No single-family dwelling may be changed or
erected so that its ground floor area is less than seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet.
   F.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of
chapter 11 of this title shall apply.
   G.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
yard setback requirements set forth in this subsection are provided:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
      2.   Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard for the principal
building shall not be less than ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal
building shall not be less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord.
557, 11-10-2008; Ord. 561, 1-12-2009; Ord. 848, 11-8-2022; Ord. 871, 8-13-2024)
ARTICLE B. R-1A SINGLE-FAMILY MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Intent And Purpose
10-6B-2: Zoning Map Amendment Guidelines
10-6B-3: Permitted Uses
10-6B-4: Special Uses
10-6B-5: Property Development Standards
10-6B-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this R-1A Single-Family Manufactured Home
Residential District is to allow primarily for the establishment of a
manufactured mobile home subdivision or manufactured home park where lots are
provided in a manner and with single-family residence district criteria, safe
and compatible to surrounding land uses and densities, in conformance with the
subdivision regulations of this Code 1 , and where manufactured homes, as
defined in Section
10-2-1 of this Title, are to be placed on permanent foundations.
   B.   Purpose: The R-1A District is established to provide areas for single-
family manufactured home residential development. (Ord. 348, 4-3-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 11 of this Code.
10-6B-2: ZONING MAP AMENDMENT GUIDELINES:
Prior to the establishment of an R-1A Single-Family Manufactured Home
Residential District, the following guidelines shall be applied to the proposal
under consideration:
   A.   The capacity of existing and proposed community facilities and
utilities including water, sewer and transportation systems to serve the
proposed development;
   B.   The adequacy of public services including police and fire protection,
solid waste collection and public schools that would serve the development and
the impact the proposal would have upon these;
   C.   The extent to which the proposed residential development will promote
balanced growth in the community and will be consistent with the City's goals
for equal housing opportunities and a variety of housing types;
   D.   The compatibility of the proposal to both existing and permitted uses
on surrounding properties;
   E.   The impact any natural disaster, including flooding, will have upon the
proposed development;
   F.   The impact the proposed development would have upon the natural
environment including noise, air and water pollution; and
   G.   The conformance of the proposal to the official comprehensive
development plan and official map. (Ord. 348, 4-3-1997)
10-6B-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the R-1A District, plus such other
uses as the Zoning Board may deem to be similar in nature. All uses shall be
subject to the property development standards as set forth in this Section and
in Section
10-3-3 of this Title:
Accessory uses and buildings.
Dwelling, single family.
Home occupation.
Manufactured home park.
Municipal or government building.
Public park or recreational facilities.
Single-family manufactured home dwelling. (Ord. 348, 4-3-1997)
10-6B-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13 of this title:
Agricultural uses as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title.
Church.
Country club or golf course.
Kindergarten or day nursery, other than as part of a school providing other
grades.
Parking lot, noncommercial.
Religious education facilities.
School. (Ord. 348, 4-3-1997; amd. Ord. 587, 10-11-2010)
10-6B-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards:
      1.   General: The property development standards set forth in this
section and section
10-3-3 of this title shall apply to all land and structures in the R-1A single-
family manufactured home residential district. However, the standards of any
applicable Illinois or federal statutes pertaining to manufactured homes shall
supersede these standards if the standards included in such statutes are more
stringent. All references to public streets in applicable sections herein shall
apply to private streets and drives in manufactured home parks, even though not
dedicated to the public.
      2.   Applicability To Manufactured Home Park: A manufactured home park
must be subdivided into individual lots, notwithstanding single ownership of
all such lots, in order to determine compliance with the property development
standards as set forth herein. (Ord. 348, 4-3-1997)
      3.   Singlewide Mobile Homes: Nothing in this title shall preclude the
use of singlewide manufactured homes in R-1A districts. However, use of same
shall specifically be limited in the following manner:
         a.   At no time shall the number of singlewide manufactured homes, as
a percentage of the total manufactured homes then located in any contiguous R-
1A district, be greater than fifty percent (50%).
         b.   No singlewide manufactured home shall be installed in an R-1A
district which is, at the time of such installation, more than ten (10) years
old from the date of the manufacturer. (Ord. 666, 7-14-2014)
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter shall have a minimum width of sixty
feet (60') and a minimum depth of ninety feet (90'). Curve and cul-de-sac lot
widths shall be measured as chord distance at the building setback line.
   C.   Lot Coverage: The buildings on a lot, including accessory buildings,
may not exceed in coverage forty percent (40%) of the total lot area.
   D.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than fifteen feet (15').
(Ord. 348, 4-3-1997)
   E.   Minimum Ground Floor Area: No single-family dwelling may be changed or
erected so that its ground floor area is less than nine hundred ten (910)
square feet. (Ord. 666, 7-14-2014)
   F.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   G.   Yard Requirements: No buildings shall be erected or enlarged unless the
yard setback requirements set forth in this subsection are provided:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard shall be not less than fifteen feet (15').
(Ord. 348, 4-3-1997)
      2.   Corner Lot Setbacks: Corner lots shall be required to have only one
front yard setback, the identity of which shall be determined pursuant to the
definition of "lot line, front" in section
10-2-1 of this title. The setback requirement for the other front lot line in
an R-1A district shall be as for a side yard in such district. (Ord. 312, 1994)
      3.   Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard for the principal
building shall not be less than six feet (6').
      4.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal yard
shall be not less than seven feet (7'). (Ord. 348, 4-3-1997)
ARTICLE C. R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Special Uses
10-6C-4: Property Development Standards
10-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The R-2 Medium Density Residential District is established to provide areas for
single-family, two-family and medium density multi-family residences. (Ord.
123, 1979)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the R-2 District, plus such other uses
as the Zoning Board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in section
10-6C-4 of this article and section
10-3-3 of this title:
Advertising signs at funeral homes only, to advertise for funeral home use on
the same premises, provided that the provisions of section
10-10-2 of this title are followed, and with the further restriction that the
sign shall not have a total height greater than five feet (5') above the level
of the street, nor shall it exceed eighteen (18) square feet. On corner lots,
one such sign shall be allowed in each yard facing a street.
Advertising structures oriented to I-55 billboard signage, provided that all
the structures conform to all State of Illinois rules and regulations and the
provisions of title 9, chapter 4 of this Code (provided that compliance with
section
9-4-4 of this Code shall not be construed to require additional owner's or
frontage consents), that such structures be limited to property immediately
adjacent to Interstate Route 55, and that the number of such structures be
limited to one structure in total on the west side of Interstate Route 55 in
the R-2 District.
Dwelling, one-family.
Dwelling, two-family.
Home occupation.
Kindergarten or day nursery.
Manufactured or modular home, provided that the requirements of section
 10-3-5 of this title are met.
Municipal or government building.
Public library or museum. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 172, 1982; Ord. 339, 6-20-
1996; Ord. 525, 5-1-2007; Ord. 710, 9-26-2016)
10-6C-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided in
chapter 13 of this title:
Boarding or lodging house.
Bookkeeping and accounting office.
Charitable institution.
Church.
Dwelling, multiple-family.
Electronic communications transmission and reception tower.
Funeral home.
Home for the aged.
Laundromat.
Nursing home.
Orphanage.
Parking lot, provided that where the parking lot is adjacent to a residence,
there shall be a solid fence at least four feet (4') high, between the lots.
Wallpaper, drapery and related accessories store. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord.
156, 1981; Ord. 160, 1981; Ord. 398, 2-28-2000; Ord. 569, 6-8-2009; Ord. 625,
9-10-2012)
10-6C-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the R-2 Medium Density Residential Districts:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: All lots hereafter created in this district shall
contain an area of not less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of seventy five feet (75') and a minimum depth of one hundred feet (100').
Curve and cul- de-sac lot widths shall be measured as chord distance at the
building setback line.
   C.   Lot Coverage: The building on a lot, including accessory buildings,
along with any structure may not exceed in coverage fifty percent (50%) of the
total lot area.
   D.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than forty feet (40').
   E.   Minimum Ground Floor Area: No single-family dwelling may be changed or
erected so that its ground floor area is less than seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet.
   F.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of
chapter 11 of this title shall apply.
   G.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
yard setback requirements set out in this subsection are provided:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
      2.   Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard for the principal
building shall not be less than ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal
building shall not be less than ten feet (10').
   H.   Zero Lot Line Development Requirements: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, a lot of record in an R-2 District may contain side
yards of reduced size in the following particulars:
      1.   Two Lot Zero Lot Line Developments:
         a.   One side yard of at least ten feet (10') and one side yard of
zero feet (0'), provided that the side yard of zero feet (0') abuts another lot
with a side yard of zero feet (0') and the two (2) lots share the same side
yard lot of zero feet (0'). Such configuration shall be referred to for the
purpose of this subsection as a two (2) lot zero lot line development.
         b.   In all such two (2) lot zero lot line developments, the minimum
total lot size of the two (2) lots comprising the two (2) separate zero lot
line lots shall be eight thousand (8,000) square feet, and the combined minimum
lot width of the said two (2) lots shall be sixty feet (60'), but there shall
be no minimum lot size for the individual lots.
      2.   Three Lot Zero Lot Line Developments:
         a.   One side yard of at least ten feet (10') and one side yard of
zero feet (0') on end lots, and two (2) side yards of zero feet (0') for the
middle lot, in the case of three (3) consecutive adjoining lots, provided the
side yards of zero feet (0') abut another lot in the same development with a
side yard of zero feet (0'). Such configuration shall be referred to for
purposes of this subsection as a three (3) lot zero lot line development.
         b.   In all such three (3) lot zero lot line developments, the minimum
total lot size of the three (3) lots comprising the three (3) separate zero lot
line lots shall be twelve thousand (12,000) square feet, and the combined
minimum lot width of the said three (3) lots shall be ninety feet (90'), but
there shall be no minimum lot size for the individual lots.
      3.   Other Standards Still Apply: All other property development
standards for R-2 Districts except as specifically modified in this subsection
H shall remain applicable for two (2) lot and three (3) lot zero lot line
developments. (Ord. 409, 8-28-2000)
   I.   Metal Exteriors: No building shall have a metal exterior, other than a
standard metal residential siding.
   J.   Widest Dimension: The widest dimension of a principal building shall be
the dimension most nearly parallel to the front lot line of the lot on which
the principal building is located. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 557, 11-10-2008;
Ord. 561, 1-12-2009; amd. Ord. 848, 11-8-2022)
ARTICLE D. MH MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Purpose
10-6D-2: Permitted Uses
10-6D-3: Property Development Standards
10-6D-4: Special Uses
10-6D-1: PURPOSE:
The MH district is established to provide areas for mobile homes and mobile
home parks. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-6D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the MH district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in section
10-6D-3 of this article and section
10-3-3 of this title:
Accessory uses and buildings.
Home occupation.
Mobile home.
Mobile home park. (Ord. 12, 1979)
10-6D-3: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the MH district. However, the standards of the Illinois
mobile home park act 1  shall supersede these standards if the standards
included in the act are more stringent: (Ord. 123, 1979)
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum area required for each mobile home
district shall be five (5) acres. All mobile home spaces shall contain a
minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet; provided, however, that a new
mobile home district may consist of less than five (5) acres if the proposed
area is comprised of at least three (3) contiguous lots on which, at the time
of rezoning, three (3) or more mobile homes, whether nonconforming uses or not,
are located. (Ord. 241, 1988)
   B.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   C.   Yards: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following
yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
      2.   Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard for the principal
building shall not be less than ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal
building shall not be less than ten feet (10'). (Ord. 123, 1979)
 
Notes
1 1. 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
10-6D-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13 of this title:
Electronic communications transmission and reception tower. (Ord. 625, 9-10-
2012)
ARTICLE E. R-3 HIGHER DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6E-1: Purpose
10-6E-2: Permitted Uses
10-6E-3: Special Uses
10-6E-4: Property Development Standards
10-6E-1: PURPOSE:
The R-3 higher density residential district is established to provide areas for
single-family, two-family and higher density multi-family residential
development. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
10-6E-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the R-3 district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in section
10-6E-4 of this article and section
10-3-3 of this title:
All uses permitted in the R-2 district; and
Dwelling, multiple-family, subject to the provisions of subsection
10-6E-4B of this article. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
10-6E-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided in
chapter 13 of this title:
All uses allowed as special uses in the R-2 district.
Electronic communications transmission and reception tower. (Ord. 525, 5-1-
2007; amd. Ord. 625, 9-10-2012)
10-6E-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   The property development standards set forth in section
10-6C-4 of this chapter pertaining to R-2 districts, including minimum lot
area, lot dimensions, lot coverage, building height, minimum ground floor area,
off street parking, yard requirements, and zero lot line development
requirements, and any amendments hereafter enacted to said section, shall apply
to all land and structures in the R-3 district, except as modified in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   With regard to "dwelling, multiple-family(ies)" (as defined in this
code), such units shall be allowed as a permitted use herein, provided that
there shall be a maximum of ten (10) such units on any one acre portion of the
district. "Dwelling, multiple-family" (including, without limitation, "for
rent" apartments) shall be permitted as multiple buildings on the same zoning
lot provided the limitation on density as set forth in this section is adhered
to. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Special Uses
10-7A-4: Property Development Standards
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The C-1 Local Business District is established to provide areas for a general
range of retail and service shopping needs. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the C-1 District, plus such other uses
as the Zoning Board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in Section 10-7A-5 of this Article and
Section
10-3-3 of this Title:
Apparel store.
Bakery, retail.
Bank.
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Business or professional office.
Clinic.
Dairy, retail only (no processing).
Delicatessen.
Dressmaking shop.
Drugstore.
Dry-cleaning establishment.
Electric appliance service and sales.
Flower shop.
Funeral home.
Garden shop.
Gift shop.
Greenhouse.
Hardware store.
Jewelry store.
Laundry agency.
Meat market.
Millinery shop.
Motel.
Municipal or government building.
Pet shop.
Postal station.
Public library or museum.
Public park or recreational area.
Radio, television service and sales.
Record shop.
Reducing salon.
Restaurant.
Restaurant, drive-in.
Self-service laundry and dry cleaning.
Shoe repair shop.
Stationer.
Supermarket.
Tailor and pressing shop.
Variety store. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-7A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13 of this title:
   Assembly hall for use by nonprofit organizations.
   Body art establishments.
   Brew pub.
   Church.
   Craft brewery.
   Electronic communications transmission and reception tower.
   Filling or service station.
   Fish nursery.
   Kindergarten or day nursery (other than part of a school providing other
grades).
   Open sales lot.
   Tavern.
   Tree nurseries.
   Welding, metal fabricating shop.
   Winery. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 209, 1985; Ord. 215, 1986; Ord. 266,
1991; Ord. 365, 5-11-1998; Ord. 601, 10-10-2011; Ord. 625, 9-10-2012; Ord. 778,
12-9-2019; Ord. 779, 12-9-2019; Ord. 780, 1-14-2020)
10-7A-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the C-1 local business district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: There is no minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of fifty feet (50'). Curve and cul-de-sac lot widths shall be measured as chord
distance at the building setback line.
   C.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than thirty five feet
(35').
   D.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   E.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard shall be not less than ten feet (10').
      2.   Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard for the principal
building shall not be less than ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal
building shall not be less than ten feet (10'). (Ord. 123, 1979)
ARTICLE B. C-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Purpose
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Special Uses
10-7B-4: Property Development Standards
10-7B-1: PURPOSE:
The C-2 central business district is established to provide areas for retail
trade that are associated with Chenoa central business district. (Ord. 123,
1979)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the C-2 district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in section
10-7B-4 of this article and section
10-3-3 of this title:
All uses permitted in the C-1 district.
Assembly halls or nonprofit organizations.
Billiard room.
Boarding or lodging house.
Charitable institutions.
Department store.
Dressmaking shop.
Flower shop.
Hotel or motel.
Municipal or government building.
Newsdealer.
Nightclub.
Nursing home.
Office supplies.
Open sales lot.
Photograph studio.
Print shop and newspaper.
Railway or motorbus station.
Residential uses shall be allowed on the first floor, so long as the
residential use is: a) limited to one contiguous area in that portion of the
building furthest removed from the front lot line; b) no part of the
residential use shall include the room or rooms of the building closest to the
front lot line; c) no basement area of any building shall comprise a
residential use; and d) the area of residential use comprises no more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the first floor building area. Prior to
establishing such use, the user shall contact the zoning administrator and
allow access to the premises to determine the character and area of such
residential use.
Studio business (art, interior decorating, music, etc.).
Tavern.
Theater, indoor. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 209, 1985; Ord. 461, 7-14-2003)
10-7B-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13  of this title:
   Automobile repair (all indoors).
   Brew pub.
   Craft brewery.
   Electronic communications transmission and reception tower.
   Farm equipment sales and service.
   Filling or service station.
   Locker, cold storage for individual use.
   Residential uses shall be allowed on the second floor and above in
accordance with the zoning code.
   Winery. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 461, 7-14-2003; Ord. 625, 9-10-2012; Ord.
780, 1-14-2020)
10-7B-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the C-2 central business district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: There is no minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: There is no minimum requirement.
   C.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than forty feet (40').
   D.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   E.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Front yard: There is no minimum requirement.
      2.   Side yards: There is no minimum requirement.
      3.   Rear yard: There is no minimum requirement. (Ord. 123, 1979)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Purpose
10-8A-2: Permitted Uses
10-8A-3: Special Uses
10-8A-4: Property Development Standards
10-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The I-1 light industrial district is established to provide areas for light
industrial and restricted retail trades. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the I-1 district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in section
10-8A-4 of this article and section
10-3-3 of this title:
Advertising structures.
Antique stores and antique malls.
Automobile repair.
Bank.
Contractor's storage yard.
Filling or service station.
Industrial park.
Industry, light.
Kennel.
Lumberyard.
Municipal or government building.
Police or fire station.
Restaurant.
Truck service center.
Warehouse and storage of grain, seed, and dry fertilizer storage facilities,
including grain storage and drying. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 209, 1985; Ord.
232, 1988)
10-8A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13 of this title:
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizer, storage and distribution
(commercial).
Auction sales yard (excluding livestock).
Automobile laundry.
Bottled gas, storage and distribution.
Bulk storage of petroleum products.
Electronic communications transmission and reception tower.
Open sales lot.
Schools.
Slaughterhouse.
Truck freight terminal. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 187, 1983; Ord. 625, 9-10-
2012; Ord. 646, 11-25-2013)
10-8A-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the I-1 light industrial district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: There is no minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of fifty feet (50'). Curve and cul-de-sac lot widths shall be measured as chord
distance at the building setback line.
   C.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than forty feet (40').
   D.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   E.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Front yard: There is no minimum requirement.
      2.   Side yards: There is no minimum requirement.
      3.   Rear yard: There is no minimum requirement.
In any event, when any of the respective front, side or rear yards are
contiguous to or abutting other lots or parcels within the same block, the
minimum width of each yard which abuts or is contiguous to said lots or parcels
shall not be less than five feet (5'); provided further, that when any of the
respective front, side or rear yards are contiguous to or abutting a
residential district or use within the same block, the minimum width of each
yard which abuts or is contiguous to said district or use shall not be less
than ten feet (10'). (Ord. 123, 1979)
CH0573   10-8B.txt
ARTICLE B. I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Purpose
10-8B-2: Permitted Uses
10-8B-3: Special Uses
10-8B-4: Property Development Standards
10-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The I-2 general industrial district is established to provide areas for a
general range of manufacturing services. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the I-2 district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in subsections
10-8B-4A through E of this article and section
10-3-3 of this title:
All uses permitted in the I-1 district.
Antique stores and antique malls.
Concrete, ready mix plant.
Contractor's storage yard.
Industry, general.
Manufacturing.
Material storage, open.
Truck freight terminal. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 232, 1988)
10-8B-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13  of this title:
   Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizers, storage and distribution
(commercial).
   Asphalt and asphaltic concrete batch plant.
   Automobile parking and storage.
   Bottled gas storage and distribution.
   Bulk storage of petroleum products.
   Craft shops, where articles for sale are substantially manufactured or
assembled on the premises.
   Dental, medical and veterinary clinics.
   Electronic communications transmission and reception tower.
   Junkyard.
   Manufacturing, storage or use of explosives.
   Ministorage rental facilities.
   Open sales lot.
   Petroleum tank farm, commercial.
   Public or commercial sanitary landfill, refuse dump or garbage disposal
plant.
   Slaughterhouse.
   Storage warehouses.
   Video gaming. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. Ord. 165, 1981; Ord. 183, 1982; Ord.
209, 1985; Ord. 287, 1993; Ord. 572, 7-13-2009; Ord. 688, 7-13-2015; Ord. 781,
1-14-2020)
10-8B-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the I-2 general industrial district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: There is no minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of fifty feet (50'). Curve and cul-de-sac lot widths shall be measured as chord
distance at the building setback line.
   C.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than forty feet (40').
   D.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   E.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Front yard: There is no minimum requirement.
      2.   Side yards: There is no minimum requirement.
      3.   Rear yard: There is no minimum requirement.
In any event, when any of the respective front, side or rear yards are
contiguous to or abutting other lots or parcels within the same block, the
minimum width of each yard which abuts or is contiguous to said lots or parcels
shall not be less than five feet (5'); provided further, that when any of the
respective front, side or rear yards are contiguous to or abutting a
residential district or use within the same block, the minimum width of each
yard which abuts or is contiguous to said district or use shall not be less
than ten feet (10'). (Ord. 123, 1979)
ARTICLE C. I-3 HIGHWAY INTERCHANGE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8C-1: Purpose
10-8C-2: Permitted Uses
10-8C-3: Special Uses
10-8C-4: Property Development Standards
10-8C-5: Transition Screen Requirements
10-8C-1: PURPOSE:
The I-3 highway interchange industrial district is established to provide areas
for a general range of manufacturing, industrial, and transportation services
compatible with its location near an interstate highway interchange. (Ord. 525,
5-1-2007)
10-8C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the I-3 district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses to be subject to
the property development standards in sections
10-8C-4 and
10-8C-5 of this article, and section
10-3-3 of this title:
All uses permitted in the I-2 district.
Advertising structures oriented to I-55 billboard signage, provided that all
the structures conform to all state of Illinois rules and regulations and the
provisions of title 9, chapter 4 of this code (provided that compliance with
section
9-4-4 of this code shall not be construed to require additional owner's or
frontage consents), that such structures be limited to property immediately
adjacent to Interstate 55, and that the number of such structures be limited to
two (2) structures in total on the east side of Interstate 55 in the I-
3 district.
Cellular telephone, telephone exchange and microwave relay towers not exceeding
one hundred feet (100') in height.
Ethanol plant and storage and processing of related raw and finished materials.
Farm equipment, sales and service.
Farm, general.
Food distribution.
Food packaging.
Medical marijuana cultivation center.
Outside storage of bulk material, equipment and vehicles (stone surface and up
to 16 foot high chainlink fences shall be permissible, notwithstanding the
provisions of subsection
10-3-7F of this title).
Rail freight terminals, railroad switching and classification yards, repair
shops and round houses.
Storage and sale of trailers, farm implements and similar equipment.
Transportation facilities including, but not limited to, cross dock terminals,
motor freight, truck maintenance facilities, container storage, trailer
parking, and trailer drop lots.
Warehouse and bulk distribution. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007; amd. Ord. 671, 9-8-2014)
10-8C-3: SPECIAL USES:
!!! Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizers, storage and
distribution (commercial).
Asphalt and asphaltic concrete batch plant.
Bottled gas storage and distribution.
Bulk storage of petroleum products.
Craft shops, where articles for sale are substantially manufactured or
assembled on the premises.
Dental, medical and veterinary clinics.
Electronic communications transmission and reception tower.
Food processing.
Open sales lot.
Petroleum tank farm, commercial.
Plastic and/or rubber and/or metal products manufacturing and processing;
including the processing of raw materials. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007; amd. Ord. 625,
9-10-2012)
10-8C-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the I-3 highway interchange industrial district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: There is no minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: All lots hereafter created shall have a minimum width
of fifty feet (50'). Curve and cul-de-sac lot widths shall be measured as chord
distance at the building setback line.
   C.   Building Height: No building or structure located in this district may
be changed or erected so as to have a height greater than eighty feet (80').
   D.   Off Street Parking: The provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall
apply.
   E.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Front yard: There is no minimum requirement.
      2.   Side yards: There is no minimum requirement.
      3.   Rear yard: There is no minimum requirement.
In any event, when any of the respective front, side or rear yards are
contiguous to or abutting other lots or parcels within the same block, the
minimum width of each yard which abuts or is contiguous to said lots or parcels
shall not be less than five feet (5'); provided further, that when any of the
respective front, side or rear yards are contiguous to or abutting a
residential district or use within the same block, the minimum width of each
yard which abuts or is contiguous to said district or use shall not be less
than ten feet (10').
   F.   Transition Areas: In any locations where an I-3 district is contiguous
to any residential district, including R-1, R-1A, R-2 and R-3 districts, a
public street shall be located between the two (2) districts, or in the
alternative, a transition area of at least eighty feet (80') width at all
points between the respective districts, to provide a separation area between
such districts, where no buildings shall be allowed. Such transition area may
include the area of any building setbacks required by this zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
10-8C-5: TRANSITION SCREEN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Transition Screens: A transition screen shall be required along all lot
lines or public rights of way in an I-3 district which are contiguous to any
residential district, including R-1, R-1A, R-2 and R-3 districts. Transition
screens shall extend the full length of such border, and shall consist of a
planting screen that meets the specifications set forth in subsections B and C
of this section. A landscaped berm or fence screen meeting the specifications
in subsection D or E of this section may be used in lieu of such planting
screen, if a variation for such substitution is granted by the zoning board of
appeals.
   B.   Planting Screens: Planting screens shall consist of trees, bushes or
shrubs of a variety and so planted and kept as to meet and maintain the
following criteria, with such criteria to be achieved within thirty six (36)
months after occupancy of the premises to be screened.
   C.   Minimum Height And Open Space: Such screen shall have a minimum height
of six feet (6') above grade at any particular point along its length. Any two
foot (2') square segment of a planting screen shall contain no more than thirty
percent (30%) open space affording direct horizontal view through such screen
if such segment is over two feet (2') above grade.
   D.   Landscaped Berm:
      1.   Adequate evidence from a registered engineer shall be furnished
demonstrating that the construction of such berm, along with any necessary
culverts and ditching, will not create adverse drainage and flooding conditions
on adjacent property.
      2.   Such berm shall be at least fifteen feet (15') in width at the base
and at least three feet (3') in height, as measured perpendicular to grade
level at any point along its length. Side slopes shall have a gradient no
steeper than three to one (3:1).
      3.   Side slopes of such berm shall be sodded so as to prevent erosion.
The top of the berm shall contain a planting screen according to the
specifications set forth in subsection A of this section except that the
minimum height of such planting screen need be no more than three feet (3')
above the top of the berm at any particular point along its length.
Construction and material of such berm shall be as approved by the zoning board
of appeals.
   E.   Fence Screen: A fence screen shall not be less than six feet (6') nor
more than eight feet (8') in height above grade level, at any particular point
along its length, and any two foot (2') square segment of such screen shall
contain no more than thirty percent (30%) open space affording a direct
horizontal view through such screen. Construction and material of such fence
screen shall be as approved by the zoning board of appeals.
   F.   Screening Plan: A plan for such transition screen, as set forth in
subsection A of this section, shall be provided to the city at the time of
submission of an application for building permit, and installation of such
screening shall be completed at the time of completion of the building, with
the exception of a planting screen, which shall have attained the standards set
forth in subsection B of this section within the time set forth herein.
   G.   Failure To Install: In the event such screens are not installed or have
not attained such standards pursuant to the terms of this section within the
period set forth herein, the zoning board of appeals may issue a cease and
desist order providing that all use of the premises terminate until the
screening requirements are met, and may assess a fine pursuant to the
applicable sections of this code, or both. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
ARTICLE D. I-4 HIGHWAY INTERCHANGE INDUSTRIAL AND HIGHWAY USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8D-1: Purpose
10-8D-2: Permitted Uses
10-8D-3: Special Uses
10-8D-4: Property Development Standards
10-8D-1: PURPOSE:
The I-4 highway interchange industrial and highway use district is established
to provide areas for a general range of manufacturing, industrial,
transportation and commercial services compatible with its location near an
interstate highway interchange and along a commercial thoroughfare. (Ord. 525,
5-1-2007)
10-8D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the I-4 district, plus such other uses
as the zoning board may deem to be similar in nature; all uses to be subject to
the property development standards in section
10-8D-4 of this article, and section
10-3-3 of this title:
All uses permitted in the I-3 district.
Automobile and truck laundry and washes.
Automobile repair.
Automobile sales (accessories included).
Equipment rental and leasing.
Filling or service station.
Restaurant (with or without drive-through).
Truck sales.
Truck service center. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
10-8D-3: SPECIAL USES:
!!! All uses allowed as special uses in the I-3 district.
Electronic communications transmission and reception tower. (Ord. 525, 5-1-
2007; amd. Ord. 625, 9-10-2012)
10-8D-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   The property development standards set forth in the sections pertaining
to I-3 districts (sections
10-8C-4 and
10-8C-5 of this chapter), including minimum lot area, lot dimensions, building
height, off street parking, yard requirements, and transition screen
requirements, and any amendments hereafter enacted to said sections, shall
apply to all land and structures in the I-4 district, except as modified in
subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   With respect to the following permitted uses: automobile repair,
automobile sales, truck sales, truck service center, automobile and truck
laundry and washes, equipment rental and leasing, filling or service station,
and restaurant (with or without drive-through), the yard requirements as set
forth in subsection
10-9-5D of this title shall apply.
   C.   In any locations where an I-4 district is contiguous to any residential
district, including R-1, R-1A, R-2 and R-3 districts, a public street shall be
located between the two (2) districts, or in the alternative, a transition area
of at least eighty feet (80') width at all points between the respective
districts, to provide a separation area between such districts, where no
buildings shall be allowed. Such transition area may include the area of any
building setbacks required by this zoning ordinance. Provided however, that if
the use in the said I-4 district immediately adjacent to any such residential
district includes any of the following: automobile repair, automobile sales,
truck sales, truck service center, automobile and truck laundry and washes,
equipment rental and leasing, filling or service stations, or restaurant (with
or without drive-through), then such street or transition area shall not be
required for that portion of the boundary between such use and the residential
district. (Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
CHAPTER 9
H-I HIGHWAY INTERCHANGE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Permitted Uses
10-9-3: Special Uses
10-9-4: Temporary Uses
10-9-5: Property Development Standards
10-9-6: Transition Screen Requirements
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The H-I Highway Interchange District is established to provide a specialized
classification in which the development of vehicular uses, commercial and light
industrial uses are encouraged. (Ord. 230, 1987)
10-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the H-I District, plus such other uses
as the Zoning Board may deem to be similar in nature. All uses shall be subject
to the property development standards in Section
10-9-5 of this Chapter and in Section
10-3-3 of this Title. Unless otherwise specifically set forth, wherever a
permitted use is named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include
associated and similar uses as those itemized uses listed under the major
category. No building or zoning lot shall be devoted to any use other than a
use permitted hereinafter and no building or structure shall be erected,
altered, enlarged or occupied, except as a permitted use hereinafter, in the
zoning district in which such building or zoning lot shall be located, unless
otherwise specifically allowed by this Chapter:
   A.   Agricultural uses as defined in Section
10-2-1 of this Title;
   B.   All uses described in Section
10-7A-2 of this Title;
   C.   All uses described in Section
10-7B-2 of this Title except for taverns;
   D.   In addition to the foregoing, the following shall be permitted uses:
HOTELS AND MOTELS, including facilities with cocktail lounges where the primary
purpose of the business is lodging and the serving of alcoholic beverages is
incidental thereto.
RETAIL USES:
Appliance stores.
Art galleries and supply stores.
Automobile accessory stores.
Automobile repair.
Automobile vehicle sales.
Bakeries, in which the manufacture of goods is limited to goods retained on the
premises only.
Bicycle sales and service shops.
Boat and marine showroom and sales.
Business machine sales and service.
Camera and photograph supply stores.
Camper and recreational vehicle sales.
Carpet, rug and drapery shops.
Catering establishments.
Dry goods stores.
Farm stores.
Filling or service stations.
Florist, greenhouses and nurseries; retail sale.
Food stores and grocery stores.
Furniture stores.
Ice and milk machine sales.
Ice cream stores.
Motorcycle sales.
Office supply stores, including book and stationery stores.
Package liquor stores.
Restaurants, drive-ins with drive-through windows.
Restaurants, including restaurants with live entertainment, dancing and/or the
serving of alcoholic beverages, where the primary purpose of the business is
the serving of food and the serving of alcoholic beverages is incidental
thereto.
Retail business establishments, whether retail sales or retail service.
Snowmobile sales.
Sporting good stores.
Swimming pool sales and service.
Tailor and dressmaker shops.
Tire, battery and accessory sales.
Toy stores.
Truck sales.
Truck service center.
Wholesale outlet discount establishments.
OFFICE USES:
Business and professional offices.
Dental and medical offices and laboratories.
RECREATION AND SOCIAL FACILITIES:
Amusement establishments.
Bowling alleys.
Convention halls, banquet and meeting room facilities, including facilities
which serve alcoholic beverages, where the primary purpose of the facility is
the serving of food and/or provision of convention or meeting sites, and the
service of alcoholic beverages is incidental thereto.
Places of assembly, social halls, lodges, fraternal organizations.
Private clubs.
Recreational auditoriums, arenas, including those for sporting events.
Skating rinks, indoor.
Theaters, indoor or outdoor.
SERVICE USES:
Automobile driving schools.
Automobile laundries or car washes.
Automobile paint shops.
Automobile rentals.
Banks and other financial institutions, with or without drive-in facilities.
Cartage and express facilities.
Contractor's storage yard.
Currency exchanges.
Dry cleaners (pick up and delivery depot) and dry cleaning plants.
Educational institutions.
Equipment rental and leasing firms.
Funeral homes.
Hospitals, nursing homes or convalescent centers.
Houses of worship.
Landscape nurseries and garden supplies.
Laundromats.
Loan companies.
Locksmith shops.
Lumberyard.
Municipal facilities.
Municipal or government building.
Music schools.
Nursery schools and daycare centers.
Pet shops with and without boarding.
Photographic studios.
Police or fire station.
Savings and loans, with or without drive-in facilities.
Storage warehouses including light (nonindustrial) assembly.
Tire retreading and repair shops.
Warehouse and storage of grain, seed and dry fertilizer storage facilities,
including grain storage and drying.
Warehouses with or without offices. (Ord. 230, 1987; amd. Ord. 239, 1988; Ord.
525, 5-1-2007)
10-9-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit as provided for in
chapter 13 of this title:
Electronic communications transmission and reception tower.
Industrial park.
Industry, light. (Ord. 230, 1987; amd. Ord. 525, 5-1-2007; Ord. 625, 9-10-2012)
10-9-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Upon application to and issuance by the zoning administrator of a permit
therefor, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses: (Ord. 230,
1987; amd. 2000 Code)
   A.   Temporary buildings or yards for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months and may
be renewed.
   B.   Real estate development signs, advertising the sale or rental of real
property in the development on which the sign is located, not to exceed two
hundred (200) square feet for each face. Each permit shall be valid for a
period of two (2) years and may be renewed. (Ord. 230, 1987)
10-9-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The property development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
land and structures in the H-I district:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: There is no minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: There shall be no minimum lot dimensions.
   C.   Building Height: There shall be no maximum building height.
   D.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yard setback requirements are provided:
      1.   Right Of Way Setbacks: All structures shall be set back from
interstate rights of way a minimum of twenty feet (20'); and from state road
rights of way a minimum of forty feet (40');
      2.   Front Yard Setbacks: "Front yard" is defined as the frontmost area
abutting the right of way from which the lot is accessed, and all structures
shall be set back from the front property line a minimum of thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side Yards:
         a.   Interior Side Yards: An interior side yard of ten feet (10')
shall be provided on each side.
         b.   Corner Side Yard Setback: All structures shall be set back from
the side property line adjacent to the street right of way a minimum of thirty
feet (30').
      4.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard for the principal
building shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
   E.   Floor Area Ratio And Coverage:
      1.   The maximum floor area ratio shall be 2.0;
      2.   The maximum coverage on the lot shall be fifty percent (50%).
   F.   Off Street Parking: In the H-I district the following provisions shall
apply with respect to off street parking:
                                                                              3 for
Bowling alleys                                                               each
                                                                              alley
                                                                              1 for
                                                                              each 200
Community buildings and social halls                                         square
                                                                              feet of
                                                                              floor
                                                                              area
                                                                              1 for
                                                                              each 100
                                                                              square
Funeral homes, mortuaries                                                    feet of
                                                                              parlor
                                                                              floor
                                                                              area
                                                                              1 for
Hospitals, nursing homes, and convalescent homes                             each 2
                                                                              beds
                                                                              1 for
Hotels, motels                                                               each
                                                                              rental
                                                                              unit
                                                                              1 for
Manufacturing plants, research or testing laboratories, bottling plants and  each 800
warehouses                                                                    square
                                                                              feet
                                                                              1 for
Medical or dental clinics                                                    each 400
                                                                              square
                                                                              feet
                                                                              1 for
Offices (general)                                                            each 500
                                                                              square
                                                                              feet
                                                                              1 for
                                                                              each 5
Places of worship                                                            seats or
                                                                              100
                                                                              inches of
                                                                              bench
                                                                              1 for
Restaurants, bars and nightclubs                                             each 100
                                                                              square
                                                                              feet
                                                                              1 for
Retail stores, store groups, shops, etc.                                     each 300
                                                                              square
                                                                              feet
Schools:
                                                                              1 for
   Elementary school                                                      each 20
                                                                              classroom
                                                                              seats
                                                                              1 for
   Junior high school                                                     each 15
                                                                              classroom
                                                                              seats
                                                                              1 for
   Senior high school, professional business school or technical school,  each 10
studio for art, music, dancing or photography                                 classroom
                                                                              seats
                                                                              1 for
Service stations                                                             each
                                                                              employee
                                                                              1 for
Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters, assembly halls                         each 3
                                                                              seats
                                                                              1 for
                                                                              each 2
Truck terminals                                                              employees
                                                                              in
                                                                              maximum
                                                                              shift
                                                                              1 for
                                                                              each 2
Wholesale establishments (not retail)                                        employees
                                                                              in
                                                                              maximum
                                                                              shift
 
   G.   Signs: The provisions of section
10-10-5 of this title shall apply to signs in the H-I district. (Ord. 230,
1987)
   H.   Landscape Requirements: There shall be a visual screening consisting of
evergreen type hedges or shrubs or trees placed at intervals of not more than
fifty feet (50') (with the exception of driveways) with a height of not less
than three feet (3') and maintained in a good condition within five feet (5')
of the property line, along all side and rear yards and abutting the frontage
of the property. The landscaping plan shall be subject to the review of the
city. (Ord. 380, 6-14-1999)
10-9-6: TRANSITION SCREEN REQUIREMENTS:
A transition screen shall be required by this code along all lot lines in an H-
I district which are contiguous to any residential district, including R-1, R-
1A, R-2 and R-3 districts. Transition screens shall extend the full length of
such border, and shall consist of a planting screen that meets the
specifications set forth in subsection A of this section. A landscaped berm or
fence screen meeting the specifications in subsection B or C of this section
may be used in lieu of such planting screen, if a variation for such
substitution is granted by the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 380, 6-14-1999;
amd. Ord. 525, 5-1-2007)
   A.   Planting Screens: Planting screens shall consist of trees, bushes or
shrubs of a variety and so planted and kept as to meet and maintain the
following criteria, with such criteria to be achieved within thirty six (36)
months after occupancy of the premises to be screened:
      1.   Such screen shall have a minimum height of six feet (6') above grade
at any particular point along its length.
      2.   Any two foot (2') square segment of a planting screen shall contain
no more than thirty percent (30%) open space affording direct horizontal view
through such screen if such segment is over two feet (2') above grade.
   B.   Landscaped Berm: Adequate evidence from a registered engineer shall be
furnished demonstrating that the construction of such berm, along with any
necessary culverts and ditching, will not create adverse drainage and flooding
conditions on adjacent property. (Ord. 380, 6-14-1999)
      1.   Such berm shall be at least fifteen feet (15') in width at the base
and at least three feet (3') in height, as measured perpendicular to grade
level at any point along its length. Side slopes shall have a gradient no
steeper than three to one (3:1). (Ord. 395, 12-13-1999)
      2.   Side slopes of such berm shall be sodded so as to prevent erosion.
The top of the berm shall contain a planting screen according to the
specifications set forth in subsection A of this section except that the
minimum height of such planting screen need be no more than three feet (3')
above the top of the berm at any particular point along its length.
Construction and material of such berm shall be as approved by the zoning board
of appeals.
   C.   Fence Screen: A fence screen shall not be less than six feet (6') nor
more than eight feet (8') in height above grade level, at any particular point
along its length, and any two foot (2') square segment of such screen shall
contain no more than thirty percent (30%) open space affording a direct
horizontal view through such screen. Construction and material of such fence
screen shall be as approved by the zoning board of appeals.
   D.   Screening Plan: A plan for such screening, as set forth in subsections
A, B and C of this section, shall be provided to the city at the time of
submission of an application for building permit, and installation of such
screening shall be completed at the time of completion of the building, with
the exception of a planting screen, which shall have attained the standards set
forth in subsection A of this section within the time set forth herein.
   E.   Failure To Install: In the event such screens are not installed or have
not attained such standards pursuant to the terms of this section within the
period set forth herein, the zoning board of appeals may issue a cease and
desist order providing that all use of the premises terminate until the
screening requirements are met, and may assess a fine pursuant to the
applicable sections of this code, or both 1 . (Ord. 380, 6-14-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-10-1: General Regulations
10-10-2: Outdoor Advertising Structures
10-10-3: Signs In Residential Districts
10-10-4: Signs In Commercial And Industrial Districts
10-10-5: Signs In H-I Districts
10-10-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Signs and outdoor advertising structures may be erected in the zoning districts
where such use is permitted subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Traffic Obstructions: No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be
located so as to endanger the health and safety of operators of motor vehicles
on the public streets.
   B.   Lighted, Flashing Signs: Signs or advertising structures may be lighted
in a reasonable manner that makes the structure visible, but does not create
substantial glare. No sign may be erected that flashes, uses sound or other
mechanical devices, or that uses unusual lighting or other means of animation.
   C.   Projections Into Other Properties: No sign or advertising structure
shall project into the public right of way or other adjacent property. (Ord.
123, 1979)
   D.   Conflicting Provisions: In any conflict between the provisions of Title
9, Chapter 4 of this Code, and this Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter
shall prevail. In all other cases, the provisions of both Chapters shall be
binding. (2000 Code)
10-10-2: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURES:
Outdoor advertising structures are permitted in certain zoning districts for
the purpose of advertising businesses and uses not located on the premises with
the structure, subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Freestanding Signs Required: Outdoor advertising shall be freestanding
and not attached to or painted on any part of a building or premises.
   B.   Height, Area Restrictions: No outdoor advertising structure shall be
erected to have a total height greater than twenty feet (20') above the level
of the street upon which the structure faces, nor shall the signable areas of
any such outdoor advertising structure exceed one hundred fifty (150) square
feet.
   C.   Double-Frontage Signs: Double-frontage signable areas are permitted.
   D.   One Sign Per Lot: Only one outdoor advertising structure shall be
erected on any individual lot or parcel. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-10-3: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
In residential zoning districts, nonilluminated nameplates for home occupations
are permitted; provided, the nameplate does not exceed one square foot in area
and is used for indicating the name and address of the occupant or home
occupation. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-10-4: SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
In commercial and industrial zoning districts, signs are permitted for the
purpose of identifying or describing the nature or type of use located on the
premises, with the sign subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Signs may be freestanding, attached to the building or painted on the
wall of a building.
   B.   No sign shall be erected or located to have a total height greater than
twenty feet (20') above the level of the street upon which the sign faces, nor
shall the signable area of any such sign exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
   C.   Freestanding signs may contain double-frontage signable areas; however,
only one sign may be located or painted on a building or premises. (Ord. 123,
1979)
10-10-5: SIGNS IN H-I DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The regulations of this Section apply to H-
I Districts only and replace all other sign regulations of Chapter 9 of this
Title and this Chapter for such Districts. These regulations recognize the need
for a reasonable display of signs as a public service and to the conduct of
competitive commerce and industry while attempting to provide standards which
will ensure the public safety and the value and economic stability of adjoining
property and the aesthetic integrity of the area and region of which the
interchange development is a part.
   B.   Sign Restrictions: No sign shall be permitted on a lot unless:
      1.   The sign meets the conditions of this Section;
      2.   Written authorization has been received from the owner of the
property or his agent; and
      3.   The sign meets all conditions of State, County and local regulations
pertaining to the interstate highway system.
   C.   General Sign Regulations:
      1.   No sign or sign structure, other than official highway signs or
markers, shall be placed upon or within any street or highway right of way;
      2.   Sign structure or columns shall be set back a minimum of ten feet
(10') from the street line except as otherwise provided in this Section. Signs
located on a corner lot shall not be located at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets within a triangle at such intersection with two (2) sides
extending from the intersection itself along each street at least fifteen feet
(15');
      3.   Signs affixed to a building wall shall not project above the parapet
or roof line of said building.
   D.   Illumination And Motion:
      1.   No rotating beam, beacon or flashing illumination resembling an
emergency light shall be used in connection with any sign display;
      2.   Where reflecting, radiating or other illumination of signs is
permitted, light shall not project onto residential property.
   E.   Commercial Signs Restrictions: Commercial signs shall be allowed in the
H-I district, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Each business or use of the premises shall be entitled to wall
signage, directional signage and information signage.
      2.   In addition, each business or use of the premises shall be entitled
to one on-lot sign, with subject matter restricted to products, accommodations,
services or activities that are available or occur on the premises, whose pole
will not be greater than thirty five feet (35'). Such sign may be two-sided,
each side to be no greater than two hundred (200) square feet. This sign will
be installed on the same lot on which the business establishment is located.
      3.   Each business or use of the premises shall also be entitled to one
additional sign, which may be either on-lot or off-lot, whose pole will be a
maximum of seventy feet (70') in height. Such sign may be two-sided, each side
to be no greater than four hundred (400) square feet. If off-lot, the sign will
be installed in the zoning district.
      4.   Pole, tower or pylon signs may be illuminated or illuminating, but
not contain flashing, beacon or animated parts.
      5.   All signs shall be subject to the review of the Zoning Board of the
City 1 , which shall review such signs with the intention that such signage
reflect a first-class business/commercial park and will not be garish or
inconsistent with the appearance of the zoning district.
   F.   Advertising Signs, Off-Site: No off-site advertising signs or devices
shall be permitted within the H-I Zoning District, except as specifically set
forth herein.
   G.   Portable Signs And Advertising Displays:
      1.   Portable signs are prohibited except that there may be such portable
signs on parking lots as permitted by the zoning administrator which are deemed
necessary for the safe and satisfactory functioning of the lot and excepting
also that each filling station may have one portable sign, not exceeding twelve
(12) square feet in area, at opposite entrances to the station, and restricted
to solely stating the price of gasoline.
      2.   Portable advertising displays, outside of structures and located on
aprons, sidewalks, parking lots or driveways are prohibited.
   H.   Special Signs And Advertising Devices:
      1.   Temporary signs announcing the construction of new developments or
rebuilding, sale, lease or rental shall be permitted provided they comply with
the regulations of this Section.
      2.   Special events posters, including flags, pennants or bunting shall
not be permitted out-of-doors except by permit. Such a permit may be issued by
the zoning administrator for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. An
extension may be granted, however, by the zoning administrator not to exceed an
additional thirty (30) days.
   I.   Sign Design, Safety And Maintenance: All signs and sign structures
shall be designed and erected to withstand wind pressure of not less than
thirty (30) pounds per square foot. (Ord. 230, 1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code.
CHAPTER 11
OFF-STREET PARKING
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Existing Uses
10-11-3: Parking Space Requirements
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations set forth in this Chapter are established to lessen congestion
in the public streets and to set standards for the off-street parking of
vehicles, taking into consideration the particular type of use. (Ord. 123,
1979)
10-11-2: EXISTING USES:
Whenever the existing use of a building or structure erected prior to the
effective date of this Title is changed substantially to a new use, the off-
street parking requirements shall be met, or in the event the floor area,
seating capacity, number of dwelling units or other factors affecting the
parking requirements are changed. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-11-3: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
For all districts other than H-I Districts, off-street parking requirements for
the uses listed in this Section shall be provided as follows: (Ord. 123, 1979;
amd. 2000 Code)
RESIDENTIAL USES:
 Dwellings, one- and two-        2 parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
  family
 Dwellings, multiple-family      2 parking spaces for every single dwelling
                                  unit
 Hotels                          1 parking space for each dwelling unit or
                                  lodging room
 Lodging houses, rooming         1 parking space for each 2 lodging rooms
  houses and boarding houses
 Mobile homes                    2 parking spaces for each stand
 Motels, inns and auto courts    1 parking space for each guest or sleeping
                                  room or suite
RETAIL AND SERVICE USES:
 Automobile service stations     1 parking space for each 2
                                  employees
  Food or beverage establish-     1 parking space for each 300 sq. ft. of floor
 ments dispensing for consump-   area
  tion on the premises
  Furniture and appliance stores, 1 parking space shall be provided for each
 household equipment or furni-   600 sq. ft. of floor area
  ture repair shops
 Motor vehicle and machinery     1 parking space for each 300 sq. ft. of floor
  sales                           area
 Retail stores and banks         1 parking space for each 200 sq. ft. of floor
                                  area
 Theaters, indoor                1 parking space for each 5 seats
OFFICE USES:
 Business, professional and      1 parking space for each 200 sq. ft. of floor
  governmental offices            area
MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINICS:
 Medical and dental clinics      3 parking spaces for each doctor
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENTS:
  Wholesale establishments, but
 not including warehouses and    1 parking space for each 600 sq. ft. of floor
  storage buildings other than    area
  accessory
MANUFACTURING USES:
  Manufacturing uses or any
  establishments engaged in
 production, processing,         1 parking space for each 2 employees
  cleaning, servicing, testing
  or repair of materials, goods
  or products
WAREHOUSES AND STORAGE BUILDINGS:
 Warehouses and storage          1 parking space for each 2 employees
  buildings
COMMUNITY SERVICE USES:
                                  1 parking space for each 3 auditorium seats.
                                  Adequate space shall also be provided for
 Church, school, college and     buses used in connection with the activities
  other institutional auditoriums of the institution and all loading and
                                  unloading of passengers shall take place upon
                                  the premises
                                  1 parking space for each 3 employees and 1
  Colleges, universities and      parking space for each 4 students based on
 business, professional and      the minimum number students attending classes
  trade schools                   on the premises at any one time during any
                                  24-hour period
                                  1 parking space for each 2 hospital beds,
 Hospitals                       plus 1 parking space for each 2 employees
                                  other than staff doctors, plus 1 parking
                                  space for each doctor assigned to the staff
 Libraries, art galleries and    1 parking space for each 1,000 sq. ft. of
  museums - public                gross floor area
  Municipal or privately owned
 recreation buildings or         1 parking space for each 2 employees
  community centers
 Nursery, elementary and high    1 parking space for each employee
  schools
 Public utility and public       1 parking space for each 3 employees
  service uses
PLACES OF ASSEMBLY:
  Stadiums, arenas, auditoriums
  (other than church, college or
  institutional schools), con-    Parking spaces equal in number to 25% of the
 vention halls, dance halls,     capacity in persons
  exhibition halls, skating
  rinks and other similar places
  of assembly
MISCELLANEOUS USES:
 Fraternities, sororities and    1 parking space for each 5 active members
  dormitories
  Private clubs and lodges        Parking space equal in number to 10% of the
 (without sleeping facilities    capacity in persons
  for guests)
                                  1 parking space for each 4 beds, plus 1
 Rest homes and nursing homes    parking space for each 2 employees other than
                                  staff doctors, plus 1 parking space for each
                                  doctor assigned to the staff
  Sanitariums, convalescent       1 parking space for each 4 beds, plus 1
 homes or institutions for the   parking space for each 2 employees other than
  aged or for children            staff doctors, plus 1 parking space for each
                                  doctor assigned to the staff
 Theaters, automobile drive-in   Reservoir parking space equal to 10% of the
                                  vehicle capacity of such theater
 
 
(Ord. 123, 1979)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Applicability Of Provisions
10-12-2: Nonconforming Uses
10-12-3: Extension, Change Or Expansion Of Nonconforming Use
10-12-4: Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Use
10-12-5: Damages, Restoration
10-12-6: Mobile Home Limitations
10-12-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions contained in this Chapter shall apply in the same manner to a
use which may become a nonconforming use due to a later amendment to these
regulations. (Ord. 283, 1984)
10-12-2: NONCONFORMING USES:
Upon the effective date of this Title, the lawful use of a building, mobile
home or premises may be continued although such use does not conform to all the
provisions thereof, except as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 283, 1984)
10-12-3: EXTENSION, CHANGE OR EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Extension Of Use: A nonconforming use may be extended throughout a
building or mobile home provided no structural alterations are made therein.
   B.   Change To Another Use: A nonconforming use may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or greater restrictions, provided no structural
changes are made in the building or mobile home. Whenever a nonconforming use
has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed except
in accordance with the requirements of the district in which it is located.
   C.   Expansion Or Alteration Of Use: Any building, mobile home, building and
land in combination or mobile home and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use of a building or mobile home is existing, shall not hereafter
be expanded or altered in any manner except in accordance with the requirements
of this Chapter or of the district in which it is located. (Ord. 283, 1984)
10-12-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued for a period of one year, or in the case of a mobile home the
premises become vacant and remain unoccupied for a period of two (2)
consecutive months, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the uses
permitted in the district in which it is located. (Ord. 283, 1984)
10-12-5: DAMAGES, RESTORATION:
When a building or mobile home containing a nonconforming use is damaged by
fire, explosion, or other act of God, to the extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of its assessed value, it shall not be restored except in conformity with
the regulations of the district within which it is located. (Ord. 283, 1984)
10-12-6: MOBILE HOME LIMITATIONS:
A mobile home may replace an existing nonconforming mobile home within the
period set forth in Section
10-12-4 of this Chapter, but in such case the size of the replacement mobile
home must not be of greater dimension than the mobile home being replaced. Such
replacement mobile home must, in addition, meet the setback, side yard and rear
yard requirements of the district in which it is located. (Ord. 283, 1984)
CHAPTER 13
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose, Authority
10-13-2: Standards For Consideration
10-13-3: Procedures
10-13-4: Temporary Accommodation Of Mobile Units/RVs Standards And
Specifications
10-13-1: PURPOSE, AUTHORITY:
Certain types of uses may be permitted in the particular zoning districts when
special consideration has been given to the site itself and the characteristics
of surrounding property. The purpose of this Chapter is to allow the City
Council, after a recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals, the authority
to impose certain conditional standards when taking into consideration the
characteristics of the surrounding property. (Ord. 282, 1992)
10-13-2: STANDARDS FOR CONSIDERATION:
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall prepare a record of the findings of fact and
decision in each case from the evidence presented at the public hearing. The
Board shall use the following standards when considering an application for a
special use permit:
   A.   That the proposed use is consistent with the Chenoa land use plan;
   B.   That the proposed use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public
health, safety, morals, comfort or general welfare;
   C.   That the proposed use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the uses already permitted, or
substantially reduce the value of neighboring property;
   D.   That the proposed use will not impede orderly growth, development and
improvement of surrounding properties for those uses permitted in the zoning
district;
   E.   That the proposed use is provided or will be provided with adequate
utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary facilities. (Ord. 282, 1992)
10-13-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Public Hearing Required: No special use permit shall be considered
except after a public hearing has been conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals
as provided in Section
10-14-6 of this Title. (Ord. 282, 1992)
   B.   Decision Authority: After the public hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall make a recommendation to the City Council to approve or deny the
proposed special use permit. The City Council shall have the final authority to
approve any special use permits, using the same standards in considering the
application. All decisions of the City Council on special use permits are final
and not subject to review in the courts of the State. (Ord. 282, 1992; amd.
2000 Code)
10-13-4: TEMPORARY ACCOMMODATION OF MOBILE UNITS/RVs STANDARDS AND
SPECIFICATIONS:
In addition to the considerations set forth in the above section
10-13-2  the following requirements will apply to the Special Use Category of
Temporary Accommodation of Mobile Units/RVs:
   A.   The special use will be limited in duration to two (2) years or less as
decided by Council.
   B.   The area for each mobile unit or RV must be, at a minimum, twenty (20)
feet by forty (40) feet.
   C.   Manufactured homes or any other permanent structures will be considered
in violation of this special use.
   D.   A guideline of three (3) units or RVs per property will be enforced. It
is the responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate whether the property in
question can support more than three (3) units as to deviate from the
guideline.
   E.   The zoning board will reserve the right to revoke the special use after
a full hearing, in the even the landowner is found in violation of the above
provisions.
   F.   No units or RVs older than twenty (20) years will be allowed.
   G.   No pop-up campers will be allowed.
   H.   Holders of this special use will consent to the following:
      1.   Periodic sewer and water will be subject to safety inspections.
      2.   Periodic general safety inspections for power cord.
      3.   By the holders of this special use.
   I.   There will be no parking of units and RVs in violation of lot
boundaries and easements or right of ways.
   J.   In the event owners of RVs will also be parking automobiles on the
property, it will be the responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate where
the automobiles will be parked. Such parking spot shall be on an improved
surface. (Ord. 767, 7-1-2019)
CHAPTER 14
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-14-1: Administration
10-14-2: Zoning Board Of Appeals
10-14-3: Fees
10-14-4: Variations
10-14-5: Amendments
10-14-6: Public Hearings
10-14-7: Violations, Penalty
10-14-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Appointment Of Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator shall be
in charge of the administration and enforcement of this Title. He shall be
appointed by the City Council.
   B.   Duties: The zoning administrator shall:
      1.   Receive, review and issue improvement location permits in accordance
with the terms of Section
 10-3-4 of this Title.
      2.   Make the necessary site inspections to ensure compliance with this
Title.
      3.   Act as secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-14-2: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
There is hereby established the Zoning Board of Appeals for the City, with the
appointment of members, their authority, duties and powers all as prescribed in
Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code. (2000 Code)
10-14-3: FEES:
   A.   Establishment: The City Council shall establish, by separate ordinance,
a schedule of fees indicating the charges for an improvement location permit,
variations, special use permits, zoning title or zoning map amendments and
appeals. The schedule of fees may be amended by the City Council.
   B.   Schedule Of Fees: The schedule of fees and charges under the zoning
title of the City, previously enacted, shall be as follows:
 
Variations                            $75.00
Special use permits                   $50.00
Zoning text and zoning map amendments $100.00
Improvement location permits          $1.00 per $1,000.00 of value of the
                                      proposed improvement, $10.00 minimum
Fence permit                          $10.00
Appeals to Zoning Board of Appeals    No charge
Storage container permit              $10.00
 
(Ord. 126, 1979; amd. Ord. 847, 11-8-2022; Ord. 866, 1-23-2024)
10-14-4: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The Zoning Board of Appeals may permit variations in
specific cases where practical difficulties or particular hardships occur. The
Board shall do so only where the granting of such a variation would be in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of this Title.
   B.   Permissible Variations: The Board may grant variations in the following
instances only, and in no others:
      1.   To permit any yard, court, setback or line to be of less dimension
than required by the applicable regulations;
      2.   To permit any structure to exceed the height limitations imposed by
the applicable regulations;
      3.   To permit a reduction in the number of off-street parking spaces in
connection with a particular use;
      4.   To permit a reduction in the minimum ground floor area requirement
for single-family residences;
      5.   To allow increases in the maximum lot coverage in all districts;
      6.   To permit a reduction in the minimum lot area in all districts;
      7.   To permit any sign or advertising structure to exceed the height
limitations imposed by the applicable regulations;
      8.   To allow a landscaped berm or fence screen in lieu of a planting
screen in H-I Districts in meeting the transition screen requirements of said
District, if the Zoning Board of Appeals finds that such transition screens
will be of similar nature and harmonious with existing transition screens in
the neighborhood. (Ord. 123, 1979; Ord. 207, 1985; Ord. 224, 1987; Ord. 252,
1990; Ord. 380, 6-14-1999)
   C.   Standards: The Board shall use the following standards when considering
the practical difficulties or particular hardships:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      2.   That the land, structure or building involved cannot reasonably be
developed or used in accordance with the requirements of the district in which
it is located;
      3.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this Title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this Title;
      4.   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
      5.   That granting the variation requested will not give the applicant of
the property in question privileges not generally held by other property owners
or occupants in the same vicinity and district;
      6.   That the granting of the variation will be in harmony with the
purpose and intent of this Title, and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   D.   Public Hearing Required; Findings: No variation shall be granted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals except after a public hearing is conducted as provided
in Section
10-14-6 of this Chapter. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall prepare a record of
the findings of fact and decision in each case from the evidence presented at
the public hearing. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-14-5: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The regulations set forth in the text of the zoning title
and the zoning district map may be amended upon application by any person or
party, or by the City Council. This Title shall only be amended when the
proposed change promotes the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare of the residents of the City.
   B.   Standards: The Board shall use the following standards when considering
amendments to the this Title:
      1.   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by the
existing zoning;
      2.   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by the
proposed zoning;
      3.   The existing land uses of nearby property;
      4.   Existing zoning of nearby property;
      5.   Whether the petitioned zoning change is in the best interest of the
general public or is solely for the benefit of the petitioner.
   C.   Public Hearing Required: No zoning text amendment or zoning district
map amendment shall be considered except after a public hearing has been
conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals as provided in Section
10-14-6 of this Chapter. The Board shall prepare a record of the findings of
fact and decision in each case from the evidence presented at the public
hearing. (Ord. 123, 1979)
   D.   Decision Authority: After the public hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall make a recommendation to the City Council to approval or deny the
proposed amendment. The City Council shall have the final authority to approve
any amendments to the zoning district map or the zoning text. All decisions of
the City Council on amendments are final and not subject to review in the
courts of the State. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. 2000 Code)
10-14-6: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Application Filing: All applications for a variation, special use
permit and zoning text or zoning district map amendment shall be filed with the
City Clerk. The City Clerk shall forward the applications to the Zoning Board
of Appeals for processing.
   B.   Public Notice Requirements: No variation, special use permit or zoning
text or zoning district map amendment shall be processed except after a public
hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals. Public notice stating the time and
place of the public hearing shall be published at least once, not more than
thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days, before the public hearing in one
or more newspapers published in the City, or in one or more newspapers of
general circulation, if a newspaper is not published in the City.
   C.   Publication Costs: The costs or charges of the publication notice shall
be paid by the applicant. (Ord. 123, 1979)
10-14-7: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY:
Any person, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this Title shall, upon conviction, be fined as
provided in the general penalty in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day that a violation is allowed to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 123, 1979; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 15
SOLAR ENERGY CODE
SECTION:
10-15-1: Short Title
10-15-2: Purpose
10-15-3: Applicability
10-15-4: Definitions
10-15-5: Installations Allowed As A Permitted Use
10-15-6: Installations Allowed As A Special Use
10-15-7: Prohibited Installations
10-15-8: No Restriction On Other Properties
10-15-9: Requirements For All Solar Energy Systems
10-15-10: Requirements For Private Solar Energy Systems
10-15-11: Requirements For Commercial Solar Energy Systems
10-15-12: Decommissioning A Commercial Solar Energy System
10-15-13: Liability Insurance
10-15-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This division may be cited as the Solar Energy Code.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-2: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this section is to facilitate the construction, installation,
and operation of solar energy systems in the City of Chenoa in a manner that
promotes economic development and ensures the health, safety, and welfare of
the public while also avoiding adverse impacts on adjoining property owners or
the environment.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-3: APPLICABILITY:
   This division does not apply to any solar energy system with solar panels
that, in the aggregate, do not exceed four square feet.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this division:
                                    A structure or use that is on the same
                                    lot with, incidental to, and subordinate
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE:                to the main or principal structure or
                                    use, and that is used for purposes
                                    customarily incidental to the main or
                                    principal structure or use.
                                    A solar energy system that integrates
BUILDING INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY    photovoltaic modules into the building
SYSTEM:                             structure, such as the roof or facade,
                                    and that does not alter the relief of
                                    the roof.
COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:     A solar energy system that is not a
                                    private solar energy system.
                                    A solar energy system that is directly
GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: installed onto the ground and is not
                                    attached or affixed to any existing
                                    structure.
OWNER:                              The owner of the property on which the
                                    solar energy system is located.
                                    A solar energy system that is an
                                    accessory structure and that is designed
PRIVATE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:        to serve through the electric meter only
                                    the occupants of the parcel on which it
                                    is located.
                                    A trained and qualified electrical
                                    professional who has the skills and
                                    knowledge related to the construction
QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER:          and operation of solar electrical
                                    equipment and installations and has
                                    received safety training on the hazards
                                    involved.
                                    A solar energy system in which solar
                                    panels are mounted on top of a building
ROOF MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:     roof as either a flush-mounted system or
                                    as modules fixed to frames which can be
                                    tilted toward the south at an optimal
                                    angle.
                                    Has the meaning set forth in section 10
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:                of the Homeowner's Energy Policy
                                    Statement Act (765 ILCS 165-10).
ZONING:                             Refers to the City of Chenoa Zoning
                                    Board.
ZONING CODE:                        Title 10 of the City of Chenoa Code.
 
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-5: INSTALLATIONS ALLOWED AS A PERMITTED USE:
   A.   A private, roof mounted solar-energy system is allowed as a permitted
use in the following zoning districts:
      1.   AG (Agricultural).
      2.   R-1 (Single Family Residence), R-1A (Single-family manufactured home
residential district), R-2 (Medium Density Residential), R-3 (High Density
Residential), and MH (Mobile Home).
      3.   C-1 (Local Business), C-2 (Central Business).
      4.   I-1 (Light Industrial), I-2 (General Industrial), I-3 (Highway
Interchange Industrial District), I-4 (Highway Interchange Industrial and
highway use).
   B.   A private, ground-mount solar-energy-system is allowed as a permitted
use in the following zoning districts:
      1.   AG (Agricultural).
      2.   R-1 (Single Family Residence), R-1A (Single-family manufactured home
residential district), R-2 (Medium Density Residential), R-3 (High Density
Residential), and MH (Mobile Home).
      3.   I-1 (Light industrial), I-2 (General industrial), I-3 (Highway
Interchange Industrial District), I-4 (Highway interchange industrial and
highway use).
   C.   Private, building integrated solar systems are permitted in all zoning
districts as a permitted use.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-6: INSTALLATIONS ALLOWED AS A SPECIAL USE:
   A.   A private, ground mount solar energy system is allowed as a special use
in the following zoning districts:
      1.   C-1 (Local Business), C-2 (Central Business).
   B.   A commercial ground mount or roof mount solar energy system is allowed
as a special use in the following districts:
      1.   A (Agricultural).
      2.   I-1 (Light Industrial), I-2 (General Industrial).
      3.   R-1 (Single-family), R-1A (Single-family manufactured home), R-2
(Medium Density Residential), R-3 (Higher density residential district).
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-7: PROHIBITED INSTALLATIONS:
   Any solar energy system that is not allowed as a permitted use under section
10-15-5 or as a special use under section
10-15-6 is prohibited.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-8: NO RESTRICTION ON OTHER PROPERTIES:
   The allowance of a solar energy system under this division will not be
construed to restrict the use or improvement of any adjoining or other property
owner from any allowed building, landscaping, or other accessory improvements,
even if such improvements may diminish the function of said solar energy
system.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-9: REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Regulatory Compliance. Each solar energy system requires a permit from
Zoning. Each solar energy system must comply with all federal, state, and local
laws, rules, and regulations, including, without limitation, all building
codes, electrical codes, health and safety rules and regulations, environmental
rules and regulations, and aviation rules and regulations.
   B.   Reflection Angles. Reflection angles for solar collectors must be
oriented in such a manner that they do not project glare onto adjacent
properties or roadways.
   C.   Visibility. Solar energy systems must be located in a manner to
reasonably minimize view blockage to surrounding properties and to minimize
shading of property to the north while still providing adequate solar access
for collectors.
   D.   Wiring Concealment. All wiring associated with the system must be
underground, within the structure, or contained within a raceway that
complements the site or the building materials of the principal structure.
   E.   Installation. All solar energy systems must be installed by a qualified
solar installer.
   F.   Maintenance. All solar energy systems must be maintained and kept in
good working order. If it is determined by Zoning that a solar energy system is
not being maintained, kept in good working order, or is no longer being
utilized to perform its intended purpose for six consecutive months, the
property owner will be given 90-day written notice to remedy or to remove the
unit and all equipment.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-10: REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIVATE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Height requirements for roof mount solar energy systems.
      1.   The height of a roof mount solar energy system is measured from the
roof surface on which the system is mounted to the highest edge of the system.
      2.   A roof mount solar energy system may not cause a building to exceed
the maximum allowed building height for the zoning district in which the system
is located.
      3.   Solar energy systems mounted on a pitched roof may not extend beyond
six inches (6") parallel to the roof surface of the pitched roof.
      4.   In R-1 and R-2 zoning districts, solar energy systems mounted on a
flat roof must be concealed by a parapet. In all other districts, solar energy
systems mounted on a flat roof may not extend beyond four feet (4') parallel to
the roof surface of the flat roof.
   B.   Height Requirements for Ground Mount Solar Energy Systems.
      1.   The height of a ground mount solar energy system is measured from
the grade at the base of the pole or other mounting structure to the highest
edge of the system at maximum tilt.
      2.   Ground mount systems may not exceed four feet (4') if they are
located (i) within R-1, R-1A, and R-2 zoning districts or (ii) within one
hundred feet (100') from the property line of any single or multiple-family
residence.
      3.   Ground mount systems other than those limited under section
10-15-10(B)(2) may not exceed fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Size and Setback Requirements.
      1.   For roof mount solar energy systems, the total square footage of the
system panels may not exceed the total area of the roof surface of the
structure to which the system is attached. The panels and mounting devices may
not extend beyond the perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted,
but roofing tiles and shingles may extend to the edge of the roof eaves.
      2.   System panels mounted on the sides of building and serving as
awnings are considered to be building integrated systems and will be regulated
as awnings.
      3.   Ground mount solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure
setbacks for the zoning district in which the system is located.
      4.   Ground mount solar energy systems may not extend into a setback at
any design tilt.
      5.   Ground mount solar energy systems in any residential district may be
located in a rear yard only.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-11: REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Site Plan Required. A permit application for a commercial solar energy
system must include a site plan with existing conditions showing all of the
following:
      1.   Existing property lines and property lines extending one hundred
feet (100') from the exterior boundaries, including the names of adjacent
property owners and the current uses of those properties. All commercial solar
energy systems must be located on a recorded lot of record.
      2.   All ingress and egress routes that will be used for the construction
and maintenance purposes.
      3.   The location and size of any abandoned wells or sewage treatment
systems.
      4.   Existing buildings and impervious surfaces.
      5.   A contour map showing topography at two-foot (2') intervals. A
contour map of surrounding properties may also be required.
      6.   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage: i.e.,
cropland/plowed fields, grassland, wooded areas, etc.).
      7.   Any delineated wetland boundaries.
      8.   A copy of the current FEMA FIRM maps that shows the subject property
including the 100-year flood elevation and any regulated flood protection
elevation, if available.
      9.   Surface water drainage patterns.
      10.   Storm water detention, erosion control, and storm sewer drainage
accommodations in accordance with City Code. Ground areas covered by solar
panels and equipment will be considered impervious areas, and the runoff
coefficient ("C" value) for storm-water design will be 0.95, regardless of the
ground-surface under the solar panel and equipment.
      11.   The location of any subsurface drainage tiles.
      12.   Location and spacing of the solar collector.
      13.   Location of underground and overhead electric lines connecting the
solar farm to a building, substation or other electric load.
      14.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substations that is to be the connection point for the solar farm.
   B.   Manufacturers' Specifications. A permit application for a commercial
solar energy system must include all manufacturer's specifications and
recommended installation methods for all major equipment, including solar
collectors, mounting systems and foundations for poles and racks.
   C.   Connection and Interconnection. A permit application for a commercial
solar energy system must include all of the following:
      1.   A description of the method of connecting the solar array to a
building or substation.
      2.   Utility interconnection details and a copy of written notification
to the utility company requesting the proposed interconnection.
   D.   A permit application for a commercial solar energy system must include
a fire protection plan for the construction and the operation of the facility,
and emergency access to the site.
   E.   Setbacks. Zoning Code setback rules apply.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-12: DECOMMISSIONING A COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:
   A.   If a solar energy system is out of service or not producing electrical
energy for a period of 12 months, then it will be deemed to be nonoperational.
A nonoperational commercial solar energy system is hereby deemed to be a public
nuisance.
   B.   A permit application for a commercial solar energy system must include
a decommissioning plan for the anticipated service life of the commercial solar
energy system or in the event the system is abandoned or has reached its life
expectancy. If the system is out of service or not producing electrical energy
for a period of twelve (12) months, then it will be deemed to be
nonoperational, and the decommissioning and removal of that system will
commence according to the decommissioning plan as provided and approved. A cost
estimate for the decommissioning of the system must be prepared by a
professional engineer or contractor who has expertise in the removal of the
solar energy system. The decommissioning cost estimate must explicitly detail
the cost before considering any projected salvage value of the out of service
solar farm. A restoration plan must also be provided for the site with the
application. The decommissioning plan must include the removal of the following
within six (6) months after the system became non-operational:
      1.   All solar collectors and components, above ground improvements and
outside storage.
      2.   Foundations, pads and underground electrical wires at reclaim site
to a depth of four feet (4') below ground surface.
      3.   Hazardous material from the property and dispose in accordance with
federal and state law.
   C.   Prior to any installation, the owner shall provide to the City a surety
instrument in the amount of the cost estimate set forth under section 10-15-
12B. The surety instrument must be in the form of a surety bond, letter of
credit, or cash bond and be in a form and manner acceptable to Zoning. The
surety instrument must provide the security to the City if the owner fails to
decommission the system in accordance with the decommissioning plan.
   D.   If the owner fails to decommission the system as required under the
decommissioning plan, then, upon reasonable notice, the City or its agents may
enter the property to complete the decommissioning with the reasonable cost to
be paid by the owner.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
10-15-13: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   The owner of a commercial solar energy system shall, at all times the
system is located at the site, maintain a general liability policy covering
bodily injury and property damage with limits of at least one million
($1,000,000) per occurrence and five million ($5,000,000) in the aggregate.
   B.   All policies, except policies for professional liability, must be
written on an occurrence basis. All policies must be written with insurance
carriers who are qualified to do business in the State of Illinois and who are
rated A-VII or better in the latest Best's Key Rating Guide. All policies must
be written on the most current Insurance Service Office (ISO) or National
Council on Compensation Insurance (NCCI) form or a manuscript form if coverage
is broader than the ISO or NCCI form.
   C.   The City of Chenoa and its officers and employees must be named as an
additional insured party on the general-liability policy. The City's interest
as an additional insured party must be on a primary and non-contributory basis
on all policies and be noted as such on the insurance certificates. City has a
right to request proof of insurance at any time.
   D.   The policy must give the City at least thirty (30) days' notice prior
to any change, cancellation, or non-renewal except in the case of cancellation
for non-payment of premium, in which case the notice must be made ten (10) days
before the cancellation. Any renewal certificate of insurance must be
automatically provided to the City at least thirty (30) days prior to the
policy expiration. If a self-insured retention or a deductible is maintained on
any of the policies, then the amount of the retention or deductible is subject
to approval by the City; the City may not unreasonably withhold the approval.
   E.   Prior to any work at the site, the owner shall provide the City with
certificates of insurance showing evidence that the insurance policies required
under this section are in full force and effect.
(Ord. 867, 2-13-2024)
CHAPTER 16
EXTERIORS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose
10-16-2: Metal Siding
10-16-3: Metal Siding Development Standards
10-16-4: Enforcement
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
   This section is established to govern the exterior look of properties in the
various districts throughout the City and to preserve the unique and historical
characteristics of certain zoning districts.
(Ord. 871, 8-13-2024)
10-16-2: METAL SIDING:
   Metal siding shall be allowed in all districts based on the following
coverages:
   A.   For all allowable structures in the AG Agriculture District, metal
siding will be allowed on one hundred percent (100%) of all primary and
accessory buildings.
   B.   For all allowable structures in Residential District R-1A Single Family
Manufactured Home Residential District, metal siding will be all on one hundred
percent (100%) of the exterior existing structures.
   C.   For all allowable structures in Residential District R-1 Single Family
and R-2 Medium Density and Residential District R-3 Higher Density Residential,
metal siding will be allowed on one hundred percent (100%) of the exterior of
accessory buildings and, zero percent (0%) of the exterior primary structures
with an exception of horizontal residential siding that is approved by the
Zoning Board.
   D.   For all allowable structures in C-1 Local Business District, metal
siding will be allowed on no more than fifty percent (50%) of the exterior
facade of the existing structures.
   E.   For all allowable structures in C-2 Central Business District, metal
siding will be allowed on no more than fifty percent (50%) of the exterior
facade of the existing structures.
   F.   For all allowable structures in Industrial District, metal siding will
be allowed on one hundred percent (100%) of the exterior the existing
structures.
   G.   For all allowable structures in the H-I Highway Interchange District,
metal siding will be allowed on 100% of the exterior of the existing
structures.
(Ord. 871, 8-13-2024)
10-16-3: METAL SIDING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Reflective surfaces, the use of highly reflective surfaces in
Residential and Commercial Districts with reflective roofs with a pitch of more
than a run of seven (7) and a rise of twelve (12), is prohibited. This
prohibition does not apply to copper or painted metal roofs.
   B.   Exterior colors in the Commercial Districts are limited to low to
medium saturated chroma, as explained in the Munsell System of Color Notation
for primary building colors. Highly saturated colors may be used for accent or
trim. In all other instances, approval by the Zoning Board will be required.
   C.   For all Districts, the use of metal surfaces subject to rust or
corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion
(Ord. 871, 8-13-2024).
10-16-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   All violation of this Section shall be subject to enforcement through
Title 10, Chapter 14 including the violations and penalties as set forth under
Section
10-14-7.
(Ord. 871, 8-13-2024)
TITLE 11
LAND SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Jurisdiction
11-1-2: Policy
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Reserved
11-1-5: Rules Of Construction
11-1-6: Definitions
11-1-7: Interpretation, Conflict And Separability
11-1-8: Saving Provision
11-1-9: Amendments
11-1-10: Conditions
11-1-11: Resubdivision Of Land
11-1-12: Vacation Of Plats
11-1-13: Variations
11-1-14: Obligation To Comply
11-1-15: Violation; Penalties
11-1-16: Land Trusts; Disclosures Of Beneficial Interests
11-1-1: JURISDICTION:
These regulations apply to every "subdivision" (as defined herein) occurring
inside the corporate limits of the city of Chenoa, Illinois, or occurring in
the unincorporated areas within one and one-half (11/2) miles from the city's
corporate limits, as those limits exist at the time the subdivision occurs.
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-2: POLICY:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider
subdivisions and planned unit developments and the subsequent development
thereof as subject to the control of the city pursuant to the city of Chenoa
comprehensive plan for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical
development of the city.
   B.   Land to be subdivided or developed as a planned unit development shall
be of such character that it can be used safely for building purposes without
danger to health or peril from fire, flood, or other menace, and land should
not be subdivided or developed as a planned unit development until available
public facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities and improvements.
   C.   The existing and proposed public improvements should conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown on the comprehensive plan and official
comprehensive map, and the capital improvements program of the city, and it is
intended that this title shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the
provisions and standards contained in the city of Chenoa comprehensive plan and
the capital improvements program of the city. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   Because every subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of these
regulations is or may become a part of the city of Chenoa and because each has
or may have an impact on services provided by the city, as well as on services
provided by other governmental units serving the community, this title is
adopted for the following purposes:
      1.   To protect, provide and promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the city;
      2.   To guide the future growth and development of the city, in
accordance with the city of Chenoa comprehensive plan;
      3.   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety
from fire, flood, and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population;
      4.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the city and to encourage the orderly and harmonious development
of all parts of the community;
      5.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the city and
the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
      6.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to secure a
uniform system of utilities and services including adequate and efficient
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation and
other public requirements and facilities;
      7.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the city, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building setback lines;
      8.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
      9.   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision and areas reasonably
anticipated to be served by such facilities;
      10.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city in order
to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the community and the value
of the land;
      11.   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city and to
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features;
      12.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for
minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as
established in the city's zoning ordinance. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-5: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in this title shall be interpreted in accordance with
the following rules of construction, unless the context clearly requires a
different construction:
   A.   The singular includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future and the future includes
the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive, and
"should" is strongly recommended, but not mandatory.
   D.   Terms connoting a particular gender include each and every other
gender.
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof,
and any word appearing in the parenthesis between a word and its definition
shall be construed in the same sense as that word.
   F.   All words and terms not defined herein shall be construed in their
generally accepted meaning. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, whenever they occur in this title, shall be
interpreted as herein defined:
ABUTTING (CONTIGUOUS, ADJACENT): Having one or more common boundary lines or
district lines.
ALLEY: A public right of way which is less than thirty feet (30') wide and
affords a secondary means of access to abutting property. Frontage on an alley
shall not be construed as satisfying the requirements related to frontage on a
public street.
BASEMENT: The story of a building which is partly below and partly above grade,
and having at least one-half (1/2) its height above grade.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a street or streets and any
combination of boundary lines of publicly or institutionally owned lands,
railroad rights of way, rivers and lakes and/or other lines of demarcation. A
block may be located in part within an incorporated city or the city of Chenoa,
Illinois.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot, or other parcel of land, so
designated on the preliminary plan and final plat, which denotes the area
between such line and the adjacent street right of way line where an enclosed
building, and other obstructions are prohibited, except those permitted
obstructions as regulated by title 10 of this code.
CENTERLINE: A. The centerline of any right of way having uniform width;
   B.   The original centerline, where a right of way has been widened
irregularly;
   C.   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
CITY: The city of Chenoa, Illinois.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of Chenoa, Illinois, or the duly authorized
representative.
CITY COUNCIL: The mayor and commissioners of Chenoa, Illinois.
CITY ENGINEER: The individual and/or consulting engineering firm for the city
of Chenoa, Illinois, or his/her duly authorized representative.
CITY OF CHENOA COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The composite of the functional and
geographic elements of the comprehensive plan of the city of Chenoa, or any
segment thereof in the form of plans, maps, charts, textual materials and the
official map, as adopted by the planning commission.
COLLECTION TILE SYSTEM: A tile system serving individual lots for the purpose
of receiving water discharged from sources such as footing tiles and water
softeners.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street within a subdivision which has a wider roadway width
than a minor street, and which is the prime entrance or circulation street. Its
primary function is to distribute and collect traffic to and from the minor
street.
CONDUIT: A buried pipe for the installation of wires or cables or the
conveyance of gas, water, storm water or wastewater.
CONTRACTOR: An individual, company, firm or other party or organization who
contracts to physically construct all or a portion of a project for either a
developer or the city.
CRADLE: Bedding placed under and around a conduit for proper support.
CROSS SLOPE: The degree of inclination measured across pavements rather than
longitudinal.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet.
DEDICATE: Transfer of ownership of right of way.
DESIGN ENGINEER: The individual, responsible for the design and preparation of
plans, specifications and contract documents. This individual must be a
licensed professional engineer in Illinois.
DEVELOPER: See definition of Owner.
DEVELOPMENT: Both the act of changing and the state of a tract of land after
its function has been purposefully changed by man including, but not limited
to, construction of structures on the land, and alterations to the land, except
grading that does not alter the natural flow of storm water.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE (THROUGH) LOT: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines
along two (2) substantially parallel streets.
DRAINAGEWAY, IMPROVED: A portion of a right of way or easement used or intended
principally for storm, surface or ground water drainage which meets or exceeds
the design and/or construction standards for public drainageways.
DRAINAGEWAY, UNIMPROVED: A portion of land used or intended principally for
storm, surface or ground water drainage which does not meet or exceed the
design and/or construction standards for public drainageways.
DRIVEWAY: A private accessway for motor vehicles between a public or private
street and one or more structures or off street parking areas.
DWELLING: A building designed or used principally for residential occupancy,
including, without limitation, single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings
and multiple-family dwellings.
EASEMENT: A quantity of land set aside in which a liberty, privilege, or
advantage in land without profit, is dedicated and is distinct from fee
ownership of the land, is granted either to the public, a particular person, a
utility company or a combination thereof.
ENGINEER: A licensed professional engineer licensed by the state of Illinois.
ESCROW DEPOSIT: A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure the
completion of improvements within a subdivision or planned unit development.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
FIELD INSPECTOR: An individual, company or firm appointed by the city engineer
to inspect construction to ensure compliance with approved plans and
specifications.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
humans to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A final plan that is required to be submitted to the
city clerk as specified in the planned unit development regulations.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after the
grading work is completed in accordance with the approved engineering plans.
FINAL PLAT: A map or plan of a subdivision and any accompanying material as
described hereafter.
FINAL PUNCH LIST: A tabulation of deficiencies requiring corrective action
prior to final acceptance of a project.
FLOOD: A general or temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
FLOOD ROUTE: A designed strip or piece of land which will receive the excess
surface runoff not accommodated by storm sewer or other drainage facilities.
FRONTAGE: The measure of lineal contiguity between a lot or portion thereof and
another lot, public street, alley or public way.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A local street which is parallel to and either contiguous to,
adjacent to, or within the right of way of an arterial street.
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS): A computer system maintained by
Bloomington, Normal and McLean County that stores and links nongraphic
attributes or geographically referenced data with graphic map features to allow
a wide range of information processing and display operations, as well as map
production, analysis and modeling.
HALF STREET: A street of less than the total required width.
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (IDOT): The division of state government
identified by this name.
LAND IMPROVEMENT: Any sanitary sewerage system, storm sewer system, water
access strip, off street parking area, or other improvement which the city may
require under this title.
LIVE STORAGE: That volume available in a storm water detention/retention basin
for runoff in accordance with the requirements of this title.
LOT: A quantity of land capable of being described with such definition that
its location and boundaries may be established and which is designated by its
owner or developer as land to be conveyed, used or developed as a unit or which
has been conveyed, used or developed as a unit, including any easements
appurtenant thereto. Such lot shall have frontage on a public or private
street.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side, and rear lot lines.
LOT, BUTT: A lot at the end of a block and located between two (2) corner lots.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets. A
lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle less than one hundred
thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: Any distance between the midpoints of straight lines connecting the
foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost points of the
side lot lines in the rear.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
(2) substantially parallel streets.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot which faces on one street or with opposite sides on two
(2) streets.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the McLean County recorder of deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been legally recorded.
LOT, THROUGH: "Through lot" means a lot other than a corner lot with frontage
on more than one street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may be referred
to as double frontage lots.
MEDIAN: An area between opposite traffic lanes of a street or roadway.
MINOR STREET: A street of limited continuity. Its primary purpose is to serve
abutting properties.
MONUMENT: A. Section corner monumentation.
   B.   Property line monumentation.
   C.   GIS monumentation.
NO ACCESS STRIP: A land area at least three feet (3') wide along a lot line
within which no vehicular driveways shall be permitted.
OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (COMPREHENSIVE PLAN): The composite of the
functional and geographic elements of the comprehensive plan of the city of
Chenoa, or any segment thereof in the form of plans, maps, charts, textual
materials and the official map, as adopted by the city council.
OFFICIAL MAP: The map adopted by the planning commission as part of the city of
Chenoa comprehensive plan which is designated "comprehensive plan and official
map" in that plan.
OUTLOT: A lot depicted on a final subdivision plat which does not meet the
requirements of this title for lots of record and which may not be used for
buildings and parking lots.
OWNER: Any person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public
or quasi-public corporation who will be responsible for paying the cost of the
project, or a combination of any of them, or other legal entity having
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided or
developed to commence and maintain proceedings under the provisions of this
title.
PARCEL: All contiguous land used or legally described and recorded as a single
unit.
PARKING LOT: An area not on public right of way, exclusive of driveways, which
is used for the parking of motor vehicles.
For purposes of computing the number of parking spaces in a lot, all areas used
for parking under unified control on the same or contiguous parcels of land
shall be considered as one lot.
PARKING SPACE/PAD: A parking pad is an off street parking area adjacent to a
driveway which provides parking for a single motor vehicle.
PARKWAY (SIDE STRIP): The unpaved strip of land within a street right of way
between a curb and right of way line.
PAVEMENT: A portion of the street designated for vehicular use measured from
face of curb to face of curb or edge to edge of paved street surface where
there are no curbs.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way or easement across or within a block designated
for pedestrian use.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A lot or group of lots which is developed as a unit
under single ownership or unified control, which includes one or more principal
buildings or uses, and is processed under the planned unit development
procedure of this title.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission or plan commission of Chenoa,
Illinois. The city council may act as the planning commission with respect to
any proposed or existing subdivision, and in those instances all references to
the planning commission herein shall refer to the city council.
PRELIMINARY PLAN: A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision as
described in this title.
PROJECT: All of the various parts of proposed construction submitted to the
city engineer for approval.
PROPERTY LINE: The lines bounding a lot or parcel and delineating the land in
individual ownership.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Includes streets, sidewalks, public utilities and other
structures, fixtures or land appurtenances which are or are intended to be
dedicated to the city of Chenoa and the public generally.
RELEASE RATE: The controlled rate at which storm water is released from a storm
water detention/retention basin, not including overflow.
RESERVE: To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition by
the city (or other government entity) for public purposes.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated to or used by the public for vehicular
and/or pedestrian passage; storm, surface or ground water drainage; or public
utility placement.
ROADWAY: A portion of a right of way used or intended principally for vehicular
passage, with appurtenant drainage ditches, ways or structures which does not
meet or exceed the design standards for the classification it holds.
SETBACK: The minimum longitudinal distance between the building line or
structure and the related front, side or rear property line.
SETBACK LINE: A line shown on a plat delineating a setback.
SIDE STRIP: The unpaved strip of land within a right of way and is parallel to
the roadway.
SIDEWALK: A portion of a right of way used or intended principally for
pedestrian passage, which meets or exceeds the design standards for public
sidewalks.
STORM FREQUENCY: The frequency of occurrence of a rainfall representing the
number of years in which a rain of that magnitude, or larger, will occur.
Statistically, it represents the probability of occurrence of a storm event,
e.g., 100-year frequency storm has one percent (1%) probability in any given
year, 5-year frequency storm has twenty percent (20%) probability.
STORM WATER DETENTION BASIN: A reservoir designed and built for temporary
storage of surface runoff, either on, below or above ground surface accompanied
by controlled release of the entire stored water.
STORM WATER RETENTION BASIN: A wet bottom reservoir designed and built for the
temporary storage of surface runoff, above normal water level of the reservoir,
accompanied by controlled release of the part of the stored water above normal
water level of the facility.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
floor and upper surface of the floor or roof next above. A basement shall be
counted as a story, and a cellar shall not be counted as a story, unless it
contains a dwelling unit.
STREET: That portion of a public or private right of way used and maintained by
a public entity which affords the public the principal means of access to
adjacent lots of record or property and meets the design and construction
standards for the classification it holds.
STREET, ARTERIAL: An arterial street has a high average daily traffic (ADT) and
is not intended to be a residential street. An arterial street provides
connection with major state and interstate roadways and has a high potential
for the location of significant community facilities as well as retail,
commercial, and industrial facilities.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A collector street functions to conduct traffic between
arterial streets and/or activity centers. It is a principal traffic artery
within residential areas and carries moderate volumes of traffic. (A collector
street has potential for sustaining minor retail or other commercial
establishments along its route which will influence the traffic flow.)
STREET, EXTERIOR: A street on the perimeter of a subdivision.
STREET, INTERIOR: A street entirely within the confines of a subdivision.
STREET, LOCAL: A local street is a short street, cul-de-sac, or court. The
primary purpose of a local street is to conduct traffic to and from dwelling
units or businesses to other streets within the hierarchy of streets.
STREET STANDARDS AND CLASSIFICATIONS: The current Illinois department of
transportation classifications and standards as modified by the city council
pertaining to requirements for streets, as from time to time amended.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the right of way lines of a given
street.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
or temporary location on or in the ground including, but not limited to,
buildings, fences, gazebos, signs, billboards, supporting tower, and swimming
pools.
SUBDIVIDE: a) The division of land into two (2) or more lots, parcels, or
tracts; b) the dedication of streets, ways, or other areas for use of the
public; c) any division of land which creates more than one additional lot for
transfer or ownership and/or building development, or where a new street is
involved, or additional utilities, such as sewer or water trunk lines are
involved; d) any development of property adjacent to a street which street does
not comply with the city's standards for new street construction or right of
way width; or e) meets the definition of a planned unit development; or f) long
term lease for new development.
SUBDIVIDER: Any owner commencing proceedings under this title.
SUBDIVISION: The configuration of lots of record, outlots, public rights of way
and public improvements which result from subdividing land in accordance with
the procedures, requirements and standards of this title.
TRAIL: That portion of public right of way separated from the roadway intended
for multipurpose, nonmotorized transportation and recreational use.
UNIFIED CONTROL: The combination of two (2) or more tracts of land of either
through unified ownership or other arrangements, wherein each owner has agreed
to allow use and develop their tracts as a single lot under the provisions of
the ordinance applicable to planned unit developments.
USE: The use of property is the purpose or activity for which the land, or
building thereon, is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is
occupied or maintained, and shall include any manner of performance of such
activity with respect to the regulations of the city of Chenoa zoning code.
VACATE: To terminate the legal existence of right of way or easement or
subdivision, and to so note on the final plat recorded with the McLean County
recorder of deeds.
WALKWAY: A portion of a right of way used or intended principally for
pedestrian passage which does not meet or exceed the design standards for
public sidewalk.
WATERSHED: That land area from which all runoff from rainfall would eventually
reach the point in question by flowing over the surface of the ground or
through existing improvements.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The zoning administrator of Chenoa, Illinois, or his duly
authorized representative.
ZONING MAP: The official zoning map is the map adopted by the city council
showing all the zoning district boundaries within the city of Chenoa, Illinois.
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-7: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY:
In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the health, safety and
general welfare.
   A.   Conflict With Public And Private Provisions:
      1.   Public Provisions: The regulations in this title are not intended to
interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation, statute or other provision of law. Where any provisions of this
title imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision
of this title or any other resolution, ordinance, rule or regulation, or other
provision of law; whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher
standards shall control.
      2.   Private Provisions: The regulations in this title are not intended
to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or
restriction, provided that where the provisions of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such easement,
covenant, or other private agreement or restriction; the requirements of this
title shall govern.
   B.   Separability: If any part or provision of this title or application
thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation to the
part, provision, or application directly involved in all controversy in which
such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the
validity of the remainder of this title or the application thereof to other
persons or circumstances. The city council hereby declares that it would have
enacted the remainder of this title even without any such part, provision, or
application. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-8: SAVING PROVISION:
This title shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under, or
by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as discontinuing,
abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as
affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any
right of the city under any section or provision existing at the time of
adoption of this title, or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any
person, firm, or corporation, by lawful action of the city except as shall be
expressly provided for in this title. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-9: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of providing the public health, safety, and general welfare,
the city council may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by these
subdivision regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be
held by the city's planning commission in the manner prescribed by law. (Ord.
542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-10: CONDITIONS:
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid power delegated by the
state of Illinois to the city. The subdivider or owner has the duty of
compliance with reasonable conditions laid down by the city for design,
dedication, improvement, and restrictive use of land so as to conform to the
physical and economical development of the city and to the safety and general
welfare of the future owners of lots in the subdivision. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-11: RESUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Procedure For Resubdivision: For any change in a recorded plat of a
subdivision, if such change affects any street layout shown on such plat, or
affects any area reserved thereon for public use, or affects any lot line, such
change shall be reviewed by the planning commission and the city council by the
same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision as provided by this
title.
   B.   Procedure For Subdivisions Where Future Resubdivision Is Indicated:
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
such lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller lots, the city shall
require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of streets and
the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Right of way dedications providing
for the future opening and extension of such streets shall be made a
requirement of the plat. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-12: VACATION OF PLATS:
In accordance with state law, any plat or part thereof may be vacated by the
owner of the parcel, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by written
vacation instrument to which a copy of the plat is attached. If there are
public service facilities in any street, or other public way, or easement shown
on said plat, the instrument shall reserve to the city or other public entity
or public utility owning such facilities the property, rights of way, and
easements necessary for continuing public service by means of those facilities
and for maintaining or reconstructing the same. The vacation instrument shall
be approved by the city council in the same manner as plats of subdivision, and
shall also be approved by the public utilities involved. In the case of platted
parcels wherein any lots have been sold, the written instrument must also be
signed by all the owners of the lots in said parcel. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-13: VARIATIONS:
   A.   General: Where the city council finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with this title and/or
the purposes of the regulations in this title may be served to a greater extent
by an alternative proposal, the city council may approve variations to these
subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured provided that such variation shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided
that the city council shall not approve variations unless it shall make
findings based upon evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property located in the
vicinity of the property in question;
      2.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations in this title is carried out;
      4.   The variations will not in any manner vary from the provisions of
the code on zoning regulations and/or the official city of Chenoa comprehensive
plan adopted by the city.
The planning commission shall notify the owner or subdivider and other
interested parties as to the time and place of the meeting at which the
variation is being considered and where the owner or subdivider and other
interested parties will be afforded an opportunity of being heard. Such notice
shall be published, posted or delivered and in such form as prescribed by the
city attorney and the expense of any publication to be borne by the petitioner.
   B.   Conditions: In approving variations, the city council may require such
conditions as will in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of this title.
   C.   Procedures: A petition for any such variation shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plan is filed for
the consideration of the planning commission. Such petition shall state fully
the grounds for the application and all facts relied upon by the petitioner.
The planning commission may recommend variations from the regulations of this
title in specific cases which, in the planning commission's opinion, meet the
standards for granting variations as provided in subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-14: OBLIGATION TO COMPLY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to subdivide
any land within the corporate limits of the city of Chenoa or any
unincorporated area within one and one-half miles (11/2) of the city's
corporate limits without following the procedures, satisfying the requirements
and meeting or exceeding the standards specified in this title, provided
however, the provisions of this title shall not apply in the following
instances:
      1.   Conveyances of a lot comprising and containing all contiguous
property owned by a person, group of persons, firm or entity, as a single
parcel, to some other person, group of persons, firm or entity;
      2.   To the offer, sale or conveyance of one or more lots of record;
      3.   To the sale or exchange of parcels of land between the owner of
adjoining and contiguous property which meet or exceed the minimum requirements
of this title and the minimum bulk requirements of the city zoning ordinance.
      4.   To conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      5.   To conveyances of land relating to the dedication of land for public
use or interest relating to or arising from the vacation of land impressed with
a public use;
      6.   To conveyances of land the principal use of which is presently
agricultural and intended to be used principally for future agricultural
purposes.
The city may waive the obligation to comply with this title where units are
created pursuant to the Illinois condominium property act except where
"footprint" lots are created which are equal to or larger than the individual
units and a fee interest is conveyed in the underlying property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to develop,
build on, use or improve any lot without dedicating such street right of way as
would have been required by this title if the lot had been subdivided from a
larger parcel immediately prior to such development, construction, use or
improvement. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-15: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violation, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the investigation or
enforcement of any of the provisions of this title, upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first offense. Each day that the
violation of this title continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-1-16: LAND TRUSTS; DISCLOSURES OF BENEFICIAL INTERESTS:
Whenever any trustee of a land trust, or any beneficiary or beneficiaries of a
land trust make application to the city for approval of a subdivision under
this title relating to the land which is subject of such trust, such
application shall identify each beneficiary of such land trust by name and
address and define his interest therein as required by Illinois Compiled
Statutes. All such applications shall be verified by the applicant in his
capacity as trustee, or by the beneficiary as a beneficial owner of interest in
such land trust. If such application is filed by body politic or other
corporate entity, it shall be verified by a dually authorized officer of such
body politic or other corporate entity for whom such application is made. (Ord.
542, 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 2
SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Preapplication Conference
11-2-2: Preliminary Plan
11-2-3: Public Improvement Engineering Plans And Specifications
11-2-4: Public Improvement Installation And Inspection Procedures
11-2-5: Final Plat Submission And Review Procedure
11-2-6: Payment, Performance And Workmanship Guarantees
11-2-7: Submission Of Record Drawings
11-2-8: Acceptance For Maintenance
11-2-9: Final Security Release
11-2-10: Water And Wastewater Facilities Assessments
11-2-1: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
The owner or developer may schedule one or more preapplication conferences with
the representatives of the city council, planning commission, school district
administrative staff when determined appropriate, city staff, and city clerk
for the purpose of reviewing development proposals, concept plans and
comparable preliminary data by making a request for a preapplication conference
to the city clerk. The purpose of a preapplication conference is to review
material which is in a preliminary conceptual form and which may, after review
and comment, be then refined by the owner or developer into a preliminary
subdivision or planned unit development preliminary development plan.
Thereafter, the city, may furnish the applicant with written comments regarding
the proposed subdivision; said communication may also include the city's
recommendation with respect to whether land shall be dedicated and/or a cash
contribution shall be made by the developer to satisfy the public land
dedication requirements as contained in chapter 5 of this title. The
preapplication conference may be waived by mutual agreement between the city,
and the owner or developer. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
Before subdividing any land subject to requirements of this title, the owner or
developer shall comply with the following:
   A.   Submission: The owner or developer shall submit to the city clerk ten
(10) paper copies of a preliminary plan in the form and providing all
information required by section
11-3-2 of this title.
   B.   Filing Fee: An application for approval of a preliminary subdivision
plan shall be filed with the city clerk and be accompanied by a fee receipt
reflecting payment to the city clerk of the appropriate following fee: less
than two (2) acres one hundred dollars ($100.00); at least two (2) acres but
less than fifteen (15) acres two hundred dollars ($200.00); at least fifteen
(15) acres but less than twenty five (25) acres three hundred dollars
($300.00); twenty five (25) acres or more four hundred dollars ($400.00).
   C.   Scheduling And Notification Of Public Hearing: Upon receipt of a
preliminary plan and required filing fee, the city clerk shall refer ten (10)
copies of the preliminary plan to the planning commission, at least ten (10)
days in advance of the next meeting of the planning commission.
The planning commission shall schedule and give notice of a legislative public
hearing before the planning commission. Such notice shall be published, posted
or delivered and in such form as prescribed by the city attorney and the
expense of any publication to be borne by the subdivider. The legislative
public hearing shall be scheduled not later than at the first regularly
scheduled planning commission meeting occurring more than thirty (30) days
after the filing date of the preliminary plan.
The planning commission's notice shall contain:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision or planned unit development,
its commonly known location and legal description;
      2.   A statement of what the application is requesting the planning
commission to approve;
      3.   A statement of where copies of the application, the preliminary
subdivision or preliminary development plan and all other supporting
documentation can be inspected by the public;
      4.   A statement that all interested persons have the right to appear at
the public hearing on such preliminary subdivision or preliminary development
plan and present evidence; and
      5.   The date, time and location of the public hearing.
The planning commission shall notify the owner or developer of the proposed
subdivision or planned unit development as to the time and place of the public
hearing thereon at least seven (7) days prior to the date of the said hearing.
   D.   Distribution Of Preliminary Plan For Review And Comment: The city clerk
shall route one or more copies of the preliminary plan to city staff members
for review and comment. One copy of the plan shall be provided to each member
of the planning commission and each member of the city council prior to their
respective consideration and review of the plan.
   E.   Administrative Review And Comment: The city council may cause such
preliminary plan to be reviewed by the city attorney, city engineer, city staff
or such other agents or consultants as the city council may choose, and if such
parties prepare written recommendations, they shall submit their written
recommendations for approval, modification, or disapproval of said plan to the
planning commission for its consideration at the public hearing on such
preliminary plan application. The city staff shall also send the owner or
developer of the subdivision or planned unit development a copy of the said
written report prior to the hearing.
   F.   Legislative Public Hearing And Recommendation: The planning commission
shall conduct a legislative public hearing on the preliminary plan during which
it shall determine the extent to which the plan conforms or fails to conform
with the standards of this title and shall, not later than ninety (90) days
after the adjournment of the legislative public hearing, with mutual consent
for extensions and with approval, transmit its recommendation on the plan to
the city council. The planning commission may recommend approval of a
preliminary plan with an approval recommendation conditioned upon the making of
one or more changes in the proposal, which such changes shall be enumerated in
the planning commission's transmittal to the city council or may transmit the
plan to the city council without recommendation. Should the planning commission
fail to act within the ninety (90) days from the adjournment of the public
hearing, or fail to adjourn the public hearing within one hundred twenty (120)
days of its commencement, the plan shall be submitted to the city council
without recommendation.
   G.   City Council Approval Or Rejection Of A Proposed Preliminary Plan:
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the planning commission's
recommendation or within one hundred eighty (180) days from the filing date of
the preliminary plan with prior commission approval, whichever occurs first,
the city council shall approve or reject the proposed preliminary plan. Failure
of the city council to act within the prescribed time period shall constitute
approval of the preliminary plan.
Upon approval of the preliminary plan by the city council, the council shall
indicate approval on the plan. The city clerk shall secure from the owner or
developer a reproducible Mylar copy having a minimum size of twenty four inches
by eighteen inches (24" x 18") of the approved preliminary plan and shall cause
the signatures required on the "notice of approval" as provided by this section
to be affixed thereon. The city clerk shall then cause five (5) copies of the
approved preliminary plan with such signatures affixed thereon to be
distributed by the city clerk as follows:
      1.   One print shall be sent to the city of Chenoa planning commission;
      2.   One print shall be sent to the city engineer;
      3.   One print shall be sent to the city clerk for filing;
      4.   One print shall be returned to the subdivider; and
      5.   One print shall be sent to McLean County building and zoning.
Upon disapproval of the preliminary plan by the city council, the council shall
furnish the applicant a written statement setting forth the reason for
disapproval and specifying with particularity the aspects in which the proposed
plan fails to conform to this title.
   H.   Extension Of Time Periods By Mutual Consent: Time periods for review by
the city council may be extended by mutual consent of the owner or developer
and the city council. Any such extension shall stay the running of all
subsequent time periods.
   I.   Extension Of Preliminary Plans: Approved preliminary plans or portions
thereof on which no final plat has been submitted for review and approval shall
expire and be of no force or effect three (3) years after this approval,
except:
      1.   The filing of a final plat and necessary supporting documents
pursuant to this section and section
11-2-5 of this chapter shall extend the life of a remaining valid preliminary
plan for three (3) years; or
      2.   If the life of a preliminary plan is extended by action of the city
council. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-3: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ENGINEERING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Before subdividing any land subject to the requirements of this title, an owner
or developer shall comply with the following:
   A.   Prerequisites: Approval and continuing validity of a preliminary
subdivision plan;
   B.   Submission: The owner or developer shall submit two (2) sets of
engineering plans and specifications for all public improvements proposed in or
necessary to serve lots depicted in an approved preliminary plan or portion
thereof, which plans and specifications shall be in the form and include the
content required by section
11-3-3 of this title. Such plans shall be in compliance with the preliminary
plan.
   C.   Review And Approval:
      1.   The public improvement plans and specifications shall be reviewed
and approved or disapproved by the city engineer.
      2.   The city engineer will require the owner or developer to submit all
data, plans, specifications and additional materials as may be necessary to
completely and accurately determine the extent of compliance or noncompliance
with the city's public improvement design standards outlined in chapter 6 of
this title and accepted engineering practice and to demonstrate that the
proposed manner of construction and installation will meet or exceed all the
city's public improvement construction standards as outlined in chapter 6 of
this title.
      3.   The public improvement plans and specifications, whether they meet
or exceed the city subdivision, public improvement design standards and
otherwise demonstrate good and acceptable engineering design and practice,
shall be approved by the city engineer.
      4.   Approval or disapproval by the city engineer shall be in writing and
shall make reference to the public improvement plans and specifications. (Ord.
542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-4: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION PROCEDURES:
The owner or developer of property desiring to install public improvements in
an area depicted on a proposed or approved preliminary plan or approved or
proposed final subdivision plat shall perform such installation in accordance
with the following (procedure):
   A.   Prerequisites To Installation:
      1.   For Installations Before Final Plat Approval:
         a.   Approval and continuing validity of an approved preliminary plan;
         b.   Approval of public improvement engineering plans and
specifications for any and all public improvements which are to be installed or
the installation of which is to be commenced prior to the approval of a final
plat;
      2.   For Installation After Final Plat Approval:
         a.   Approval of a final plat;
         b.   Posting of a final plat, public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond and security therefore, in the amount and form specified
in section
11-3-5 of this title for all public improvements depicted in, adjacent to or
necessary to serve lots or outlots depicted in an area for which final plat
approval has been obtained.
   B.   Inspection: During installation of public improvements, either before
or after final plat approval, the owner or developer shall comply with the
requirements of the city's public improvement construction standards as
outlined in chapter 6 of this title by which the city engineer or his designee
shall make periodic inspections. Failure to comply and install or maintain such
installations in a manner that permits inspection shall constitute grounds for
rejecting or revoking preliminary plan or final plat approval, forfeiting
pledged security and, in addition, shall constitute a violation of this title.
   C.   Plan Review, Inspection, And Testing Fee: The cost incurred by the city
for review of public improvement plan and specifications as required by section
11-2-3 of this chapter and the inspection and testing of public improvements as
required by this section, shall be paid by the owner or developer. Such cost
shall be equal to the actual cost incurred by the city in labor, materials,
transportation and overhead for such review, inspection and testing as
calculated by the city engineer. At the time such plans and specifications are
filed with the city engineer, the owner or developer shall pay to the city a
fee of two percent (2%) of the costs as estimated by the city engineer of such
required land improvements. Said fee shall be applied as credit against the
actual costs incurred by the city or city engineer for review of such plans and
the inspection and testing of such improvements. The balance of the actual
costs shall be paid to the city by the owner or developer at the time such
review and inspection has been completed by the city or city engineer. All land
improvements to be installed under the provisions of this title shall be
inspected by the city or city engineer during the course of construction.
   D.   Grading Plan Record Drawings: The owner or developer shall submit to
the city engineer for approval, prior to issuance of a building permit or prior
to the installation of any utilities serving a proposed lot of record,
whichever is earlier, a record drawing of the grading plan which is required by
the city's public improvement construction standards located in chapter 6 of
this title. The record drawings submitted shall be one clear and legible
transparent Mylar and one Photostat print of the approved grading plan and
shall also depict the actual ground surface elevations on all lot corners and
building pads in addition to the proposed elevations on the approved grading
plan. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-5: FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE:
Before subdividing any land, subject to requirements of this title, an owner or
developer shall comply with the following final plat submission, review and
approval procedure:
   A.   Prerequisites:
      1.   Approval and continuing validity of a preliminary subdivision plan;
      2.   Approval of the public improvement plans and specifications proposed
in, adjacent to or necessary to serve lots or outlots depicted in the area for
which final plat approval is sought;
      3.   Payment of any and all applicable tap-on and streetlight fees prior
to recording the final plat; and
      4.   Prior to recording the final plat, the posting of any required final
plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond; filing and
establishment of any required adjacent street substandard roadway improvement
guarantees and security; making of any required public land dedications or cash
contribution in lieu thereof and obtaining and filing with the city of any off
site easements or right of way for public improvements serving the site.
      5.   Submission of a fee receipt reflecting payment to the city clerk of
the appropriate following fee: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   B.   Submission: The owner or developer shall submit to the city clerk two
(2) transparent Mylars, one digital computer aided drafting file on disk, and
fifteen (15) copies of a final plat, in a form and providing all the
information, data and supporting material required by section
11-3-4 of this title and retaining the design characteristics of the approved
preliminary plan and public improvement engineering plans and specifications.
   C.   Distribution Of Final Plat For Review And Comment: The city clerk shall
route one or more copies of the final plat to city staff members for review and
comment. One copy of the final plat shall be provided to each member of the
city council prior to the consideration of the plan.
   D.   City Council Review, Referral And Approval Or Disapproval: Within sixty
(60) days from the submission of a final plat and supporting material, the city
council shall review the final plat to determine the extent to which it
conforms with the approved preliminary plan and approved public improvement
plans and specifications and shall further review the supporting material to
determine its conformance with the requirements of this title. If the final
plat substantially conforms with the approved preliminary plan and public
improvement plans and specifications and if the supporting material meets all
code requirements, then the city council shall approve the final plat by
resolution within sixty (60) days from the date of its review. The city council
may approve such plats subject to the subsequent posting of final plat payment,
performance and workmanship bond; adjacent substandard roadway improvement
guarantee, and related security documents and reserves. If the final plat does
not in some way substantially conform with the approved preliminary plan or if
the supporting material does not conform with all code requirements, then the
city council, within sixty (60) days from the date of its review, shall take
one of the following actions:
      1.   By resolution, approve the final plat;
      2.   By resolution, approve the final plat with conditions;
      3.   By resolution, disapprove the final plat;
      4.   Refer the final plat to the planning commission for legislative
public hearing, at which time and place the planning commission shall determine
the extent to which the (revised) final plat conforms or fails to conform with
the standards of this title. The planning commission shall, not later than
ninety (90) days after the adjournment of the legislative public hearing,
transmit its recommendation on the (revised) final plat to the city council.
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the planning commission's
recommendation with respect to the (revised) final plat, the city council
shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the plat.
   E.   Recording: Within fourteen (14) days from the date of adoption of a
resolution approving the final plat, or within fourteen (14) days from the date
on which the last event referred to this title or characterized in the
resolution as a prerequisite to recording of the final plat occurs, whichever
is later, the city clerk shall record a copy of the final plat, a certified
copy of the resolution approving the final plat, and any supporting
certificates necessary to accomplish the recording in the office of the
recorder of deeds of McLean County. If such final plat is not recorded within
ninety (90) days of city council approval, such plat shall become null and
void.
   F.   Expedited Final Plat Submission, Review And Approval Procedure,
Subdivision With Three Lots Or Less: Notwithstanding the sequential procedure
for subdivision plan submission, review and approval specified elsewhere in
this chapter, an owner or developer meeting the prerequisites specified in this
subsection may utilize the expedited final plat process described herein:
      1.   Prerequisites:
         a.   The plat depicts a total of not more than three (3) lots and
outlots;
         b.   The plat includes all contiguous property in common ownership or
unified control.
         c.   The proposed subdivision shall not necessitate the construction
or installation of public improvements.
         d.   That no waivers of this title be requested.
      2.   Submission: Any person desiring to utilize the expedited final plat
procedure shall submit the following to the city clerk:
         a.   A written request to waive the preliminary plan, submission,
review, and approval procedure.
         b.   Three (3) copies of a utility plan and floodplain map. The
utility plan shall show all information of existing and proposed utilities as
required for a preliminary plan. The floodplain map will outline the area in
the flood hazard area.
         c.   Two (2) transparent Mylars, one digital computer aided drafting
file on disk, and fifteen (15) Photostat copies of the final plat in a form
providing all information, data and supporting material required by section
11-3-4 of this title.
         d.   A fee receipt reflecting payment to the city clerk of the
appropriate following fee: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      3.   Distribution Of Final Plat For Review And Comment: The city clerk
shall route one or more copies of the final plat to the city staff members for
review and comment. One copy of the final plat shall be provided to each member
of the city council prior to their consideration of the plan.
      4.   City Council Review, Referral And Approval Or Disapproval: Within
thirty (30) days from the submission of a final plat under this expedited
review and procedure, the city council shall review the submission to determine
the extent to which it conforms with the requirements of this title. If the
material meets all title requirements, then the city council shall approve the
final plat by resolution within sixty (60) days from the date of its review.
The city council may approve such plats subject to the subsequent payment of
any and all applicable fees and posting of a final plat payment, performance
and workmanship bond; adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee,
public improvement engineering plans and specifications and related materials,
security documents and reserves. If the final plat in some way does not conform
with all title requirements, then within sixty (60) days from the date of its
review, the city council shall take one or more of the following actions:
         a.   By resolution, approve the final plat;
         b.   By resolution, approve the final plat with conditions;
         c.   By resolution, disapprove the final plat;
         d.   Require the submission of a preliminary plan;
         e.   Refer the final plat to the planning commission for legislative
public hearing, at which time and place the planning commission shall determine
the extent to which the final plat conforms with the standards of this title.
The planning commission shall, not later than ninety (90) days after the
adjournment of the legislative public hearing, transmit its recommendation on
the final plat to the city council. Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of
the planning commission recommendation with respect to such final plat, the
city council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove same.
      5.   Conformance With Other Requirements: Except as provided in this
section, the recording of final plats, the posting of bonds, the submission of
as built plans and the release of bonds shall be as provided in this title.
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-6: PAYMENT, PERFORMANCE AND WORKMANSHIP GUARANTEES:
Either prior to the approval of a final subdivision plat or prior to its
recording and within the time framework, if any, specified in the resolution of
approval, the owner or developer shall post, secure and file with the city
clerk a final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond
with appropriate evidence of security and file and establish an adjacent
substandard roadway improvement guarantee and security in the manner, amount
and form described respectively in section
11-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-7: SUBMISSION OF RECORD DRAWINGS:
After installation, completion, inspection, testing and receipt of engineering
approval, but before city acceptance for maintenance of any public improvements
within a subdivision, the owner or developer shall submit record drawings of
the public improvement plans in the form and with the content required by the
city's public improvement construction standards outlined in chapter 6 of this
title. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-8: ACCEPTANCE FOR MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Completion Of All Public Improvements: After the developer has complied
with the requirements of the city's public improvement construction standards
outlined in chapter 6 of this title and within thirty (30) days after the city
engineer's written recommendation for acceptance, the city council shall by
resolution, accept for maintenance all public improvements within, adjacent to
or serving lots or outlots depicted on a final plat.
   B.   Completion Of All Public Improvements Except Sidewalks: If the
developer has complied with all of the requirements of the city's public
improvement construction standards outlined in chapter 6 of this title except
the completion and inspection of an approved sidewalk, then the developer may
post a payment, performance, and workmanship guarantee in the manner and form
described in subsection
11-3-5A of this title guaranteeing the construction of the proposed sidewalk
which guarantee shall be secured by posting a cash escrow with the city of
Chenoa in the amount determined by the city engineer. If the guarantee and
security are posted for the approved sidewalk, then within sixty (60) days
after the city engineer's written recommendation for acceptance of all public
improvements except sidewalk, the city council shall by resolution accept for
maintenance all public improvements except sidewalk within, adjacent to, or
serving lots or outlots depicted on a final plat.
If the developer constructs the approved proposed sidewalk as guaranteed, then
the city shall, upon approval by the city engineer, release to the developer
the posted cash escrow securing such sidewalk construction. If the approved
proposed sidewalk for which guarantee and cash escrow has been posted is not
constructed within two (2) years of posting such guarantee and cash escrow, the
city may use the funds in the cash escrow to construct the approved proposed
sidewalk billing the developer for any deficiency and refunding to the
developer any surplus from the cash escrow account. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-9: FINAL SECURITY RELEASE:
   A.   Final Plat Public Improvement Payment, Performance And Workmanship
Bonds: One year after the date on which a resolution accepting a final plat for
maintenance is adopted, unless a material or workmanship claim is submitted to
the surety company or escrow agent, the security for final plat public
improvement, payment, performance and workmanship bonds shall expire and may be
released upon certification of satisfactory condition by the city engineer.
   B.   Adjacent Substandard Roadway Improvement Guarantees And Security: The
adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee and security shall expire
pursuant to subsection
11-3-5B of this title unless the city engineer has earlier certified completion
of improvements to adjacent substandard roadways, and the security, plus
interest at seven percent (7%) per annum may be released without further action
by the city council. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-2-10: WATER AND WASTEWATER FACILITIES ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Water And Wastewater Facilities Assessments:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this title, with respect to any
property which:
         a.   Is subdivided after January 1, 2008, in accordance with the
provisions of this title; and
         b.   Is to be served by wastewater and/or water main extensions
constructed at the expense of the owner, shall in the case of a connection to
the wastewater system be subject to a wastewater facilities assessment in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each acre of land contained in the
subdivision and shall in the case of a connection to the water system be
subject to a water facilities assessment in the amount of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for each acre of land contained in the subdivision. Unless
paid in installments as authorized by subsection B of this section, any such
assessment shall be paid prior to the approval of final plans or the execution
and delivery of the executed final plat of the subdivision to the owner or
subdivider.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in this title, any lot which:
         a.   Is annexed to the city after January 1, 2008, or created by
subdivision after January 1, 2008, which annexed or subdivided lot will be
served by individual service connection to a water main in the case of the
water system or a wastewater main in the case of the wastewater system which
has already been installed at the expense of:
            (1)   Any private person other than the owner of the lot or a
predecessor in interest to the owner of the lot; or
            (2)   The city; or
         b.   Has not enough special assessment as authorized under article 9
of the Illinois municipal code or through prior payment of consideration to the
city or through installation of wastewater mains, water mains or other
appurtenances directly contributed to the provision of the facilities to which
improvements on that lot will be connected, shall in the case of a connection
to the water system be subject to a water facilities assessment in the amount
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each connection and shall in the case of
a connection to the wastewater system be subject to a wastewater facilities
assessment in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
connection. Unless paid in installments as authorized by subsection B of this
section, any such assessment shall be paid by the applicant and/or owner upon
application for the service connection.
      3.   Any person asserting exemption from facilities assessments because
of prior payments or because of installation of water or wastewater mains at
the expense of the owner or a predecessor in interest or for any other reason
shall have the burden of producing written receipts or other documentary
evidence demonstrating to the sole satisfaction of the city that such exemption
is justified.
   B.   Installment Payment Of Assessments: Provided that the city in its sole
discretion determines that the security is adequate, facilities assessments due
under the terms of this chapter may be paid in not more than five (5) equal
annual installments of principal and interest, the first of which shall be due
no later than six (6) months following the date of application for service
together with interest on the principal balance remaining unpaid from time to
time at a rate of not less than six percent (6%) per annum. Payments shall be
first applied to unpaid interest and the balance, if any, to unpaid principal.
Installment obligations shall be evidenced by a promissory note secured by a
mortgage on the premises served by the water or wastewater systems as the case
may be. The city may, in its discretion, permit the subordination of any such
mortgage to one or more other mortgages on the premises served by the water or
wastewater systems.
   C.   Discretionary Waiver Of Assessments: The city may, in its sole
discretion, reduce or waive facilities assessments under the following
circumstances:
      1.   As an inducement to business enterprises considering a location in
the city; or
      2.   Under circumstances where the property or portion thereof otherwise
subject to a facilities assessment is unbuildable or is wasteland; or
      3.   Under circumstances where the imposition of a mandated facilities
assessment would be manifestly unjust.
   D.   Recovery Of Costs Of Extension And Other Charges: The fees established
in the preceding subsections contemplate a tap-in to or extension of existing
mains without the necessity of any improvements by the city. In the event that
the city is required to extend or upsize mains or make other improvements or
has previously extended or upsized mains or made other improvements in order to
accommodate a tap-in or extension, the foregoing provisions of this section
shall not preclude the assessment of additional charges representing a share of
the cost of such improvements which benefit such parcel or parcels as such cost
and share are determined by the city council. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 3
FORM AND CONTENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Concept Plan
11-3-2: Preliminary Plans And Supporting Material
11-3-3: Public Improvement Engineering Plans And Specifications
11-3-4: Final Plat
11-3-5: Payment, Performance And Workmanship Guarantees
11-3-6: Record Drawings
11-3-1: CONCEPT PLAN:
Concept plans shall be drawn to engineering scale and shall show the conceptual
layout of the proposed subdivision or planned unit development including the
general layout of streets, drainage, sewerage, and land uses and the present
location of major natural features such as streams and lakes. (Ord. 542, 11-26-
2007)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLANS AND SUPPORTING MATERIAL:
   A.   General: The owner or developer submitting a preliminary plan shall
submit all information required by this section in the form specified. Failure
of an owner or developer to provide this information in the form required shall
be sufficient grounds for the city to refuse to accept the filing of a
preliminary plan or to reject the preliminary plan at any stage in the review
and approval process and, in addition, shall constitute a violation of this
title.
   B.   Minimum Area Included In A Preliminary Plan: A preliminary plan shall
include not less than all contiguous property in common ownership or unified
control.
   C.   Required Form And Content Of A Preliminary Plan And Supporting
Documents: Plans, drawings, surveys, maps, schematics, and comparable material
shall be submitted in the form and content as specified in chapter 6 of this
title. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-3-3: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ENGINEERING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   General: The owner or developer submitting public improvement
engineering plans and specifications shall submit all the information required
by this section. Failure of an owner or developer to provide this information
shall be sufficient grounds for the city to refuse to accept the filing of
public improvement engineering plans and specifications, to reject the plans
and specifications at any stage in the review and approval process, to reject a
final plat depicting lots or outlots served by such public improvements.
   B.   Minimum Material Submitted: Engineering plans and specifications shall
be submitted for all public improvements proposed in or necessary to serve lots
depicted in an approved preliminary plan or portion thereof. Such materials
shall include, without limitation, plans, profiles, standard details, and
special details drawn in sufficient detail and supported with sufficient data
to make possible a complete and accurate determination of the extent of
compliance or noncompliance with the city's subdivision design standards. (Ord.
542, 11-26-2007)
11-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   General: The owner or developer submitting a final plat shall submit
all information required by this section in the form specified. Failure of an
owner or developer to provide this information in the form required shall be
sufficient grounds for the city to refuse to accept the filing of a final plat
or to reject the final plat in any stage of the review and approval process.
   B.   Area Included In A Final Plat:
      1.   A final plat shall not include any area not included in an approved
and then valid preliminary plan unless an exemption of the preliminary plan
requirements of section
11-2-2 of this title has been approved by the city council in accordance with
subsection
11-2-5F of this title.
      2.   A final plat shall not depict any public improvements or lots served
by, which are to be served by, or which under this title require service by
public improvements unless the public improvement engineering plans and
specifications for such public improvements have been submitted, reviewed and
approved.
   C.   Required Form And Content (Of Final Subdivision Plats And Supporting
Documents): Final plats, certificates, and comparable material shall be
submitted in the form and content as specified in chapter 6 of this title.
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-3-5: PAYMENT, PERFORMANCE AND WORKMANSHIP GUARANTEES:
   A.   Final Plat Public Improvement Payment, Performance And Workmanship
Bond:
      1.   Nature Of The Obligation: Any owner, developer or subdivider shall
submit a final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship
bond obligating the signer(s) to do each of the following:
         a.   Install all public improvements depicted on an approved
preliminary plan, engineering plans and specifications or final plat.
         b.   Pay all plan review, coordination meeting, and inspection fees.
         c.   Prepare and submit to the city one complete set of plans showing
such required land improvements as actually installed in the manner described
in section
 11-3-6 of this chapter.
All public improvements shall be completed within two (2) years following the
approval of the final plat by the mayor and city council and prior to
acceptance of the improvements for maintenance. In addition, the execution of
the subdivider's final plat public improvement payment, performance and
workmanship bond shall obligate the signer(s) to guarantee the improvements
against faulty materials and workmanship for a period of one year following
acceptance of the improvements for maintenance by the mayor and city council.
      2.   Penal Amount Of Bond And Security:
         a.   Penal Amount: The penal amount of the final plat public
improvement payment and performance and workmanship bond shall be the higher of
the following:
            (1)   If some or all of the improvements have been installed,
inspected, and approved, then one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost
of those improvements not installed and inspected, plus ten percent (10%) of
the city engineer's estimate for all improvements shall be held as security
until all improvements have been accepted for maintenance by the city council.
At this time the security shall be reduced to ten percent (10%) of the city
engineer's estimate and held for the one year guarantee period for materials
and workmanship. Also the owner or developer must pay all plan review,
coordination meeting, and inspection fees not paid and prepare all record
drawings not then submitted.
            (2)   If none of the improvements have been installed, then one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the city engineer's estimate of the cost of
installing all public improvements shall be required to guarantee the materials
and workmanship. This amount may be reduced to ten percent (10%) of the city
engineer's estimate upon acceptance of the improvements for maintenance.
         b.   Security: The final plat public improvement payment, performance,
and workmanship bond shall be secured in one of the following ways:
            (1)   By posting a cash escrow amount in a local bank or savings
and loan association in the amount specified in this subsection A as adjusted
by any releases authorized pursuant to this subsection A.
            (2)   By posting a renewable irrevocable letter of credit in the
amount specified for a minimum of two (2) years in this subsection A from a
local bank or savings and loan association naming the city as a beneficiary
thereof. The minimum of two (2) year term renewal with two (2) months notice to
city prior to expiration.
      3.   Form Of Bond And Security Documents:
         a.   The form of the final plat public improvement payment,
performance and workmanship bond secured by cash escrow is provided in exhibit
G on file with the city clerk.
         b.   The form of the final plat public improvement payment,
performance and workmanship bond secured by an irrevocable letter of credit is
as provided in exhibit H on file with the city clerk.
      4.   Releases From Escrow Accounts Posted As Security: As installation of
public improvements progresses, and is inspected and approved by the city
engineer, releases from such escrow accounts, including interest accumulated
thereon, may be authorized by the city engineer in writing, based upon his
estimate of the cost for work completed, inspected and approved, provided
however, no release shall be made which would reduce the escrow account to an
amount less than ten percent (10%) of the city engineer's original estimate of
the cost of installing all public improvements, paying all plan review,
coordination meeting, and inspection fees and preparing as built plans until
all public improvements in the subdivision have been accepted for maintenance
by the mayor and city council of the city, at which time the escrow account
shall be released to an amount of not less than five percent (5%) of the city
engineer's original estimate of cost. Funds then remaining in the escrow
account may be released one year after official action by the mayor and city
council of the city of Chenoa accepted the subdivision for maintenance or on
such later date as any written claim against the escrow account by the city is
finally resolved.
   B.   Adjacent Substandard Roadway Improvement Guarantee And Security:
      1.   Nature Of The Obligation: Any owner, developer, or subdivider
developing a subdivision bordering on one or more roadways is obligated to
contribute one-half (1/2) the cost of improving such roadway or roadways on all
streets, the obligation shall endure for ten (10) years from the date of the
final plat is recorded unless:
         a.   The developer or subdivider builds the half of the street
adjacent to his development in which case the developer shall have no
obligation, or
         b.   The city obtains the right of way and adjacent substandard
roadway improvement guarantee and security for the roadway opposite the
development in which case the developer's or subdivider's obligation shall be
limited to ten (10) years from the date the final plat is recorded.
      2.   Guarantee And Security:
         a.   Security: The adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee
shall be secured in one of the following ways:
            (1)   By posting a cash reserve account with the city of Chenoa in
the amount determined by subsection A of this section as adjusted by releases
authorized pursuant to subsection A of this section.
            (2)   By posting an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount
determined by subsection A of this section from a local bank or savings and
loan association naming the city as beneficiary thereof.
         b.   Form Of Guarantee:
            (1)   The form of the adjacent substandard roadway improvement
guarantee secured by cash escrow is as provided in exhibit I on file with the
city clerk.
            (2)   The form of the adjacent substandard roadway improvement
guarantee and security secured by an irrevocable letter of credit is as
provided in exhibit J on file with the city clerk. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-3-6: RECORD DRAWINGS:
   A.   General: After completion, inspection and approval of all public
improvements but prior to acceptance of the public improvements for
maintenance, the owner or developer shall submit all information required by
this section in the form specified in chapter 6 of this title. Failure of an
owner or developer to provide this information in the form required shall be
sufficient grounds for the city to refuse to release the subdivider from his or
its final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond,
adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee or to release the security
or reserve for such bond, bonds or guarantee, and shall constitute a violation
of this title.
   B.   Required Form: As built plans shall consist of photographic
reproduction Mylar with a maximum size of twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36") and the corresponding digital computer aided drafting files
in the specified version and format of AutoCAD on a CD or DVD.
   C.   Required Content: As built plans shall provide the content required for
public improvement engineering plans and specifications (specified in section
11-3-3 of this chapter) but shall accurately depict the plans, profiles,
standard details and special details as actually installed, inspected and
approved, rather than as proposed. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 4
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
(Reserved)
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION AND RESERVATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Applicability
11-5-2: Amount And Location Of Land Dedication Requirements
11-5-3: Criteria For Requiring A Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Land Dedication
11-5-4: Reservation Of Additional Land
11-5-5: Combining With Adjoining Developments
11-5-6: Topography And Grading
11-5-7: Improved Sites
11-5-8: School Land Dedication
11-5-1: GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
All subdivisions of property with a residential use shall be designed so that
park and recreational areas are provided in the manner and to the extent
prescribed by this chapter, so as to accommodate the open space and
recreational needs of those persons living within the confines of the
subdivision. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-5-2: AMOUNT AND LOCATION OF LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   As a condition of approval of a final plat of a subdivision, each
owner, subdivider or developer of property with a residential use, shall be
required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes, to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development or to contribute
cash in lieu of said actual land dedication, or to make a combination of cash
contribution and land dedication at the election of the city in accordance with
the following criteria and formula:
      1.   Requirement And Population Table: The ultimate density of a proposed
development bears directly on the amount of land required for park purposes.
The total requirement shall be five (5) acres of land per one thousand (1,000)
of ultimate population. Projected population is based upon the maximum number
of dwelling units per acre permitted in the respective zoning district and the
projected number of occupants per unit, see subsections
11-5-3C and D of this chapter.
      2.   Location: The city of Chenoa comprehensive plan and official map as
adopted by the city council, shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A
central location which will serve equally the entire development is most
desirable. In large developments, these sites can be located throughout the
development according to accepted standards for park area distances. A portion
of retention and detention facilities included within a proposed preliminary
subdivision plan may be considered by the city to satisfy some, but not more
than fifty percent (50%) of the land dedication requirements contained herein
at the recommendation of city staff.
      3.   Cash Contribution Alternatives: In the event the city should
determine that a cash contribution shall be made by the owner, subdivider or
developer in lieu of land dedication, the city shall apply the population ratio
of 0.5 acre of land for one hundred (100) ultimate population within the
development or area to be subdivided times the fair market value as established
in subsection
 11-5-3A of this chapter. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-5-3: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING A CASH CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF LAND DEDICATION:
When the amount of land the owner, subdivider or developer would otherwise be
required to dedicate for park purposes is calculated to be less than five (5)
acres in size with a minimum three hundred foot (300') frontage on a public
street, the city may determine that the available land is inappropriate for
park and recreational purposes, and the owner, subdivider or developer may be
required to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication or a
combination of land and cash in lieu of land, at the election of the city. The
cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land dedication shall be held
in trust by the city or other public body designated by the city, solely for
the acquisition and development of park and recreation land as herein before
classified, which may be available to serve the immediate or future needs of
the residents of that subdivision or development or for the improvement of
other existing local park and recreational land which already serves such
areas.
   A.   Fair Market Value: The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be based
on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreational sites. It has been determined that the present "fair market value"
as of the adoption date of the revised code of such improved land in the
planning jurisdiction of the city is thirty five thousand dollars ($35,000.00)
per acre and such figure shall be used in making any calculation herein unless
the subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In the event of
such objection, the developer shall submit an appraisal showing the "fair
market value" of such improved land in the area of his development or other
evidence thereof and final determination of said "fair market value" per acre
of such improved land shall be made by the city council based upon such
information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources
which may be submitted to the city council.
   B.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Fee: There will be situations
in subdivisions when a combination of land dedication and a contribution in
lieu of land are both necessary. These occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site. That portion of the land within the
subdivision falling within the park location shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated.
      2.   A major part of the local park or recreation site has already been
acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the development to
complete the site. The remaining portion shall be required by dedication, and a
cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
   C.   Density Formula: The estimated population per dwelling unit based on
current and short range projected trends in family size of new construction is
indicated in this section and shall be used in calculating the amount of
required dedication for acres of land and any combination of land dedication
and cash contribution unless a written objection is filed thereto by an owner,
subdivider or developer. The estimate is as follows:
 
Zoning District         Population
                        (People Per Dwelling Unit)
R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, MH 2.7
 
This figure can be reviewed on an annual basis and may be adjusted annually to
reflect changes in land costs and the costs of improvements based upon the
maximum allowable number of dwelling units per lot.
In the event an owner, subdivider or developer files a written objection to the
population estimates listed herein, he shall submit his own demographic study
showing the estimated additional population to be generated from the
subdivision, and in that event, final determination of the density formula to
be used in such calculations shall be made by the city council based upon such
demographic information submitted by the owner, subdivider or developer and
from other sources which may be submitted to the city council. It is recognized
that population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and
amendment, if necessary.
   D.   Land And Cash Contribution Formula:
      1.   Land Dedication: In the event the city shall require land dedication
pursuant to this title it shall be in an amount not less than the following:
 
Zoning District         Land Dedication
                        (Square Feet Per Dwelling Unit)
R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, MH $588.06
 
It is recognized that local conditions change over the years and the land
dedication requirements of this section are subject to periodic review and
amendment, if necessary.
      2.   Cash Contribution: In the event the city shall require solely cash
in lieu of park and recreation land dedication, pursuant to this title, the
cash contribution shall not be less than the amount in the following table:
 
Zoning District         Cash Contribution
                        (Per Dwelling Unit)
R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, MH $472.50
 
It is recognized that local conditions change over the years and the cash
contribution provided in the foregoing is to be subject to periodic review and
amendment, if necessary. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-5-4: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the city of Chenoa comprehensive plan or the standards of the city call
for a larger amount of park and recreational land in a particular subdivision
than the developer is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the
developer's contribution shall be reserved for subsequent purchase by the city,
provided that such acquisition is made within one year from the date of the
final plat which includes the area of the park to be dedicated. (Ord. 542, 11-
26-2007)
11-5-5: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision is less than forty (40) acres, public open space which is
to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with dedications from
adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreation areas without
hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-5-6: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites
dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not differ greatly from
surrounding land. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-5-7: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer and streets as applicable to the
location of the site, or acceptable provisions made therefor. All sites shall
be graded and seeded. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-5-8: SCHOOL LAND DEDICATION:
   A.   General:
      1.   Where it is the policy of the impacted school district to request
developers of new residential developments to dedicate land or make cash
contributions to the district in lieu of dedicating land for new schools, the
following provisions shall apply.
      2.   Fees and/or land dedications from developers of residential
developments under the jurisdiction of the city shall be in accordance with
this section.
   B.   Provisions:
      1.   Dedication Of School Sites Or Payment Of Fees In Lieu Of: As a
condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or final development plan
of a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer shall be required
to dedicate land for school sites, to serve the immediate and future needs of
the residents of the development, or cash contribution in lieu of actual land
dedication, or a combination of both, as determined by the city of Chenoa and
the impacted school district, in accordance with the following criteria and
formula.
      2.   Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedication:
         a.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students
to be generated by a subdivision or planned unit development shall bear
directly upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The
land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of: 1)
estimated children to be served in each such school classification over the 2)
maximum recommended number of students to be served in each school
classification as stated herein, and then applying such ratio to the 3) said
minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of each such school
classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall be the area of land
deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated
increased children in each such school classification.
         b.   School Classifications And Size Of School Site: School
classifications and size of school sites within the city shall be determined in
accordance with the following criteria:
 
School         Maximum Number Minimum Site Size
Classification Of Students    (Acres)
Elementary     600            11
Junior high    900            29
Senior high    1,200          50
 
         c.   Location: The city of Chenoa comprehensive plan and/or the
standards adopted by the impacted school district shall be used as a guideline
in locating sites.
   C.   Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of School Sites: Where
the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be practical or
when the available land is inappropriate for a school site, the city shall
require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the
land dedication required. The cash contribution in lieu of school sites shall
be held by the city, solely for the use in the acquisition of land for a school
site to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that subdivision
or development or for the improvement to any existing school site which already
serves the needs of that development. Said cash contribution in lieu of school
site dedication shall be deposited with the city prior to recording of the
final plat or approval of the final development plan for a planned unit
development.
      1.   Fair Market Value: The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as a school site. It
has been determined that the present "fair market value" of such improved land
in and surrounding the city is thirty five thousand dollars ($35,000.00) per
acre and such figure shall be used in making any calculation herein unless the
subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In the event of any
such objection the developer shall submit an appraisal showing the "fair market
value" of such improved land in the area of his/her development or other
evidence thereof and final determination of said "fair market value" per acre
of such improved land shall be made by the city council based upon such
information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from any other sources
which may be submitted to the city council, school district and others.
      2.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Fee: There will be
situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination of
land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
         a.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
school site. That portion of the land within the subdivision falling within the
school location shall be dedicated as a site as aforesaid, and a cash
contribution shall be required for any additional land that would have been
required to be dedicated.
         b.   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and
only a small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the
site. The remaining portions shall be required by dedication and a cash
contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
   D.   Density Formula: The following table of population density is generally
indicative of current and short range projected trends in family size for new
construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication
of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written
objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer.
 
                      Elementary     Junior High    Senior High
   Housing Type    (Children Per  (Children Per  (Children Per Dwelling
                      Dwelling Unit) Dwelling Unit) Unit)
Single and two-family 0.385          0.117          0.187
Multi-family          0.094          0.036          0.06
 
In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the table
of estimated ultimate population listed herein, he/she shall submit his/her own
demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be generated
from the subdivision or planned unit development and in that event final
determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be
made by the city council based upon such demographic information submitted by
the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted to
the city council, school district or others. It is recognized that population
density, age distribution and local conditions change over the years, and the
specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu
thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and amendment if
necessary.
   E.   Annexation: The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu
thereof required by this section shall also be required as a condition to the
annexation of any land to the city and provisions thereof shall be incorporated
in any preannexation agreement governing such land.
   F.   Exemptions: The dedication of land or cash contributions in lieu
thereof as required by this section shall be applicable unless the city council
determines either that such new subdivision will not in itself have an impact
upon or create a need for new school facilities and that any such need is not
uniquely attributable to such new subdivision. The determination by the city
council shall be binding upon all the parties involved.
   G.   Formula For Cash Contributions:
Children/Dwelling Unit/School Classification/Zoning R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, MH
District
Children/Dwelling Unit/School Classification/Zoning  R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, MH
District
Elementary                                                 0.385
Junior high                                                0.117
Senior high                                                0.187
Dwelling units/acre/zoning district (maximum)              6
Children/acre/school classification/zoning district:  
   Elementary                                           2.31
   Junior high                                          0.702
   Senior high                                          1.122
 
Maximum School Population
And Minimum Site Size     Maximum School Population Minimum Site Size (Acres)
(Acre)/School
Classification
Elementary                   600                    11
Junior high                  900                    29
Senior high                  1,200                  50
 
Required Land Dedication By School Classification And R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, MH
Zoning District (Acres)
Elementary                                               0.0282
Junior high                                              0.0151
Senior high                                              0.0312
Total land dedication (acres) per acre                   0.0745
Total land dedication (acres) per dwelling unit          0.0186
 
Required Fee In Lieu Of Land Dedication By School R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, MH
Classification And Zoning District
Elementary                                           $ 988.17
Junior high                                          527.80
Senior high                                          1,090.83
Total fee per acre                                   2,606.80
Total fee per dwelling unit                          651.70
 
   H.   Procedures For Managing Cash Contributions:
      1.   The school district's business agent shall provide a copy of the
school district's policy and procedures to any developer seeking approval of a
new residential development under the jurisdiction of the city.
      2.   The required cash contributions shall be deposited with the city
treasurer before the city shall record the final plat or approve the final
development plan of a planned unit development.
      3.   The city treasurer shall deposit the cash contribution in an escrow
account and shall issue periodic reports to the business agent for the school
district.
      4.   The business agent shall file a capital improvement plan with the
city clerk which shall indicate the proposed use of funds by the school
district.
      5.   The business agent shall file a request for transfer of funds with
the city clerk, certifying that the funds so paid, shall be used for the
capital improvements in accordance with the plan referenced in subsection H4 of
this section.
      6.   The school district's business agent shall maintain records
indicating the use of the funds. In the event the funds are not used by the
school district within one year of receipt, said funds with any earned interest
will be returned to the city. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Introduction
11-6-2: Scope
11-6-3: Predesign Conference
11-6-4: Preliminary Plan Preparation Requirements
11-6-5: Specification Requirements
11-6-6: Design Computation Requirements
11-6-7: Estimate Requirements
11-6-8: Other Permit Applications And Approvals
11-6-9: Public Improvement Engineering Plans And Specifications, Submission And
Review Procedure
11-6-10: Approval Period
11-6-11: Guarantees By Developer
11-6-12: Plan Review, Inspection, And Testing Fees
11-6-13: Revisions To Approved Public Improvement Engineering Plans And
Specifications
11-6-14: Installation And Inspection Procedures
11-6-15: Record Drawings
11-6-16: Project Completion And Final Acceptance
11-6-17: Waiver For Requirements
11-6-18: Electronic Drafting File Standards
11-6-19: Protection And Restoration
11-6-20: General Subdivision Design Standards
11-6-21: Streets
11-6-22: Sidewalks And Pedestrianways And Trails
11-6-23: Storm Sewers, Drainageways, Sump Pump Discharge Lines And Storm Water
Detention Facilities
11-6-24: Sanitary Sewers
11-6-25: Water Distribution And Supply System
11-6-26: Streetlights
11-6-27: Bridges And Culverts
11-6-28: Railroad Crossings
11-6-29: Other Public Utilities
11-6-30: Sediment And Erosion Control
11-6-31: Recreational Facilities
11-6-1: INTRODUCTION:
All subdivisions shall be designed and constructed to conform with the
principles, requirements, standards and specifications enumerated in this
chapter.
A major share of what eventually becomes publicly owned improvements are
designed and constructed by private interest. This chapter has been prepared
for the purpose of ensuring that the design of such improvements will result in
construction meeting the requirements of the city. The intent of this chapter
is to explain the processing requirements and procedures as required by the
city code for the various documents required prior to, during, and after
construction in order to accomplish these purposes. In addition, this chapter
is intended to provide a uniform design criteria for facilities designed for or
directly by the city. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-2: SCOPE:
The review and approval of plans, specifications, and contract documents for
certain types of improvements is also the legal responsibility of various other
public agencies in addition to the city. This chapter is not intended as a
substitute for the requirements of such other public agencies. It shall be the
design engineer's responsibility to see that the proposed plans,
specifications, and contract documents meet the legal requirements of all other
public agencies and that any and all permits and bonds required by such
agencies are secured. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-3: PREDESIGN CONFERENCE:
It is recommended that prior to the development of a preliminary plan and/or
detailed engineering plans and specifications the design engineer meet with the
city engineer or his representative to review city requirements for the
proposed project. The request for this preliminary meeting, if desired, shall
be instituted by the design engineer. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-4: PRELIMINARY PLAN PREPARATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Subdivision Preliminary Plan And Supporting Documents:
      1.   Required Form Of A Preliminary Plan:
         a.   Plans, drawings, surveys, maps, schematics, and comparable
material shall be drawn so that clear and legible transparent or contact prints
and Photostat (photographic) copies (reproductions) can be made with a minimum
width of twenty four inches by eighteen inches (24" x 18") and a maximum width
of twenty four inches (24") preferably twenty four inches by thirty six inches
(24" x 36") but with a maximum length of thirty six inches (36"). If the total
preliminary plan exceeds more than one sheet, then a one sheet comprehensive
plan of the entire development and this comprehensive plan sheet will not
exceed forty eight inches (48") in width.
         b.   To be consistent with the current GIS requirements, the city may
encourage but does not require that a digital computer aided drafting file be
submitted in accordance with provisions of this section. The official submittal
shall be the signed reproducible copy.
      2.   Required Content Of A Preliminary Plan Supporting Documents:
         a.   Identification And Description:
            (1)   Name of the subdivision, not duplicating the name of any
other subdivision, the final plat of which has been recorded in McLean County,
Illinois;
            (2)   Legal description of all property included in the preliminary
plan, including a reference to the section, township, and range;
            (3)   Name, address, and phone number of the owner or owners of
record of all property within the preliminary plan;
            (4)   Name, address, and phone number of the developer of the
proposed subdivision;
            (5)   Disclosure of the legal relationship, if any, between the
owner and developer, including any of the following:
               (A)   Agent of owner;
               (B)   Purchaser under a contract for sale with owner, contingent
or otherwise;
               (C)   Unrecorded owner;
               (D)   Contract purchaser.
            (6)   Name, address, phone number of the surveyor or engineering
firm preparing the boundary survey;
            (7)   Name, address, and phone number of the design engineer
preparing any part of the preliminary plan or supporting material;
            (8)   Name, address, and phone number of attorney(s) representing
the owner(s) and/or developer(s);
            (9)   The source of all topographical data;
            (10)   Total acreage in the preliminary plan.
         b.   Survey Maps And Drawings Indicating Existing Conditions: A
professional Illinois land surveyor or licensed professional engineer shall
prepare graphic presentation of the following in each case, with a north point
designation as true north and a date of preparation indicated on the survey
map, drawing or plan. Unless otherwise noted, the following shall be drawn to
an engineering scale not to exceed one hundred feet equals one inch (100' =
1");
            (1)   Boundary line survey map with accurate distances and angles
with a permissible error of closure of one in five thousand (5,000) prepared
and certified accurate by an Illinois professional land surveyor;
            (2)   Topographic map depicting existing contours at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet (2.0'), with reference to USGS datum. The
location of watercourses, marshes, and other significant features. Soil boring
data and seepage tests may be required at locations and depths as determined by
the city or city council;
            (3)   Location and perimeter of any area designated as a special
flood hazard area as defined in the zoning ordinance. If the property included
in the preliminary plan is not in a special flood hazard area the surveyor or
engineer shall so state on the preliminary plan;
            (4)   The existing zoning and zoning district lines within the area
encompassed by the preliminary plan and the area within one hundred feet (100')
thereof;
            (5)   Specific identification, location and dimensions, if
applicable, of the following located within one hundred feet (100') of the area
included in the preliminary plan:
               (A)   Rights of way;
               (B)   Streets;
               (C)   Roadways;
               (D)   Drainageways, improved;
               (E)   Drainageways, unimproved;
               (F)   Walkways and trails;
               (G)   Sidewalks;
               (H)   Public easements;
               (I)   Private easements;
               (J)   Railroad rights of way;
               (K)   Section lines (if included in the description of the
property);
               (L)   Corporate limit lines;
               (M)   Parks, schools, and other public lands;
               (N)   Buildings and structures to remain;
               (O)   Buildings and structures to be removed.
            (6)   Identification, location, size, gradient and invert elevation
of sanitary sewers, storm sewers, drainage culverts, catch basins and sanitary
and storm sewer manholes located within the area included in the preliminary
plan, the area within one hundred feet (100') of the perimeter of the area
included in the preliminary plan or located elsewhere if such constitutes the
nearest existing sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage culvert, catch basin,
sanitary sewer manhole or storm sewer manhole serving the area included in the
preliminary plan;
            (7)   Identification and location of water mains, including all
valves and hydrants and any other underground utilities located within the area
included in the preliminary plan, the area within one hundred feet (100') of
the perimeter of the area included in the preliminary plan or located elsewhere
if such constitutes the nearest existing water main, valve or hydrant or other
underground utility serving the area included in the preliminary plan;
            (8)   Location of or reference to location of existing monuments or
survey markers used in preparation of the boundary line survey map and bench
marks;
            (9)   Location map drawn to any scale showing an area bounded by
the nearest major or collector street, but not less than two (2) miles beyond
the boundaries of the area included in the preliminary plan.
         c.   Surveys, Maps, Plans And Drawings Of Proposed Conditions: A
registered professional engineer shall prepare and certify as accurate to the
degree of accuracy specified surveys, maps, plans and drawings with a north
point designated as true north and containing a date of preparation depicting
the proposed arrangement of the area included in the preliminary plan
indicating each of the following to an engineering scale not to exceed one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100');
            (1)   Identification, location and dimensions of any of the
following required or proposed:
               (A)   Rights of way;
               (B)   Interior streets with approximate elevation, widths and
proposed gradient;
               (C)   Exterior streets with approximate elevation, widths and
proposed gradient;
               (D)   Exterior roadways with approximate elevation, widths and
proposed gradient;
               (E)   Street and roadway names;
               (F)   Alleys with approximate elevation and proposed gradient;
               (G)   Walkways and trails;
               (H)   Sidewalks;
               (I)   Public easements;
               (J)   Private easements;
               (K)   Lots;
               (L)   Outlots;
               (M)   Minimum front, rear, side yards and building setback lines
indicating dimensions;
               (N)   Other areas proposed for dedication or reservation to the
public, indicating in each the approximate acreage;
               (O)   Railroad crossings and rights of way;
               (P)   Bridges.
            (2)   Identification, location and size of any of the following
required or proposed:
               (A)   Water mains;
               (B)   Valves;
               (C)   Hydrants;
               (D)   Streetlights.
            (3)   Identification, location, size, gradient, invert elevation,
and typical cross section of any of the following required or proposed in the
area included in the preliminary plan:
               (A)   Drainageways, improved;
               (B)   Drainageways, unimproved;
               (C)   Flood routes.
            (4)   Identification, location, size, gradient, surface elevation,
and invert elevation of any of the following required or proposed in the
preliminary plan:
               (A)   Sanitary sewers;
               (B)   Storm sewers;
               (C)   Sanitary manholes;
               (D)   Storm sewer inlets and manholes;
               (E)   Sump pump drainage systems.
            (5)   Direction of storm water runoff from each lot and outlot
proposed or required in the preliminary plan.
         d.   Seal; Waiver: The preliminary plan shall contain the name(s) and
seal or seals of the professional engineer or engineers preparing all or any
portion of the preliminary plan. All waivers requested of the city's codes and
ordinances shall be listed on the preliminary plan. Approval of a preliminary
plan shall not constitute waiver of any applicable city codes and ordinances
unless the waiver is specifically approved by the mayor and city council.
         e.   Flood Hazard Permit: If applicable, accompanying the preliminary
plan shall be an application for a special flood hazard area development permit
as required in the zoning ordinance. Application form has been provided as
exhibit L on file with the city clerk. The preliminary plan shall show the
limits of the special flood hazard area, changes in grade resulting from
excavation and filling, location and lowest floor elevation of buildings
proposed within the special flood hazard area.
      3.   Preliminary Plan Submission Procedure:
         a.   Initial Submittal: The owner shall submit to the city clerk four
(4) paper copies of a preliminary plan in the form and providing all
information required by this title.
         b.   Final Submittal: Upon approval of a preliminary plan by the city
council, the owner shall submit seven (7) paper and one reproducible Mylar
copies showing any changes requested by the city council. The Mylar copy shall
be considered the official copy.
   B.   Public Improvement Engineering Plans And Specifications:
      1.   Required Form Of Public Improvement Engineering Plans And
Specifications:
         a.   Plans And Specifications: Public improvement engineering plans
and specifications, drawings, schematics and comparable material shall be drawn
on transparent abelene or black waterproof drawing ink on Mylar from which
clear and legible transparent or contact prints and Photostat copies can be
made, with a minimum width of twenty four inches by eighteen inches (24" x 18")
and a maximum width of twenty four inches (24"), preferably twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36") but with a maximum length of thirty six inches
(36"). This shall be considered the official submittal.
         b.   Supporting Material: Supporting material shall be typed on paper
not exceeding eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") in size
(A-size).
         c.   General Drafting Requirements:
            (1)   Plan sheets shall be drawn to scale. The scale shall not
normally be greater than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') horizontal and
one inch equals ten feet (1" = 10') vertical. The scale shall be clearly
labeled on the plan.
            (2)   Plan sheets shall include a north arrow. The north arrow
should normally be oriented to the left, top or right of the sheet.
            (3)   Plan sheets shall include a title block, preferably near the
lower right of the sheet. The title block shall include the name and address of
the design engineer preparing the plan, the date and the sheet number.
            (4)   Stationing shall normally increase from left to right; south
to north and west to east.
      2.   Required Content Of Public Improvement Engineering Plans And
Specifications:
         a.   Identification And Description: The public improvement
engineering plans and specifications shall include a title sheet containing the
following information:
            (1)   The name of the proposed subdivision within which or for
which the public improvements are proposed.
            (2)   The name, address and phone number of the developer(s).
            (3)   The name, address and phone number of the engineering firm
preparing any part of the engineering plans and specifications and an
indication of the part of the plans that engineer or those engineers prepared.
            (4)   Seal or seals of design engineer or engineers preparing all
or any portion of the engineering plans and specifications certifying that the
materials so prepared conform with all applicable city codes and ordinances
except as specifically noted as a requested waiver.
            (5)   Location map drawn to any scale showing area bounded by the
limits of the preliminary plan for which the engineering plans are all or a
portion thereof.
            (6)   Two (2) or more bench mark elevations referenced to USGS
datum within the boundaries of the project or within one hundred feet (100')
outside the boundaries of the project.
            (7)   An index to all sheets contained within the submitted
engineering plans.
         b.   Grading Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a grading plan containing (but not limited to) the
following information:
            (1)   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more than two
feet (2'), with reference to USGS datum.
            (2)   Proposed finish ground surface elevations on all lot corners.
            (3)   Directional arrows of flow of surface waters along rear and
side lot lines.
            (4)   Elevation of proposed ground surface at all building sites
(or pads).
            (5)   Location, description, and surface elevation of all drainage
structures.
            (6)   Directional arrows of flow for flood routing for design
storms which exceed the capacity of the proposed storm sewers (minimum of 100-
year frequency design storm).
            (7)   Typical cross sections of flood routing channels showing
maximum depth of flow (100-year frequency).
            (8)   Lot numbers.
         c.   Drainageway Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a drainageway plan (if applicable) containing (but
not limited to) the following information:
            (1)   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more than two
feet (2'), with reference to USGS datum.
            (2)   Proposed alignment of centerline of right of way and right of
way width for entire length of the proposed improvement and existing alignment
for two hundred feet (200') upstream and downstream of the improvement.
            (3)   Proposed and existing profiles for entire length of the
improvement and existing profile for two hundred feet (200') upstream and
downstream of the improvement.
            (4)   Typical cross section of the drainageway improvement.
            (5)   Cross sections of the improvement showing the before and
after ground surface elevations and 100-year flood surface elevations at fifty
foot (50') intervals.
            (6)   Lot numbers.
         d.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control Plan: The public improvement
engineering plans and specifications shall include a plan for controlling
erosion and sedimentation by one or more of the following methods for the
period when site work commences to the completion of the development:
            (1)   Stop erosion on the site by soil stabilization or runoff
control measures.
            (2)   Allow erosion to take place and then control sediment before
it leaves the site.
            (3)   A combination of the two (2) previous methods.
            (4)   Lot numbers.
         e.   Street, Sidewalk And Trail Plan: The public improvement
engineering plans and specifications shall include a street, sidewalk and trail
plan containing (but not limited to) the following information:
            (1)   Existing and proposed street alignments showing centerline,
face of curb, right of way, and stationing of roadways.
            (2)   Typical cross sections for existing and proposed streets
including street pavement, curb and gutter and sidewalks.
            (3)   Existing and proposed profiles of pavement referenced to
centerline stationing and USGS datum. All proposed vertical curve data shall be
shown, including the station and elevation at fifty foot (50') intervals.
            (4)   Existing and proposed alignment of sidewalks showing edges of
sidewalk.
            (5)   Existing and proposed cross sections of roadways on an
average horizontal interval of fifty feet (50'). (May be omitted for interior
streets with curb and gutter.)
            (6)   Horizontal curve data for all curvilinear alignments of
existing and proposed roadways.
            (7)   Lot numbers.
         f.   Storm Sewer Plan: The public improvement engineering plans shall
include a storm sewer plan containing (but not limited to) the following
information:
            (1)   Alignment and location of existing and proposed storm sewer
conduits and referenced to stationing.
            (2)   Location and identification of all existing and proposed
drainage structures.
            (3)   Size of existing and proposed conduits.
            (4)   Profile of proposed conduits showing invert elevations based
on USGS datum, conduit gradient and crossings of other existing and proposed
utilities.
            (5)   Locations along alignment of proposed conduit of granular
trench backfill placement.
            (6)   Lot numbers.
         g.   Sanitary Sewer Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a sanitary sewer plan containing (but not limited
to) the following information:
            (1)   Alignment and location of existing and proposed sanitary
sewer conduits and referenced to stationing.
            (2)   Location and identification of all existing and proposed
manholes.
            (3)   Location and identification of all proposed sewer services.
            (4)   Size of existing and proposed sewer conduits and services.
            (5)   Profile of proposed sewer conduits showing invert elevations
based on USGS datum, conduit gradient and crossings of other existing and
proposed utilities.
            (6)   Locations along alignment of proposed sewer conduits and
services of granular trench backfill placement.
            (7)   Lot numbers.
         h.   Water Main Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a water main plan containing (but not limited to)
the following information:
            (1)   Alignment and location of existing and proposed water main
conduits and service lines referenced to stationing.
            (2)   Location and identification of all existing and proposed
valves, fittings and hydrants.
            (3)   Location and identification of proposed service lines.
            (4)   Size of existing and proposed water main conduits and
services.
            (5)   Profile of proposed water main conduit showing elevations
based on USGS datum and crossings of other existing and proposed utilities.
Profiles are not required for interior water mains.
            (6)   Locations along alignment of proposed water main conduits and
services of granular trench backfill placement.
            (7)   Lot numbers.
         i.   Streetlight Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a streetlight plan containing (but not limited to)
the following information:
            (1)   Location and identification of existing and proposed
streetlight installation as they relate to the proposed project.
            (2)   Lot numbers.
            (3)   The streetlight plan may be included with another required
plan.
         j.   Sump Pump Discharge Plan: The public improvement engineering
plans shall include a sump pump discharge plan containing (but not limited to)
the following information:
            (1)   Alignment and location of existing and proposed sump pump
discharge conduits and referenced to stationing.
            (2)   Location and identification of all existing and proposed
structures including (but not limited to) manholes, junction tees/wyes, and
cleanouts.
            (3)   Size of existing and proposed conduits.
            (4)   Profile of proposed conduits showing invert elevations based
on USGS datum and crossings of other existing and proposed utilities. (May be
omitted for sump pump lines located adjacent to and parallel with a proposed
street with curb and gutter if shown on the street typical section.)
            (5)   Locations along alignment of proposed conduit of granular
trench backfill placement.
            (6)   Lot numbers.
         k.   Composite Utility Plan: The public improvement engineering plans
shall include a plan showing all existing and proposed improvements including,
but not limited to:
            (1)   Conduits;
            (2)   Manholes, tees, hydrants, valves, and inlets;
            (3)   Size of existing and proposed conduits for water, sanitary
and storm sewers and sump pump discharge;
            (4)   Lot numbers.
            (5)   The composite utility plan may be included with another
required plan.
         l.   Specific Details: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include specific details containing (but not limited to)
the following information:
            (1)   Typical cross sections of streets and right of way.
            (2)   Intersection details for pavement showing joint locations,
elevations, drainage structures and surface water flow.
            (3)   Cul-de-sac details showing joint locations, elevations,
drainage structure surface water flow and centerline control.
         m.   Standard Details: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include standard details containing (but not limited to)
the following information:
            (1)   Pavement, curb and gutter construction.
            (2)   Sidewalk and walkway construction.
            (3)   Storm/sump pump sewer construction.
            (4)   Sanitary sewer construction.
            (5)   Water main construction.
   C.   Final Subdivision Plats And Supporting Material:
      1.   Required Form Of Final Plats:
         a.   Final plats shall be drawn with black waterproof drawing ink on
Mylar, from which clear and legible transparent or contact prints and Photostat
copies can be made, with a maximum width of twenty four inches (24"),
preferably twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), but with a
maximum length of thirty six inches (36").
         b.   Supporting material shall be typed on paper not exceeding eight
and one-half inches by fourteen inches (81/2" x 14") in size.
         c.   To be consistent with current GIS requirements, a digital
submission shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
      2.   Required Content Of Final Plat:
         a.   Identification And Description:
            (1)   The name of the subdivision, not duplicating the name of any
other subdivision, a final plat of which has been recorded in McLean County,
Illinois;
            (2)   The legal description of all property included in the final
plat, including a reference to the section, township, and range; references to
be tied with GIS monuments where available;
            (3)   Name and address of the developer of the proposed
subdivision;
            (4)   Name and address of the professional land surveyor preparing
the boundary survey; and
            (5)   Total area in the final plat in acres.
            (6)   The name of the school district in which the subdivision is
located.
         b.   Lot, Outlot, And Public Improvement Configuration: Illinois
professional land surveyor shall prepare and certify as accurate angular and
linear dimensions of all lines, angles and curvatures to an engineering scale
not to exceed one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') necessary to
accurately depict the location of the following:
            (1)   Rights of way, including the names of any streets or roadways
depicted,
            (2)   Public and private easements,
            (3)   Proposed lots of record consecutively numbered and keyed on
the plat (or on a supplemental sheet) showing the lots platted of the approved
preliminary plan (see exhibit M on file with the city clerk); lot numbers
within a subdivision shall not be repeated even if lots are resubdivided,
            (4)   Outlots, indicated consecutively and keyed on the plat (or on
a supplemental sheet) showing the outlots platted of the approved preliminary
plan,
            (5)   Minimum front yard setbacks,
            (6)   Other areas dedicated or reserved to the public,
            (7)   Railroad rights of way,
            (8)   Boundaries of the subdivision,
            (9)   Field references to:
               (A)   The nearest established street lines and monuments which
shall be accurately described in the plat by location and size.
               (B)   Township and section lines if the same are within the
boundary of the final plat or within one hundred feet (100') therefrom,
referenced accurately to the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
this requirement may be waived for resubdivision of existing final platted
lots. This is not needed for the survey and is not readily recoverable.
               (C)   All monuments placed at all block corners, angle points
and at intermediate points installed in such a manner that they may be located
by a professional land surveyor.
               (D)   Reference survey to at least two (2) GIS monuments if
available as recorded in order to incorporate plat into GIS based mapping. This
requirement may be waived for resubdivision of existing platted lots of record.
            (10)   A signed statement by an Illinois professional land surveyor
stating which lots (if any) are located within a special flood hazard area.
         c.   Certificates: The final plat shall be accompanied by the
following certificates duly and appropriately executed in substantially the
form presented in the exhibit specified, on file with the city clerk:
            (1)   Owners, with notary: Exhibits A1, A2, and A3;
            (2)   Surveys: Exhibit B;
            (3)   Drainage: Exhibit C;
            (4)   County's clerk: Exhibit D;
            (5)   Plat officers: For final plats of land located outside the
city's corporate limits but within the jurisdiction of this title: Exhibit F.
      3.   Final Plat Submittal: The owner shall submit to the city clerk two
(2) reproducible Mylar, four (4) paper and one digital computer aided drafting
file copies (to be consistent with current GIS requirements) of the final plat
in the format and providing all information required by this title. (Ord. 542,
11-26-2007)
11-6-5: SPECIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Technical specifications shall be submitted with the public improvement
engineering plans and shall be complete in themselves, except that appropriate
specific sections of the most recent editions of the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction" as published by the Illinois department of
transportation, and the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois", and the various standard published material
specifications prepared by associations such as the "American Society for
Testing and Materials" and the "American Water Works Association", may be
incorporated by reference.
The specifications shall include (but not limited to) all information not shown
on the drawings which is necessary to establish in detail the quality of
materials and workmanship required in the project, other parameters for testing
the various parts of the project and instructions for testing material and
equipment.
The specifications shall include clauses which state:
   A.   All work shall be in conformance with the approved plans and
specifications.
   B.   All work included in the plans shall be guaranteed by the contractor to
be free from defects in workmanship and materials for a period of twelve (12)
months from the date of acceptance by the city council.
   C.   The contractor shall replace or repair any work or material found to be
defective or in nonconformance within the guarantee period upon written notice
from the city engineer.
Special provisions specific to construction within the city are specified in
the various sections of this title and are to be used as a guide for the
preparation of specifications to be submitted to the city engineer for review
and approval. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
 
11-6-6: DESIGN COMPUTATION REQUIREMENTS:
Design computations shall be made by the design engineer for all phases of the
project when such computations are required by this section or in the opinion
of the city engineer to ensure the adequacy and stability of the work, and the
work complies with appropriate standards. Said computations shall be neat and
legible and in a form required by this section and that can be readily followed
and understood by a competent engineer.
Said computations will include (but not necessarily be limited to) the
following:
   A.   Submitted With Subdivision Preliminary Plan: Preliminary design
calculations used by the design engineer for the following:
      1.   Detention/retention basin design.
      2.   Storm sewer system design.
      3.   Sanitary sewer design.
The calculations above may be deferred or waived by mutual agreement of the
design engineer and the city engineer at the time of preliminary plan
submittal.
   B.   Submitted With Public Improvement Engineering Plans: Detailed design
calculations for the following:
      1.   Detention/retention basin design.
      2.   Storm sewer system design.
      3.   Sanitary sewer system design.
      4.   Flood routing and waterway design.
      5.   Bridge and culvert hydraulic design (if necessary).
      6.   Structural design data for pavement of minor commercial, collector
and major streets.
      7.   Traffic projections.
   C.   Submitted With Final Subdivision Plats:
      1.   Boundary closure calculations.
      2.   All digital submittal information as required in this chapter.
      3.   Ties to GIS monuments where available.
Form and content for each set of detailed design computations submitted with
public improvement engineering plans and final subdivision plats are specified
in the following sections of this chapter:
Design Computation Section
Design Computation                       Section
Coordinate geometry calculations for ROW 11-6-20
Boundary closure calculations            11-6-20
Lot corner coordinate data               11-6-20
Detention/retention basin design         11-6-23
Storm sewer system design                11-6-23
Flood routing and open channel design    11-6-23
Sanitary sewer design                    11-6-24
Bridge and culvert hydraulic design      11-6-27
Sediment and erosion control             11-6-30
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-7: ESTIMATE REQUIREMENTS:
The design engineer shall prepare a detailed estimate of the cost of the work,
categorized to show the various divisions of the work, including engineering
costs as a separate item, itemized in such a fashion as to make possible a
comparison of the estimated cost with actual cost encountered for similar work
in the past.
Estimates of cost will be required as follows:
   A.   At the submittal of public improvement engineering plans and
specifications to the city engineer for approval.
   B.   Prior to release of funds from escrow accounts posted as security for
payment, performance, and workmanship guarantees by the city engineer.
   C.   Prior to release of funds from cash reserve accounts posted as security
for adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee and security by the city
engineer.
   D.   Submittal of final subdivision plat for approval.
An example form of estimate of cost is provided as exhibit N on file with the
city clerk. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-8: OTHER PERMIT APPLICATIONS AND APPROVALS:
Other governmental agencies may review and approve for construction all or
certain parts of the work included in a project and may require a permit or
application for a permit for such work. They may also require that such a
permit or application for a permit be executed by the city. When such a permit
or permit application is required it shall be prepared, ready for signatures,
containing all required supporting documentation, by the design engineer with
sufficient copies for the city to retain one. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-9: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ENGINEERING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS, SUBMISSION AND
REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The documents requiring city approval shall be submitted by the design engineer
to the city engineer, with a letter of transmittal tabulating the items being
submitted. The documents to be approved and the number required by the city is
set out below. The design engineer shall add to the documents the quantity he
would like returned to him marked approved on their face, or in the case of
permit applications, executed by the city for submittal to other agencies.
The submittal shall be made in two (2) parts. The initial submittal should be
made and returned to the design engineer prior to the final submittal.
Documents included in the initial submittal are as follows:
 
Plans               2 sets
Specifications      2 sets
Design computations 2 sets
 
After completion of the review of the initial submittal, the city engineer will
advise the design engineer by letter of any items that do not meet the
requirements of the city. The design engineer/developer may then revise the
documents and make the final submission.
Documents in the final submittal shall include the following:
 
Plans               6 sets
Specifications      6 sets
Estimate            2 sets
Permit applications 2 sets
 
When the final submittal meets the requirements of this section and city code,
the city engineer shall transmit his written approval of the submitted
documents to the design engineer and city mayor. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-10: APPROVAL PERIOD:
Approval of the public improvement engineering plans and specifications by the
city engineer shall be applicable for a period for which there is a valid
preliminary subdivision plan. If construction is not commenced within said
period, the approval will be void. Reactivation of such voided approvals will
require a written request for extension which will be considered with due
consideration for any new requirements that may be established by the city in
the interim. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-11: GUARANTEES BY DEVELOPER:
Where proposed work is being constructed by a developer, the developer shall
guarantee that all work in the project shall be free from defects in
workmanship and materials and in conformance with the approved plans and
specifications. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-12: PLAN REVIEW, INSPECTION, AND TESTING FEES:
Prior to the city engineer transmitting his approval of the public improvement
engineering plans and specifications and prior to the recording of the final
plat, the developer shall pay to the city a fee of two percent (2%) of the
approved estimated costs of such improvements. Said fee shall be applied as
credit against the actual costs incurred by the city for review of said plans,
coordination meetings, and the inspection and testing of said improvements.
The actual costs shall be paid to the city by the developer on a monthly basis
as costs are incurred until review and inspection have been completed. (Ord.
542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-13: REVISIONS TO APPROVED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ENGINEERING PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS:
Any deviations from approved plans or specifications affecting capacity,
stability or operation of the improvements shall be approved in writing by the
city engineer before such changes are made. Minor changes not affecting
capacity, stability or operation of the improvements will not require formal
approval but must be approved by the field inspector representing the city
engineer. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-14: INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION PROCEDURES:
Prior to construction commencing, the design engineer may arrange with the city
engineer to set and conduct a preconstruction meeting with representatives of
contractors, and utility companies present. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-15: RECORD DRAWINGS:
The design engineer shall submit to the city engineer, within nine (9) months
of the city's acceptance for maintenance, record drawings of the public
improvement engineering plans. Final release of the subdivision bond will not
be made until the record drawings have been received by the city engineer.
Record drawings submitted shall be one set of clear and legible transparent
Mylar and one set of Photostat prints of the underground improvement plans and
one digital computer aided drafting file in accordance with this chapter (to be
consistent with current GIS requirements), approved depicting the improvements
as actually installed or constructed.
The design engineer will receive from the water and street department all
inspection reports required to prepare the record drawings adequately. The
inspection reports will be available to the design engineer after the
improvements have been inspected and tested. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-16: PROJECT COMPLETION AND FINAL ACCEPTANCE:
Prior to the city engineer recommending that the city accept the project for
maintenance, the city engineer shall make a final inspection of the completed
work. The city engineer shall then prepare a final punch list, itemizing all
items not meeting the requirements of the approved plans and specifications. On
the completion of all items listed in the final punch list to the satisfaction
of the city engineer, the city engineer shall recommend in writing to the mayor
that the city accept the project for maintenance. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-17: WAIVER FOR REQUIREMENTS:
Where conditions so warrant, the city council may waive any of the requirements
of this title. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-18: ELECTRONIC DRAFTING FILE STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these specifications is to provide a standard
for the transfer media and the format of the data files for submission to the
city engineer and McLean County regional planning commission. The goal is to
save the city, consultants and developers time and money by providing a set of
CAD (computer aided drafting) standards that will allow for easier referencing
and combining of files from one or more designs or sets of field data. By
following these standards, files will be uniform allowing for quicker access
and editing of files produced at any time or by different people. It will also
allow the McLean County regional planning commission to automate the process of
adding data to a GIS (geographic information system).
   B.   Electronic Files Required: The electronic files submitted will be used
for two (2) purposes:
      1.   GIS update: This requires the plat or project to be a homogenous
continuous design based on state plane coordinates as outlined in subsection D
of this section. Notes are not needed.
      2.   Electronic plans: This is the source for each printed page in a plat
or plan. Electronic files shall be provided when submitting final copies of:
         a.   Annexation plats.
         b.   Final plats.
      3.   Record drawings of public improvement engineering plans (including
title page, grading plan, drainageway, street, sidewalk and trail [except cross
sections], storm sewer, sanitary sewer, water main, streetlights, sump pump,
structures).
      4.   Electronic files are required for record drawings and final plats
for subdivisions approved under the expedited procedure.
   C.   Media: Files may be submitted on DVD or CD-ROM. Files may be zipped as
long as they are self-extracting or the extraction utility is provided. All
files and media are to be in an IBM compatible format.
   D.   CAD Standard: This CAD (computer aided drafting) standard is based on
the IDOT (Illinois department of transportation) drafting standards where
feasible.
Files submitted shall be MicroStation DGN files or AutoCAD DWG version 2000 or
later. The files shall have the following properties:
      1.   The actual working plat or design project shall use Illinois state
plane east zone metric coordinates, USGS zone 3776, FIPS zone 1201, projection
will be Transverse Mercator. The USGS datum will be horizontal NAD 83 and
vertical NGVD 29. The plat or project shall properly edge match to adjoining
plats or design.
      2.   Files shall be three-dimensional design files for plans and two-
dimensional design for plats. Individual pages such as title page or typical
sections may be two-dimensional design files.
      3.   If CAD files are converted from English units to metric units use
0.3048 ft/m for conversion. English units are required unless otherwise
approved by the city in writing.
      4.   If using AutoCAD DWG files the following applies:
         a.   All unused blocks shall be purged from AutoCAD files.
      5.   If using MicroStation DGN files the following apply:
         a.   The global origin shall be set to the lower left of the design
file.
         b.   Working units shall be English unless metric is required. For
metric: 1000 subunits (mm) per master unit (m). One subunit per positional
unit. Master units shall be designated m for meters. Subunits shall be
designated mm for millimeters.
         c.   Reference files used shall be in the same subdirectory as the
active design file. The attachment of the reference files done shall be set
with "save full path" off.
         d.   Design files shall be compressed, to remove deleted elements,
before submittal.
         e.   Element attributes/symbology shall be in accordance with the
table on file with the city clerk. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-19: PROTECTION AND RESTORATION:
   A.   Introduction: Public improvements required in connection with a
subdivision or development are often in or adjacent to areas with existing
surface or underground improvements. The intent of this chapter is to codify
special city requirements relative to the construction of proposed improvements
and restoration of existing improvements affected by the construction. Plans
and specifications presented for city approval shall provide for the
implementation of the requirements of this section.
   B.   Specifications And Special Provisions: All public improvement projects
shall be completed in accordance with all applicable sections of the most
current editions of the Illinois department of transportation's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", and the "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois" and any
amendments, additions or other requirements contained herein.
      1.   Protection:
         a.   Traffic Control: All work within the public ROW shall be
completed in accordance with the latest edition of the "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD) as published by IDOT. The provisions of this
manual will be enforced whenever work is in progress within the existing
roadway or adjacent to it or as required by the city engineer.
Lane closures will be required whenever construction is performed or vehicles
are parked in a lane normally used for through traffic. Written permission for
all lane closures must be obtained from the water and streets department and
the police department. On major and collector streets, one lane for each
direction shall be maintained open to traffic except during the actual
excavating and laying operations. No more than one-half (1/2) the width of the
street may be closed to traffic during the construction and curing of the
permanent pavement patch.
Required traffic control signing shall be in strict conformance with the manual
cited above and/or as shown on the plans. No construction shall commence until
such time that all required signs and barricades have been erected. The
contractor shall also be responsible for contacting police, fire and any public
transportation authorities.
         b.   Bracing And Sheeting: Open cut trenches shall be sheeted and
braced as required by any governing federal or state laws and municipal
ordinances, and as may be necessary to protect life, property and the work.
         c.   Trench Side Slopes: The contractor may, where working conditions
and right of way permit, excavate pipeline trenches with sloping sides above
the top of the conduit only.
         d.   Tunneling: Contractor may utilize short tunnels to avoid
obstructions such as trees, fire hydrants, sidewalks and curbs.
         e.   Stockpiling Of Excavated Material: All excavated material shall
be stockpiled such that it will not endanger the work and will avoid
obstructing streets, sidewalks, driveways, watercourses, fire hydrants, valve
pit covers, valve boxes, curb stops and other utility controls.
         f.   Protection Of Property And Structures: Any existing or new
property or structures disturbed or damaged during construction shall be
replaced or repaired to the satisfaction of the owner, at the contractor's
expense.
         g.   Utilities: The utility companies shall be notified of a proposed
project and the plans should indicate the general location of the utility main
lines. It shall be the contractor's responsibility before beginning any
construction to obtain from all utilities the exact locations of all
underground facilities in the area of construction, whether shown on the plans
or not. Any facilities disturbed by the contractor shall be repaired at the
contractor's expense.
Residents and businesses shall be notified a minimum of twenty four (24) hours
in advance of impending service outages, and no business or residence shall be
without service overnight.
         h.   Workplace Safety: Nothing in this title is intended or shall be
construed to reduce the responsibility of the contractor, a subcontractor,
anyone directly or indirectly employed by them, or anyone for whose acts they
may be liable, from full and complete supervision and achievement of workplace
safety. Any inspection of the work conducted by the city engineer, or his/her
designated representatives, whether notice of the results thereof is provided
to anyone or not provided to anyone, shall neither establish any duty on their
parts nor create any expectation of a duty to anyone, including, but not
limited to, third parties, regarding workplace safety.
      2.   Restoration Of Public Facilities: Contractor shall restore all
pavements, sidewalks, driveways, curbs, buffers, trees, shrubs, lawns, fences,
poles and other structures and property removed or disturbed during or as a
result of construction operations to a condition which is equal in appearance
and quality to the condition that existed before the work began.
         a.   Removal Of Pavements, Sidewalks, Curbs, Gutters, And Driveways:
All removal shall be completed in accordance with all applicable sections of
the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" and any special
provisions contained herein. When removal is required for the installation of a
conduit, the width of the removal shall exceed the actual trench width by one
foot (1') on each side. Removal of PCC sidewalk, PCC pavement, PCC driveways,
PCC curb and gutter shall be to the nearest joint unless otherwise directed by
the city engineer.
         b.   Replacement Of Pavements, Sidewalks, Curbs, Gutters, And
Driveways: All replacements shall be completed in accordance with all
applicable sections of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" and any special provisions contained herein. For all PCC
replacements, concrete meeting the requirements of the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction" shall be used.
            (1)   Pavement Removal And Replacement Types A, B, C And D:
Pavement shall be removed and replaced according to the following standards:
               (A)   Types Of Patching: The type of patching required shall
depend upon the existing pavement:
                  (i)   Type A patches shall apply to pavements that have
existing aggregate base and bituminous surface.
                  (ii)   Type B patches shall apply to pavements that have
existing concrete base and bituminous surface, brick base and bituminous
surface or bituminous base and bituminous surface.
                  (iii)   Type C patches shall apply to existing pavements that
have existing brick surface or concrete surface. Reinforcement will be required
where the existing pavement is presently reinforced.
                  (iv)   Type D patches shall apply to existing pavements that
have existing brick surface that the city has designated to be preserved.
            (2)   Driveway Replacement: The type of replacement required shall
depend on the existing pavement:
 
Type A Existing concrete driveway shall be replaced with a new minimum 6 inches
       Portland cement concrete surface
       Existing bituminous surface driveway shall be replaced with a new
Type B minimum 8 inches thick aggregate base and minimum 3 inches thick
       bituminous concrete surface
       Existing crushed stone driveway shall be replaced with a new minimum 8
Type C inches thick crushed aggregate surface with the top 4 inches being the
       same material as the existing
 
            (3)   Sidewalk Replacement: Sidewalk shall be replaced to the same
depth and width as the existing unless otherwise directed by the city engineer.
One-half inch (1/2") thick preformed expansion joints shall be placed at
locations abutting existing work and at fifty foot (50') intervals in the new
walk.
            (4)   Curb And Gutter Replacement: Curb and gutter shall be
replaced to the dimensions and cross section as the existing, unless otherwise
directed by the city engineer, one-half inch (1/2") thick preformed expansion
joints shall be placed at the junction of new and existing work and at all
points of curvature.
         c.   Removal Limits: The limits of the pavement repair shall be saw
cut in a rectangular pattern to a depth of not less than three inches (3").
Type A patches shall be a minimum of three feet (3') in width. Type B and type
C patches shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in width. For type B and type C
patches the new pavement shall be shouldered one foot (1') minimum on either
side of the trench on undisturbed ground.
Whenever a series of type A or type B patches are made in such a manner so as
to leave less than five feet (5') of undisturbed bituminous surface between
adjacent patches, it shall be required that the bituminous surface between the
patches be removed and the entire area resurfaced.
PCC pavements not in good condition shall be repaired in accordance with
typical detail shown for type C patching. Whenever a pavement patch is less
than five feet (5') from the pavement edge, contraction joint, crack, etc., the
pavement patch shall be enlarged to meet the edge, joint or crack and the
entire excavated area paved as one patch. The limits of pavement removal on
type D patching shall be in such a manner that whole bricks will be used in the
replacement and that the replaced brick course extends beyond the limits of the
concrete base course.
         d.   Trench Backfill: All utility trenches on minor streets shall be
backfilled with trench backfill. Material for trench backfill shall comply with
the latest edition of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" in Illinois except that the maximum aggregate size shall be three
inches (3"). Approved compacted granular material shall be required in all
trenches extending two feet (2') either side of all sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
driveways and pavements. Trench backfill shall be compacted by mechanical means
in one foot (1') lifts.
         e.   Jetting Of Trenches: Utility trenches on minor streets may be
compacted by jetting and allowed to dry before the permanent base and surface
course are constructed.
         f.   Controlled Low Strength Material: All utility trenches on
collector and major streets shall be backfilled with controlled density fill
from one foot (1') above pipe to bottom of subgrade. Controlled density fill
shall meet the requirements of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         g.   Temporary Asphalt Surface: After completion of backfilling the
excavation, a temporary asphalt surface shall be placed as soon as possible or
as directed by the city engineer with a minimum thickness of two inches (2").
This surface shall be maintained by the excavation contractor until the
permanent patch is constructed. Steel plates may be used for type B patches to
bridge the utility trench patch during the curing period for the PC concrete
base course in order to open the traffic lane to traffic during this period.
         h.   Field/Drain Tile: All existing drain tile lines which cross the
trench of a proposed sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water main and services shall
be accurately recorded and marked in the field by the contractor. Upon
completion of the installation of the underground utilities, the contractor
shall furnish a copy of all drain tile locations to the city engineer. The
engineer shall analyze these locations and all tiles should be reconnected. All
existing drain tile lines crossing the proposed street rights of way shall be
removed from a point six feet (6') beyond the right of way on each side. All
drain tile lines reconstructed or connected to the storm sewer system shall be
constructed of either PVC water main with slip-on joints (up to 12 inches) or
reinforced concrete storm sewer pipe of class 3 or class 4 as required by depth
in accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction". Drain tiles to be reconnected shall be repaired so that their
carrying capacity shall not be impaired. Drain tile shall be repaired with PVC
SDR 26 pipe, a minimum of two inches (2") larger diameter than the severed
tile. The length of the plastic pipe shall be such that it bears a minimum of
two feet (2') on undisturbed soil on each side of the trench, with each field
tile to plastic pipe junction encased in concrete. All repairs shall be
inspected and approved by the city engineer prior to backfilling. Compacted
granular backfill shall be required if under a street or sidewalk. The plastic
pipe to drain tile junction shall be wrapped with burlap or other material
approved by the city engineer prior to encasement to prevent concrete from
entering the flow line of the pipe. For drain tile under streets, the use of
concrete or ductile iron pipe is required.
         i.   Restoration Of Vegetative Areas: All vegetative areas disturbed
during construction shall be restored by furnishing and placing topsoil to a
minimum depth of four inches (4") and seeding of the area in accordance with
the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" or as directed
by the engineer.
         j.   Cleanup: Before acceptance of underground conduit construction,
all pipes, manholes, catch basins, hydrants and other appurtenances shall be
cleaned of all debris and foreign material.
      3.   Special Provisions Modifying Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction In Illinois:
         a.   Construction In Easements: The top six inches (6") of any ground
disturbed due to construction on private property in an inhabited area shall be
replaced with topsoil and restored to its original condition at no additional
cost to the owner.
         b.   Agricultural Surface Restoration: At locations as shown on the
plans or designated by the engineer, the contractor shall restore any and all
agricultural areas. Prior to the installation of the proposed pipes, the
contractor shall remove all topsoil from the construction area and stockpile it
along the edge of the working limits.
Upon the completion of the installation of the pipes and placing of the subsoil
backfill, the contractor shall replace the original topsoil over the top of the
disturbed area so that the finished surface shall be level and smooth and
contain all of the original topsoil at approximately the same depth as prior to
construction.
         c.   Removal Of Soil From Agricultural Areas: No soil will be removed
from the areas designated for agricultural surface restoration unless the owner
or his representative gives written consent.
   C.   Standard Details: On file with the city clerk:
 
Drawing   Title                  
Number
A        Pavement patching details types A, B and C
B        Pavement patching detail type D
C        Drain tile repair detail
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-20: GENERAL SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Introduction: All subdivisions shall be designed to conform with the
planning principles, layout and design requirements of this section. These
principles and design requirements concern entire systems rather than
individual elements of the system, and so express concepts rather than specific
standards. Specific standards are elaborated in other sections of this title.
   B.   Subdivision Principles Of Planning: Basic principles exist which should
be recognized and heeded in designing circulation and access systems in new
subdivisions of conventional layout.
Basic consideration in the design of minor circulation systems must recognize
the factors of: 1) safety for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic, 2)
efficiency of service for all users, 3) livability or amenities especially as
affected by traffic elements in the circulation system, and 4) economy of both
construction and use of land.
Each of the following principles is an elaboration on one or more of these four
(4) factors. The principles are not intended as absolute criteria, since
instances may appear where certain principles conflict. The principles should,
therefore, be used as guides to proper systems layout.
      1.   Adequate vehicular and pedestrian access should be provided to all
parcels.
      2.   Minor street systems should be designed to minimize through traffic
movements.
      3.   Street patterns should minimize out of the way vehicular traffic.
      4.   Minor street systems should be logical and comprehensible; street
names should be simple, consistent, understandable, and not duplicate existing
street names.
      5.   Minor circulation systems and land development patterns should not
detract from the efficiency of major and collector streets.
      6.   Elements in the minor circulation system should not have to rely on
extensive traffic regulations in order to function efficiently and safely.
      7.   Traffic generators within residential areas should be considered in
the minor circulation pattern.
      8.   Planning and construction of minor streets should clearly indicate
their function.
      9.   The minor street system should be designed for a relatively uniform
low volume of street traffic.
      10.   Minor streets should be designed to discourage excessive speeds.
      11.   Pedestrian-vehicular conflict points should be minimized.
      12.   An optimum amount of space should be devoted to street uses.
      13.   The arrangement of minor streets should permit economical and
practical patterns, shapes and sizes of development parcels.
      14.   Minor streets should be related to topography from the standpoint
of both economics, drainage and amenities.
      15.   Open space areas should be provided, commensurate with the
projected population density of the development.
      16.   Major elements of the street system may be used to help define and
buffer different land use areas enhancing their identity and cohesiveness.
      17.   The street and pedestrian circulation pattern in a new residential
subdivision shall be compatible with the city's comprehensive plan.
      18.   Subdivision layout should optimize the overall length of streets.
      19.   A residential area should be conveniently accessible from major and
collector streets.
      20.   Access points to major and collector street facilities should be
limited in number, given special design consideration, and whenever possible,
located where other features are not competing for driver attention.
      21.   Driveway entrances should be prohibited on major streets and
whenever possible on collector streets in residentially zoned areas.
      22.   Through traffic on minor residential streets should be avoided
where practical.
      23.   Lot layout in residential subdivisions should be designed to reduce
the incidence of housing on major streets.
      24.   Public utilities, including water, storm sewer and sanitary sewer
facilities, should be existing or proposed by the developer or the city of
Chenoa of a size adequate to serve the proposed subdivision and any other
future development they may be required to service.
      25.   The general land use principles and planning standards should be
applied to the subdivision as contained in the city of Chenoa comprehensive
plan.
      26.   Cul-de-sac streets shall not be allowed in order to encourage more
equal utilization of minor streets unless the city council grants a variance
from this section.
      27.   Require where feasible more than one entrance to a subdivision.
      28.   Require interconnection of adjoining residential subdivisions where
feasible.
   C.   Layout And Design Requirements For Proposed Lots Of Record And Outlots:
      1.   Subdivisions shall consist solely and exclusively of lots of record,
outlots, easements, public rights of way and public improvements.
      2.   All proposed lots of record shall front on and have access to a
public street or roadway.
      3.   All proposed lots of record shall meet or exceed the lot size,
dimension and area requirements of any applicable zoning regulations of the
city of Chenoa and when applicable the county of McLean.
      4.   Outlots may not be used for buildings or parking lots.
      5.   Rear, side and front yard easements shall be dedicated to the city
for use by the city and private utility companies (for gas, electricity, cable
TV, water, storm sewer or storm water drainage, sanitary sewer, etc.) as
provided herein.
      6.   Where residential lots are platted abutting a major street, the
"backup" treatment should be used and a "no access" strip depicted on those
lots adjacent to the major street.
      7.   Boundaries of the subdivision shall be drawn to meet or exceed the
following standards:
         a.   Error of closure of boundary lines survey shall not exceed five
thousand (5,000);
         b.   Angular error shall not exceed plus or minus twenty (±20)
seconds;
         c.   Lot line dimensions shall be shown in feet and hundredths;
         d.   Angles occurring in any lot line between lot corners shall be
shown in degrees, minutes, and seconds.
      8.   In general, lots shall be as nearly rectangular in shape as
practicable.
      9.   Side lot lines shall generally be perpendicular to the right of way.
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-21: STREETS:
   A.   Introduction: All lots in any subdivision, regardless of size, shall
front on and have access to a street. When necessary, streets shall be included
as part of the subdivision and shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with this section.
   B.   General Requirements: All subdivisions shall be designed so the
proposed street system accomplishes the following:
      1.   Conforms with the city of Chenoa comprehensive plan. The city shall
determine the minimum pavement requirements in general conformance with table A
of this subsection B.
   Table A
 
MINIMUM PAVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
Type A 8 inches Portland cement concrete surface pavement reinforced joint, or
       equivalent
Type B 4 inches bituminous concrete surface course, class I, over 6 inches
       Portland cement concrete pavement, or equivalent
       4 inches bituminous plant mix, class I or B, over 8 inches aggregate
Type C base course; type B or 6 inches Portland cement concrete pavement or
       equivalent
       2 inches bituminous concrete surface course, class I, over 7 inches
Type D bituminous stabilized aggregate base or 6 inches Portland cement
       concrete pavement or equivalent
Type E Bituminous surface treatment, class A-3 over 8 inches aggregate base
       course, type B or equivalent
Type F 6 inches aggregate base course, type B or equivalent
 
   MINIMUM PAVEMENT REQUIREMENTS BY
   ROADWAY CLASSIFICATION
Roadway Classification Pavement Type 1
Roadway Classification                                         Pavement Type 1
Major street (highway)
(Note: Urban street includes functional classification minor   A, B
arterial up through major highway. Rural highway includes
functional classifications of area service highway and above.)
Collector street (highway)
(Note: Urban street includes functional classification of      A, B, C, D
collector. Rural highway includes functional classification
major and minor collectors.)
Local street: Urban                                            A, B, C, D
Local highway: Rural                                           A, B, C, D, E
Marginal access road                                           A, B, C, D, E
Business district                                              A, B
Industrial district                                            A, B
Alley                                                          A, B, C, D, E, F
Note:
1.   Pavement description: All pavement types regulated by "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", state of Illinois.
 
      2.   Extends major and collector streets through the proposed
subdivision.
      3.   Locates and aligns minor streets so that use by through traffic is
discouraged.
      4.   Avoids centerline offsets of less than two hundred fifty feet (250')
from other streets or roadways for minor streets. For offsets from major/
collector streets a more detailed engineering study may be required.
      5.   Where the angle of deflection in horizontal centerlines exceeds five
degrees (5°), a curve shall be inserted with a radius of not less than the
following dimensions, depending on the classification of the street involved:
         a.   Minor street: Sixty five feet (65').
         b.   All others as per IDOT.
      6.   So that not more than two (2) streets intersect at any point and so
that the angle of intersection of centerlines is not less than eighty degrees
(80°) nor more than one hundred degrees (100°).
      7.   In single-family zoning districts so that cul-de-sacs do not exceed
one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length or have more than fifteen (15)
lots fronting thereon, whichever imposes the more demanding standard and in
multiple-family and two-family zoning districts so that cul-de-sacs do not
exceed four hundred feet (400') or have more than eight (8) lots fronting
thereon, whichever imposes the more demanding standard.
      8.   Encourage safe and efficient traffic flow and provide sufficient
vehicular storage space for stopping and turning movements so as not to
conflict with traffic at intersecting streets or driveway entrances.
      9.   In residentially zoned areas access to a major or collector street
shall be provided every one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') or no more than
one thousand eight hundred (1,800) as measured along the major or collector
street.
      10.   Streets shall be curb and gutter. The minimum curb radius where two
(2) streets intersect shall be twenty five feet (25') to face of curb. For
major, collector, and minor commercial streets, curb radii shall be sufficient
to accommodate the appropriate design vehicle in accordance with Illinois
department of transportation "Design And Environment Manual".
      11.   Cul-de-sac streets if allowed shall not be constructed "back to
back". (Back yards on one cul-de-sac may not be adjacent to back yards of
another cul-de-sac.)
      12.   Lots zoned R-1 shall have a minimum sixty foot (60') lot width
measured at the building set back line if located on the bulb of a cul-de-sac
street.
      13.   Driveways shall not encompass more than fifty percent (50%) of the
curb on the bulb of a cul-de-sac street.
   C.   Public Street Right Of Way Dedication:
      1.   Location Of Streets And Roadways: All streets and roadways proposed
within the confines of a subdivision shall be located in dedicated public or
private right of way as required by this section. All streets are considered
public unless specifically stated that they are private on the preliminary plan
and final plat.
      2.   Interior Streets/Public Streets: Subdivisions shall be designed so
all interior streets are located within dedicated public rights of way of the
following minimum widths, depending on the street classification, the volume of
traffic and the zoning of the abutting property (where side streets abut 2 or
more zoning districts, right of way dedication shall be provided so as to meet
the requirement of the more demanding zoning district):
 
                           R-1, R-1A,                C-1, C-2, I-1,
Type Of Street             R-2, R-3, MH              I-2, I-3, I-4, H-1
                           Zoning Districts          Zoning Districts
Major                                                
   Over 1200 DV         96 feet                   96 feet
   Under 1200 DHV       86 feet                   90 feet
   Collector                     80 feet          90 feet
Minor                      60 feet                   70 feet
4-lane divided with median 100 feet                  100 feet
Cul-de-sac (diameter)      100 feet                  120 feet
(if allowed)
Frontage roads             60 feet                   60 feet
 
         a.   Expressway: In accordance with the comprehensive plan of the city
of Chenoa or interstate standards and requirements of the federal, state,
county or township authorities having jurisdiction, whichever has the greater
right of way width requirement.
         b.   Private streets: Subdivisions shall be designed so all interior
streets are located within dedicated rights of way of the following minimum
width:
            (1)   Street without sidewalk: Three feet (3') back of curb to
three feet (3') back of curb.
            (2)   Street with one adjacent sidewalk: Back at sidewalk to three
feet (3') back of curb.
            (3)   Street with two (2) adjacent sidewalks: Back of sidewalk to
back of sidewalk.
      3.   Exterior Streets: Subdivisions shall be designed so that the
subdivider provides not less than one-half (1/2) the right of way dedication
required for a comparable interior street.
      4.   Supplemental Dedication: Where the street design requirements of
this title require the provision of turning lanes, turning radii, center
median, traffic control devices or other installation which cannot be installed
within the right of way otherwise required by this title without the
elimination or conflict between such features and other public improvements,
the subdivider shall dedicate such additional right of way as is necessary to
accommodate all such improvements.
   D.   Design Standards:
      1.   Street Width: Pavement width shall be based on street
classification, the expected traffic volume and the zoning district (the more
demanding standard shall apply) in accordance with the following:
Street Pavement Width         Median Street Width
       (Face To Face Of Curb)
Street              Pavement Width          Median Street Width
                    (Face To Face Of Curb)
Major                                       
   Over 855 DHV     51 feet              4 feet
   495-855 DHV      47 feet              0
   Under 495 DHV    36 feet              0
Collector                                   
   Over 495 DHV     47 feet              0
   Under 495 DHV    39 feet              0
Minor                  30 feet              0
Frontage roads         30 feet              0
Boulevards             2 at 22 feet         10 feet
One-way                24 feet              0
Private street         30 feet            
   R-1 zoning       30 feet            
   R-1 zoning       24 feet            
                    (if no parking allowed)
   All other zoni   30 feet            
 
      2.   Pavement Structure: Structural strength shall be based on street
classification, the expected traffic volume and designed in accordance with
current:
         a.   Illinois department of transportation "Design And Environment
Manual".
         b.   Illinois department of transportation "Highway Standards".
         c.   Illinois department of transportation "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction".
Minor streets shall be constructed with a minimum of ten inches (10") of
compacted crushed aggregate and four inches (4") of bituminous concrete
surface, or six inches (6") of Portland cement concrete, installed in
accordance with "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" in
accordance with the design and construction standards and specifications (See
table in this subsection D, and subsection F of this section.):
      3.   Cul-De-Sac Terminus: Cul-de-sacs are not allowed except by special
exception.
      4.   Vertical Gradients: Differing connecting street gradients shall be
connected with vertical curves. The "Design And Environment Manual" shall
govern all vertical curve computations, except when the algebraic difference of
the gradient is less than one percent (1%) a fifty foot (50') vertical curve
length shall be utilized. Desirable street gradients shall not be less than a
minimum of 0.50 percent (5/10 of 1 percent). In no case shall the street
gradient be less than 0.40 percent.
      5.   Curb And Gutter:
         a.   Curb and gutter shall be type B-6.18 (B15.45) in accordance with
the "Illinois Department Of Transportation Highway Standards" and installed in
accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
         b.   All curb and gutter shall be designed so as to facilitate persons
using wheelchairs to travel freely and without assistance by providing at each
crosswalk a ramp with nonslip surface so that the sidewalk and street blend to
a common level. Such ramp shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the "highway standards".
      6.   Trench Backfill: Any excavation in an existing or proposed street
shall be backfilled with select granular, backfill or controlled low strength
material.
   E.   Specifications And Special Provisions: All streets and curb and gutter
shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable sections of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" for the Illinois
department of transportation, the current edition as then modified,
supplemented and amended by this section or the city engineer. These
modifications, amendments and amplifications have been provided in this
section.
      1.   Street Special Provisions: Curb marking of water and sewer services:
At the time the curb and gutter is poured, the contractor shall mark the top of
the curb with an "S" or "W" for sewer and water services respectively.
      2.   Adjustment Of Frame And Grate: Final grade for all manhole castings
will be determined after the curb and gutter has been poured and the subgrade
and/or base has been constructed. Final adjustment of the frame and grate shall
be made in the following manner: After the curb and gutter has been poured and
the base constructed the final elevation will be determined by the city
engineer.
The frame and grate will be adjusted to this elevation in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". Any material
disturbed while adjusting the frame and grate will be disposed of and all fill
made with lean concrete. A maximum of eight inches (8") of adjusting rings
shall be allowed.
      3.   Coarse Aggregate: Course aggregate shall comply with IDOT
specifications.
      4.   Combination Concrete Curb And Gutter: Concrete curb and gutter shall
be sawed or scored at intervals coinciding with the joint intervals of the
adjoining pavement. The minimum joint depth for the gutter shall be two inches
(2"), and one inch (1") for the curb. The curb and gutter may be jointed
instead of sawed provided the stated joint depths are obtained. If the curb and
gutter is adjacent to bituminous pavement it shall be jointed at fifteen foot
(15') intervals.
The sawing of the curb and gutter shall commence within four (4) hours of the
start of the pour unless otherwise directed by the city engineer. Sawing shall
continue until all joints are completed.
Asphaltic type expansion joints one inch (1") thick shall be placed at all PCs,
PTs and RPCs and at maximum five hundred foot (500') intervals.
      5.   Test Rolling Of Subgrade And Base Course: The contractor will
provide at his own expense a loaded truck and test roll the compacted earth
subgrade in the presence of the engineer or his designee before any subbase,
base, or surface is placed. The truck shall be loaded as follows: Twenty seven
thousand (27,000) pounds on two (2) axles and forty five thousand (45,000)
pounds on three (3) axles, plus or minus ten percent (±10%).
The truck shall make one pass over the entire length of each traffic lane to be
constructed. Areas which show ruffing, cracking or rolling will not be
accepted. The contractor will recompact and/or reconstruct the sections that
fail and test role again for acceptance.
When bituminous or concrete surface courses are to be placed over an aggregate
base, the base shall be test rolled prior to placement of the surface course.
      6.   Portland Cement Concrete Pavement: Sawed transverse joints shall be
not greater than fifteen feet (15') apart and shall conform with the details in
the plans. All equipment and labor required to perform the necessary jointing
operation shall be available to begin sawing no later than four (4) hours after
the paving operation begins, unless excess raveling occurs. The contractor
shall provide the necessary equipment and labor needed to complete the sawing
at the same rate per longitudinal foot as the paving operation.
The contractor shall stop the paving operation at four thirty o'clock (4:30)
P.M., unless approved otherwise by the city engineer. Sawing shall continue at
the same rate as stated above until the sawing is complete or the pavement has
set.
Trucks and mixer trucks will be allowed to operate on the subgrade; however,
should the subgrade show any signs of distress, all operations will cease until
these items are corrected to the satisfaction of the engineer. Curb and gutter
is to be formed in a separate operation from the pavement. Monolithic curb will
not be permitted.
Final finish shall be type B, as described in the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", artificial turf drag.
      7.   Portland Cement Concrete Driveway Pavement: Pavement shall be a
minimum of six inches (6") in depth. Sawed transverse and longitudinal joints
shall conform to the following table:
Driveway Width At Widest Point Number Of Longitudinal Saw Cuts
Driveway Width At Widest Point Number Of Longitudinal Saw Cuts
   0 feet – 12 feet       0
   12 feet – 24 feet      1
   24 feet – 36 feet      2
Maximum Driveway Length        Number Of Transverse Saw Cuts
   0 feet – 12 feet       0
   12 feet – 24 feet      1
   24 feet – 36 feet      2
 
The sawed joints shall be spaced evenly throughout the driveway. The joints
shall be one-eighth inch (1/8") wide with a minimum depth of one-fourth (1/4)
the depth of the pavement and sealed with the same material and in the same
manner as Portland cement concrete pavement.
Three-fourth inch (3/4") thick expansion joints shall be placed between
driveway pavement and sidewalks and between driveway pavement and curb and
gutter.
   F.   Standard Details: See diagrams on file with the city clerk.
 
Standard   Title          
Drawing
A         Typical pavement section - minor street
B         Standard joint details
C         Barrier curb and gutter detail
D         Typical intersection joint detail
E         Typical cul-de-sac joint detail
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-22: SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIANWAYS AND TRAILS:
   A.   Introduction: Sidewalks shall be installed in all subdivisions
regardless of size, unless a waiver is granted from the city council at the
time of submission of a preliminary plan. Sidewalks and pedestrianways and
trails shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements
set forth in this section.
Trails shall be installed in subdivisions in locations and alignments according
to the city's comprehensive plan and may be installed in additional locations
which complement the trail system.
   B.   Design Standards: Subdivisions shall be designed so that sidewalks or
pedestrianways are provided in such locations and in such a manner as to do and
accomplish the following:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be not less than four feet (4') in width; except in
the C-2, central business district, where sidewalks shall not be less than six
feet (6') in width. Where sidewalk exceeds two hundred feet (200') in length
without interruption of drive, etc., then a minimum width of five feet (5')
wide sidewalk is required.
      2.   In all zoning districts, sidewalks shall be located within dedicated
street right of way and shall be roughly parallel to the street or roadway.
Sidewalks shall be located on both sides of all public streets.
      3.   Where the street design and parallel sidewalk arrangement does not
provide reasonably direct pedestrian access to and from school sites, park
sites, neighborhood commercial centers and other pedestrian traffic generators,
pedestrianways shall be provided in dedicated right of way so as to permit
reasonably direct pedestrian access to and from such sites.
      4.   All sidewalks shall conform to all current Americans with
disabilities act standards.
      5.   Trails shall be designed in accordance with current American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) standards.
Trail pavement widths shall be ten (10) to twelve feet (12').
      6.   Transverse slope on sidewalks, pedestrianways and trails should not
be less than two percent (2%) nor greater than four percent (4%).
   C.   Right Of Way Dedication:
      1.   All sidewalks shall be installed in dedicated public right of way or
public easements. Such dedication or easement shall extend not less than one
foot (1') on each side of the sidewalk or pedestrianway surface. The back of
the sidewalk shall be located six inches (6") off of the right of way line
unless otherwise directed by the city engineer.
      2.   All trails shall be installed in dedicated public right of way a
minimum of twenty five feet (25') in width.
   D.   Schedule Of Installation: The schedule for installation of walks shall
be set forth at the time of final platting. This schedule shall be approved by
the city engineer. The schedule shall be such that sidewalks are installed
adjacent to individual lots before occupancy is granted for the structure on
said lot and all sidewalk is installed within five (5) years of the date of
recorded final plat or the time ninety percent (90%) of the lots in the
subdivision have been granted occupancy, whichever is sooner.
   E.   Specifications And Special Provisions:
      1.   Specifications: All sidewalks and trails shall use materials and be
installed in a manner meeting or exceeding the requirements, standards and
specifications contained in the most recent edition of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois department of
transportation and all special provisions contained herein.
      2.   Special Provisions:
         a.   Sidewalk Thickness: All sidewalks shall be a minimum six inches
(6") in areas zoned commercial, business or manufacturing, and shall be a
minimum four inches (4") in all other areas.
         b.   Transverse Expansion Joints: Asphaltic transverse expansion
joints, one-half inch (1/2") thick, shall be placed in the sidewalk at
intervals not to exceed fifty feet (50'). No additional compensation will be
allowed for wire mesh and expansion joints.
         c.   PCC Sidewalk Special: Where existing ground surface adjacent to
back of sidewalk is six inches (6") or more above the elevation of the walk,
PCC sidewalk special shall be constructed in accordance with standard detail
5.06A on file with the city clerk.
         d.   Wheelchair Ramps: Wheelchair ramps shall be constructed in
accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
         e.   Trail Pavement Thickness: All trail pavement shall be a minimum
two inches (2") of bituminous asphalt surface course on six inches (6")
aggregate base course. Where appropriate and approved by the city, a six inch
(6") thick PC concrete pavement may be installed. When PC concrete pavement is
used, all contraction joints shall be sawed in accordance with detail.
   F.   Standard Details: See diagram on file with the city clerk.
 
Standard Drawing   Title
A                 PC concrete sidewalk special
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-23: STORM SEWERS, DRAINAGEWAYS, SUMP PUMP DISCHARGE LINES AND STORM WATER
DETENTION FACILITIES:
   A.   Introduction: All subdivisions, regardless of size, within the
corporate limits or under control of the city, shall include a storm water
drainage system designed in such a way as to do and accomplish the requirements
of this section. The design of all storm facilities proposed and funded by the
city shall also meet the requirements of this section.
Developers shall be allowed to tap into any existing portion of the city's
storm water drainage system if the requirements of this section have been or
will be met and meet the requirements for tap-on or hookup charges for
designated trunk line storm sewers.
   B.   Design Standards: All subdivisions shall include a storm water drainage
system designed in such a way to provide that all lots and outlots in the
subdivision will be graded and shaped so as to drain property within the
subdivision and such additional land as is in the natural drainageway by
gravity to catch basins, inlets, detention/retention facilities and
drainageways with adequate outlet.
      1.   Storm Sewers:
         a.   Laterals: In all new developments except those zoned R-1, the
developer will be required to provide a twelve inch (12") diameter storm sewer
lateral to a point on each lot; said point to be a point that will accommodate
the natural drainage of the lot served. The lateral shall be attached to the
primary sewer at a drainage structure.
            (1)   Design Formula: Unless otherwise approved by the city
engineer, formulas to be used in connection with the calculation of runoff
reasonably expected from the minimum design storm shall be the rational methods
for total contributing areas of twenty (20) acres or less and the soil
conservation service method as outlined in the technical release no. 55 for
areas greater than twenty (20) acres. Calculations are to be submitted
substantially in the form provided in exhibit P, on file with the city clerk.
            (2)   Minimum Design Storm: The minimum design storm used in
calculating runoff in the design formula will be the average rainfall intensity
associated with an average recurrence interval of five (5) years for the storm
period calculated by the time of concentration as outlined by the latest
technical letters of the Illinois state water survey for rainfall frequencies.
The corresponding charts and tables have been provided in exhibit P, on file
with the city clerk, for time of concentration, runoff factors and coefficients
and frequency intensities for use in either method for runoff estimation.
            (3)   Match 0.90 point of diameter when changing from one size to
another where feasible.
         b.   Inlet And Catch Basins Connections: The storm water drainage
system shall connect all inlets and catch basins to a storm sewer, pipe or
conduit of sufficient size, grade and capacity to carry the runoff reasonably
expected from the minimum design storm on the area in the natural drainage area
if that area is improved with the type of improvements permitted and to a
maximum density authorized by the then existing zoning ordinances of the city
for property within the corporate limits and the land use element of the city's
comprehensive plan for property outside the corporate limits provided, however,
no storm sewer shall be less than twelve inches (12") in diameter.
         c.   Storm Sewer Connections: The storm water drainage system shall
connect all storm sewers to other storm sewers or improved drainageways of
sufficient size, grade, and capacity to carry the runoff reasonably expected
from the minimum design storm on the area in the natural drainage area if that
area was improved with the type of improvements permitted and to the maximum
density authorized by the then existing zoning ordinances of the city for
property within the corporate limits and the land use element of the city's
comprehensive plan for property outside the corporate limits.
         d.   Manholes:
            (1)   Public manholes shall be installed at the end of each storm
sewer line, at all changes in grade or alignment, at all intersections and at
distances not greater than four hundred feet (400') between manholes for sewers
of fifteen inches (15") or less and five hundred feet (500') for sewers
eighteen (18) to thirty inches (30"). Greater spacing will be permitted by the
city engineer in larger sewers.
            (2)   Public manholes in improved streets or other hard surfaced
public rights of way accessible to vehicular traffic, shall be not more than
eight hundred feet (800') apart.
            (3)   Minimum drop in a manhole shall be 0.10 foot and the desired
maximum drop in a manhole shall be twenty four inches (24").
            (4)   Manholes shall be constructed in accordance with standard
detail 6.07A or B, on file with the city clerk.
         e.   Inlets:
            (1)   Inlets for local streets shall be provided for all low points
and the maximum spacing shall not exceed four hundred feet (400'), except that
the first inlet shall be spaced approximately four hundred feet (400') from the
high point or at no greater distance than six hundred feet (600') when approved
by the city engineer. Inlet spacing for all other streets must meet Illinois
department of transportation design and environment manual criteria.
            (2)   Inlets shall be designed in accordance with standard drawing
6.07C or D, on file with the city clerk.
         f.   Drainageways: Drainageways shall have a flat bottom, maximum
three to one (3:1) side slopes, the top of the bank shall be constructed one
foot (1') above computed water surface elevation for the minimum design storm,
and have a ten foot (10') maintenance/access lane on each side of the
drainageway.
      2.   Retention And Detention Facilities:
         a.   Outlet, Retention Or Detention Facilities Required: No
development shall be authorized in the city unless there is an adequate outlet
or the city has approved retention or detention facilities. The applicant shall
show by his detailed calculations that the outlet is adequate, and the
calculations must be acceptable to the city. In the event the city determines
the outlet is not adequate, the developer shall construct retention or
detention facilities. Such facilities shall be designed based on the design
formula.
            (1)   Design Formula: Unless otherwise approved by the city
engineer, formulas to be used in connection with the calculation of runoff
volumes and allowable release rates reasonably expected from the minimum design
storm shall be the rational method as outlined on the latest Illinois
department of transportation drainage manual for total contributing areas of
twenty (20) acres or less and the soil conservation hydrograph method for areas
greater than twenty (20) acres. The corresponding instructions, charts, tables
and forms have been provided in exhibit P, on file with the city clerk, for use
in either method of calculation.
            (2)   Minimum Design Storm:
               (A)   Storage volume when using the soil conservation hydrograph
method: Will be determined from inflow hydrographs generated by the design
formula using a minimum design storm with a range of rainfall intensities
associated with an average recurrence interval of one hundred (100) years and
an assumed coefficient for the particular post development zoning district as
set forth in exhibit P, on file with the city clerk.
               (B)   Storage volume when using the rational method: Will be the
volume generated by the difference between average runoffs of 100-year rainfall
frequency in post development condition and 3-year rainfall frequency in
predevelopment condition, assuming such difference occurs for one hour. The
average discharge being half of the peak discharge calculated by the rational
method.
               (C)   Allowable release rate: Will be determined by the design
formula using a minimum design storm with an average rainfall intensity
associated with an average recurrence interval of three (3) years for the storm
period calculated by the time of concentration as outlined by the latest
technical letters of the Illinois state water survey for rainfall frequencies.
Runoff coefficients or CN numbers shall reflect predeveloped conditions of the
watershed.
         b.   Bank Stabilization:
            (1)   Retention facilities shall be provided with wave shelves
along the entire perimeter in accordance with the standards in this section.
            (2)   Retention/detention facilities shall have a maximum four to
one (4:1) slope.
            (3)   Shoreline surfaces subject to wave shall be stabilized with
structural materials such as riprap, cement blocks or matting, retaining or
slope walls, etc.
         c.   Under Drains: Detention facilities to be dedicated to the public
for ownership and maintenance by the city shall include a system of under
drains to ensure a dry bottom.
            (1)   Pipe Materials: Under drains shall be constructed of rigid
perforated PVC pipe, SDR 35 or stronger.
            (2)   Fabric Envelope: Under drain pipe shall be encased in an
envelope of fabric weighing not less than 3.5 ounces per square yard meeting
the requirements for geotechnical fabric for French drains as specified in the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
            (3)   Pipe Size: Minimum six inch (6").
            (4)   Clean Outs: At ends of runs, junctions, and maximum every
three hundred feet (300') as per standard drawing 6.07K, on file with the city
clerk.
            (5)   Tracer Wire: All under drains shall be buried with a tracer
wire. Tracer wire shall be #12 THWN single conductor solid copper cable. Tracer
wires shall be terminated at clean outs as shown in standard drawing 6.07K, on
file with the city clerk.
         d.   Earthen Dams: When dedicated to the public for ownership and
maintenance by the city, earthen dams shall meet the following criteria:
            (1)   Side slope: Four to one (4:1) or flatter.
            (2)   Minimum ten foot (10') wide flat crest for access by
maintenance equipment.
            (3)   All earthen dams shall be constructed with a minimum of one
foot (1') of freeboard over the maximum anticipated water level in the
emergency spillway.
            (4)   All earthen dams shall include an impervious compacted clay
core. The core shall be of sufficient width to allow for mechanical compaction
and of sufficient depth to penetrate the overburden of topsoil, keying into the
underlying strata of virgin clay.
            (5)   The developer shall be responsible for obtaining all
construction permits required by governmental agencies.
         e.   Emergency Spillway: All detention and retention facilities,
whether publicly or privately owned and maintained shall include an emergency
spillway.
            (1)   Construction: Emergency spillways shall, wherever feasible,
be constructed in virgin ground.
            (2)   Erosion Protection: Emergency spillways shall be protected
from erosion with approved surface paving or vertical cutoff walls appropriate
for the impoundment and the height of the spillway crest.
            (3)   Capacity: Emergency spillways shall be of a size no less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the maximum peak inflow into the basin.
      3.   Adequate Outfall: Adequate outfall shall be provided. If the outlet
is not adequate, then retention or detention shall be provided. The applicant
should show by his detailed calculations that the outlet is adequate based on
the design formula and the calculations are acceptable by the city.
         a.   Design Formula: Unless otherwise approved by the city engineer,
formulas to be used in connection with the calculation of runoff reasonably
expected from the minimum design storm shall be the rational method for total
contributing areas of twenty (20) acres or less and the soil conservation
service method as outlined in the technical release no. 55 for areas greater
than twenty (20) acres.
         b.   Minimum Design Storm: Used in calculating runoff in the design
formula will be the average rainfall intensity associated with an average
recurrence interval of twenty five (25) years for waterways and five (5) years
for storm sewer for the storm period calculated by the time of concentration as
outlined by the latest technical letters of the Illinois state water survey for
rainfall frequencies.
      4.   Sump Pump Discharge:
         a.   New Developments: In all new developments zoned R-1, the
developer will be required to provide a minimum two inch (2") diameter sump
pump discharge lateral to a point on each lot; said point to be a point that
will accommodate the subsurface discharge from around the foundation of the
building served. The lateral shall be attached to the primary sump pump
discharge conduit by the installation of a tee or wye connection.
         b.   Lateral Connection: The primary sump pump discharge system shall
connect all laterals to a storm sewer, pipe or conduit of sufficient size,
grade and capacity to carry the discharge reasonably expected from the area
improved with the maximum density authorized by the then existing zoning
ordinances of the city. No primary sump pump discharge conduit shall be less
than six inches (6") in diameter or greater than ten inches (10") in diameter,
the design method of storm sewers shall govern.
         c.   Conduit Connection: The primary sump pump discharge system shall
connect all conduit to other storm sewers, inlets or catch basins, manholes or
improved drainageways of sufficient size, grade and capacity to carry the
discharge reasonably expected in addition to the surface runoff expected from
the minimum design storm of the design of storm sewers and drainageways as
described in this section.
         d.   Cleanouts: Cleanouts shall be installed at the end of each
primary sump pump discharge line, at all changes in grade or alignment, and at
distances not greater than two hundred feet (200') between cleanouts or between
cleanouts and manholes or inlets. Inlets or manholes may be substituted for
cleanouts located within the public right of way.
         e.   Location Of Installation: No sump pump discharge lateral or
primary conduit shall be installed beneath a public street pavement. The city
will not accept for maintenance any primary sump pump discharge line located
along rear or side lot lines.
         f.   Materials: All sump pump discharge conduits not constructed of
metallic material shall be installed with tracer location wire. Tracer wire
shall be #12 THWN single conductor solid copper cable. Tracer wire shall be
terminated at cleanouts as shown in standard drawing 6.07J, on file with the
city clerk.
   C.   Design Calculations Requirements: Calculations required to demonstrate
compliance with the design standards enumerated in the previous subsection of
this section shall be submitted substantially in the form and content as shown
and provided in exhibit P, on file with the city clerk. Calculations submitted
with preliminary plans are not required to be as great of detail as the
calculations required to be submitted with public improvement engineering plans
and specifications.
   D.   Right Of Way And Easement Dedications:
      1.   Drainageways: Shall be located in dedicated public rights of way.
Right of way for drainageways shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100')
wide. This minimum width shall be increased if the city engineer shall
determine that the drainageway's hydraulic capacity is inadequate to properly
serve its drainage function.
      2.   Storm sewers: Shall be located in public easements of dedicated
public rights of way. Such easements and rights of way shall be of sufficient
width and the storm sewer shall be installed at such locations therein as to
permit open cut installation, maintenance and repair within the confines of the
easement or right of way without relocation or other unreasonable interference
with other public utilities located therein and so as to meet the following
minimum standards:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') in width plus five feet (5') for each
additional utility for storm sewers; twenty four inches (24") in diameter and
ten feet (10') for water main or other sewers.
         b.   Two (2) additional feet in width for each twelve inches (12") or
portion thereof, of additional storm sewer diameter provided in excess of
twenty four inches (24").
         c.   Additional width may be required if storm sewers exceed fifteen
feet (15') in depth.
      3.   Sump pump discharge line: Shall be located in public easements or
dedicated public rights of way. Such easements and rights of way shall be of
sufficient width and the conduit shall be installed at such locations therein
as to permit open cut installation, maintenance and repair within the confines
of the easement or right of way without relocation or other unreasonable
interference with other public utilities located therein and so as to meet the
following minimum standards:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in width plus five feet (5') for each additional
utility for sump pump discharge line.
   E.   City's Participation In Cost:
      1.   Storm Sewers And Drainageways: Where it is necessary to construct
storm sewers and drainageways through land not being developed, the city may
pay a percentage of the cost of the storm sewer or drainageway, provided funds
are available, based on the percentage of the drainage area contributing to the
storm sewer or drainageway downstream from the development. The developer's
cost shall be based on the drainage area coming through and including his
development. The developer is required to pay tap-on fees for particular trunk
line storm sewers if available.
      2.   Detention/Retention Facilities: In all developments not already
served by an adequate existing or proposed storm water detention/retention
facility, the developer shall provide a storm water detention/retention
facility complying with this section.
Facilities shall be designed so that local storm sewer systems and drainageways
will discharge directly to proposed or existing detention/retention facilities,
or to an adequate trunk line storm sewer and flood route, or drainageway
feeding same, which discharges into a proposed or existing storm water
detention/retention facility. Where adequate storm sewer or drainageway
capacity is not available to convey design runoff to an existing downstream
detention/retention facility, an on site detention/retention facility shall be
required. Calculations demonstrating adequacy must be provided to the city.
      3.   Engineering Costs: The developer will be responsible for all
engineering costs for design of storm sewers, drainageways and detention/
retention facilities within his/her development.
   F.   Specifications And Special Provisions:
      1.   Storm sewers: Shall use materials and be installed in the manner
meeting or exceeding the requirements, standards, and specifications contained
in the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" in Illinois,
the current edition as then modified, supplemented and amended by this section
or the city engineer. These modifications, amendments and amplifications have
been provided in this section.
      2.   Drainageways and retention or detention facilities: Shall be
constructed in the manner meeting or exceeding the requirements, standards and
specifications contained in the applicable sections of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" for the Illinois department of
transportation, the current edition as then modified, supplemented and amended
by this title or the city engineer. These modifications, amendments and
amplifications have been provided in this section.
      3.   Sump pump discharge lines: Shall be constructed in the manner
meeting or exceeding the requirements, standards and specifications contained
in the applicable sections of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" in Illinois, the current edition as then modified, supplemented
and amended by this section or the city engineer. These modifications have been
provided in this section.
      4.   Materials:
         a.   Storm sewer: Materials shall be in accordance with section 550 of
all the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" and shall
conform to one of the following:
            (1)   Reinforced concrete arch culvert, storm drain and sewer pipe.
            (2)   Reinforced concrete culvert, storm drain and sewer pipe.
            (3)   Reinforced concrete elliptical culvert, storm drain and sewer
pipe.
            (4)   Ductile iron pipe class 150 conforming to ANSI/AWWA C-151/
A21.51, with single gasket joints meeting ANSI/AWWA C-104/A21.4 and with
bituminous coating as per section 51-8.1 of ANSI/AWWA C-151/A21.51.
         b.   Sump pump discharge lines not under pavements shall be
constructed of rigid PVC, SDR 35 or stronger, conforming to section 1040.10 of
the "Standards Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". Sump pump
discharge lines under pavements shall be constructed of the same materials as
storm sewers.
      5.   Special Provisions:
         a.   Storm Sewer Special Provisions:
            (1)   Adjustment Of Frame And Grate: Final grade for all manhole
castings will be determined after the curb and gutter has been poured and the
subgrade and/or base has been constructed. Final adjustment of the frame and
grate shall be made in the following manner: After the curb and gutter has been
poured and the base constructed the final elevation will be determined by the
city engineer.
The frame and grate will be adjusted to this elevation in accordance with the
standard specifications. Any material disturbed while adjusting the frame and
grate will be disposed of and all fill made with lean concrete. A maximum of
eight inches (8") of adjusting rings shall be allowed.
            (2)   Jetting Of Trenches: All sewer trenches under streets,
driveways or sidewalks shall be compacted by jetting or as directed by the city
engineer.
            (3)   Granular Cradle: A granular cradle will be required for all
sewers as shown in the standard details. Material for the granular cradle shall
comply with either type A or C gradations in accordance with section 550 of the
standard specifications.
            (4)   Trench Backfill: Material for trench backfill shall comply
with section 1003.04 of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction". All trenches under another sewer or water main, or under
existing streets, sidewalks, driveways and curb and gutter shall be backfilled
with trench backfill material in accordance with section 550.07 of the standard
specifications.
Material for trench backfill shall comply with article 1003.04 of the standard
specifications, except that the maximum size shall be three inches (3").
            (5)   Inlet Type A With Type 3 Frame And Grate: Section 612 of the
standard specifications shall govern the construction of inlets type A. They
shall be built in accordance with the standard details for inlets type A.
Section 614 of the standard specifications shall govern the construction of
frame and grate type 3. Frame and grate type 3 shall be equal to Neenah no. R-
3010. The curb box shall be of the open type and the grate shall be type A.
Only cast iron grates shall be used.
            (6)   Inlet Type H With Type 50 Frame And Grate: Section 612 shall
govern the construction of inlets type H. They shall be built in accordance
with the standard details for inlets type H. Section 614 shall govern the
construction of frame and grate type 50. Frame and grate type 50 shall be equal
to Neenah no. R-3067 and grate shall be type A. Only cast iron grates shall be
used.
         b.   Sump Pump Discharge Special Provisions:
            (1)   Sump Pump Discharge Pipes: Material for sump pump discharge
conduit shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sewer pipe conforming to ASTM D 3034,
type PSM for sizes four inches to ten inches (4" - 10"). Minimum standard
dimension ratio (SDR) acceptable shall be 35. Material for conduit exceeding
size diameter of ten inches (10") shall be the same as determined in this
section for storm sewers. Sump pump discharge cleanouts shall be constructed in
accordance with standard detail 607J, on file with the city clerk.
   G.   Standard Details: See diagrams on file with the city clerk.
Standard  Title         
Drawing
Standard   Title         
Drawing
A         Standard manhole details
B         Manhole details sewers 48 inch diameter and larger
C         Inlet type A details
D         Inlet types G and H details
E         Standard concrete collar and pipe bedding and excavation details
F         Water and sewer separation requirements (vertical)
G         Water and sewer separation requirements (vertical)
H         Water and sewer separation requirements (horizontal)
I         Slope wall detail
J         Sump pump discharge cleanout detail
K         Detention underdrain cleanout and junction
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-24: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Introduction: All subdivisions and developments, regardless of size
within the corporate limits or under the control of the city, shall include
provisions for the construction of sanitary sewage facilities designed and
constructed in accordance with this section.
   B.   General Requirements: All subdivisions shall be designed so the
proposed sanitary sewer system does and accomplishes the following:
      1.   Conforms to the city of Chenoa comprehensive plan;
      2.   Extends interceptor sanitary sewers through the proposed subdivision
to serve upstream properties in the natural drainage area;
      3.   Provides sanitary sewer services with separate service connections
terminating not less than two feet (2') inside the property or easement line of
each proposed lot of record;
      4.   Has adequate capacity to drain the portions of the subdivision
proposed to be served by the sewer and any property upstream thereof which
drains into or may drain into that sewer, based on the effluent discharge
reasonably expected from development of the type and to the maximum density
permitted by the then existing zoning ordinances of the city for property
within the corporate limits and the land use element of the city's
comprehensive plan for property outside the corporate limits;
      5.   Maintains separation from public water supply system;
      6.   Discourages the use of sewage pumping facilities;
      7.   Permits the use of private sewage disposal systems only in the
following situations:
         a.   Where public sanitary sewers are not within two hundred feet
(200') of an area included in the subdivision's preliminary plan, and
         b.   Where the subdivision contains no lots less than twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet in area, not more than two (2) lots of more than twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet but less than thirty thousand (30,000) square
feet and not more than five (5) lots with more than thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet but less than one acre, and
         c.   All requirements of the city's sewer code are complied with, and
         d.   A fifteen foot (15') permanent easement is dedicated for the
purpose of a future sanitary sewer;
      8.   Designed to prevent installation of sanitary sewers in rear yard
easements and permit only when necessary installation in side yard easements;
      9.   Meet requirement for pump stations if required.
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   Design Formula: Sanitary sewers shall be designed to provide
adequate capacity without surcharge, using Manning's formula.
   English
1.49
V = n Rh 2/3 S 1/2
V = Velocity of flow in feet per second
n = Roughness factor
R = Hydraulic radius (feet)
S = Slope of energy grade line for conduit running full (feet per foot)
For new smooth walled sewer pipe n=0.013
Sanitary sewers shall flow with a desired minimum velocity of 2.5 feet per second
with an absolute minimum velocity of 2 feet per second. Proposed sanitary sewage
flow shall be based on the population after full development of the area. For
undeveloped areas where the details of future development are not known, design
population will be estimated based on the zoning classification and expected use
conforming to the city of Chenoa comprehensive plan.
Flow Criteria: Sanitary sewers shall be sized to accept the following peak design
flows:
Domestic:   400 gallons per day per capita for lateral sewers. Average flow of
100 gallons per capita peaked by a factor per exhibit Q on file with city clerk
plus 300 gal/inch/dia/acre for infiltration
Commercial:   10,000 gallons/acre per day for lateral and industrial sewers.
7,000 gallons/acre per day for trunk sewers
 
      2.   Elevation Of Building Sewer: No basement, half basement or any other
portion of a building having a floor elevation beneath the ground surface over
the city sewer at the point of the connection may be connected to the city
sewer by gravity. In areas where the ground line over the city sewer is to be
altered, the proposed final ground election shall be used. The maximum depth to
the top of the building service sewer shall be three feet (3') below finished
grade at the point where it enters such building. In all buildings in which the
building drain is too low to provide gravity flow to the city sewer, all sewage
carried by such drain shall be lifted by approved mechanical means and
discharged into the building sewer. No water operated sewage ejector shall be
used. Any property owner or other interested person may appeal in writing to
the city for a variance and exception to the restriction imposed hereby and the
city council may grant a variance or exception upon a satisfactory showing by
the applicant that, due to circumstance unique to the affected property, the
use of a gravity flow connection to service a below grade sanitary facility
will not be likely to result in sewer backups as a result thereof. Appeals
filed hereunder shall be made in writing to the city council and forwarded by
him to the appropriate committee, or any other committee hereafter designated
for such purpose, for recommendation.
      3.   Materials: All sanitary sewer pipe shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
ASTM D3034 SDR 26; bell and spigot for elastomeric gasket joints, minimum cell
class 12454 B for sizes up to fifteen inch (15") diameter; joints per ASTM
D3212 and gaskets per ASTM F477. Pipe may also be ductile iron AWWA C-150, AWWA
C-151 with mechanical or push on joints per AWWA C-111; polyethylene film
encasement per AWWA C-105 and fittings per AWWA C-110 or C-153. Use of other
materials for sanitary sewers must be approved in writing by the city prior to
their installation.
      4.   Minimum Size: All public sanitary sewers shall be a minimum of eight
inches (8") in diameter. All service sewer lines shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") diameter.
      5.   Alignment: All sewers shall be laid straight in both horizontal and
vertical planes between manholes unless otherwise approved by the city
engineer.
      6.   Sewer Size Changes: When sanitary sewers of different diameters join
in a manhole, the invert elevations shall be adjusted to maintain a uniform
energy gradient. Alignment of the 0.9 depth point of the sewers shall be
implemented to meet this requirement.
      7.   High Velocity Protection: Where velocities greater than ten feet
(10') per second will occur, in a sanitary sewer when flowing full, special
provisions shall be taken to prevent scouring or displacement of the pipe.
      8.   Manholes:
         a.   Provide public manholes at the end of each line, at all changes
in grade, size or alignment, at all intersections and at distances not greater
than four hundred feet (400'). Greater spacing may be permitted by the city
engineer in large sewers and in those carrying a settled effluent.
         b.   Provide an outside drop pipe for sewers entering a manhole at an
elevation of twenty four inches (24") or more above the manhole invert. Where
the difference in elevation between the incoming sewer and the manhole invert
is less than twenty four inches (24"), the invert should be filleted to prevent
the depositing of solids. Drop manholes shall be constructed in accordance with
standard detail 7.07B-1, on file with the city clerk.
         c.   Provide public manholes in improved streets or other hard
surfaced public rights of way accessible to vehicular access, not more than
eight hundred feet (800') measured in a straight line along the sanitary sewer.
      9.   Service Drops In Manholes:
         a.   New Construction: Outside service drops shall be provided as per
standard detail 7.07B-1, on file with the city clerk, in new construction when
a proposed sanitary service enters a proposed manhole more than two feet (2')
above the invert of the manhole. With the permission of the city engineer, for
existing manholes an inside drop connection as per standard detail 7.07B-2, on
file with the city clerk, may be used.
   D.   Right Of Way Dedication: Generally, all sewers shall be installed in
public easements or dedicated public rights of way. Such easements and rights
of way are to be of sufficient width and the sewers to be installed at such
locations as to permit open cut installation, maintenance and repair within the
confines of the easement or right of way without relocation or other
unreasonable interference with other public utilities located therein and so as
to meet the following minimum standards:
      1.   Fifteen foot (15') width plus five feet (5') for each additional
utility and ten feet (10') for water main or other sewers.
      2.   Sewers exceeding fifteen feet (15') in depth, additional width may
be required.
   E.   Developer's Cost:
      1.   Oversize Sanitary Sewer Lines: The developer shall pay all costs to
oversize sanitary sewer lines to serve upstream properties with sizes to be
approved by the city engineer. The developer may attempt to negotiate with
upstream property owner(s) for cost participation.
      2.   Engineering Costs: The developer will be responsible for all
engineering costs for design of sanitary sewer facilities including pump
stations within his/her development.
   F.   Specifications And Special Provisions: All sanitary sewers shall be
installed in accordance with all applicable sections of the "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction" in Illinois, the current
edition as then modified, supplemented and amended by this section or the city
engineer. These modifications, amendments and amplifications have been provided
in this section.
      1.   Special Provisions For Sanitary Sewer:
         a.   Granular Cradle: A granular cradle (bedding and haunching) will
be required for all sanitary sewers as shown in the standard details and in
accordance with section 20-2.20B of the "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction".
         b.   Trench Backfill: All trenches under another sewer or water main,
or under or within two feet (2') of existing or proposed streets, existing
sidewalks and driveways shall be backfilled with select granular material in
accordance with section 308 or the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction". Material for trench backfill shall comply with article 1003.04
of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", except that
the following gradations may be used in addition to FA6: CA6, and CA10, and
except that the maximum size shall be three inches (3") and that no material
over one-half inch (1/2") and shall be used below one foot (1') over the top of
the sewer.
         c.   Compaction Of Trench Backfill: All sewer trenches under streets,
driveways or sidewalks shall be compacted by jetting, mechanical compaction, or
as directed by the city engineer.
         d.   Testing: The leakage test will be by the low pressure air method
and conducted by the developer. Level ground and provide forty eight (48)
hours' notice. All sanitary sewers shall be cleaned and televised by an
approved televising company, with a CD/DVD recording provided to the city. The
CD/DVD recording shall record a clear picture of the entire periphery of the
pipe and shall include recorded locations of all data and features seen on the
videotape. Televising shall occur just prior to final acceptance and/or
placement into service by the city.
         e.   Sewer Service Markings: The contractor shall place two by fours
(2 x 4's) extending from the bottom of the sewer service to two feet (2') above
the ground at the location where each sewer service terminates. These markers
shall be installed at the time the services are constructed and painted green.
         f.   Curb Marking Of Sewer Services: At the time the curb and gutter
is poured, the contractor shall mark the top of the curb with an "S" to mark
location of said sewer service.
         g.   Sewer Service Laterals: All services shall terminate at a point
at least two feet (2') inside the proposed property line or two feet (2')
beyond any easement where a city owned utility is located, unless otherwise
directed, and at a maximum depth of nine feet (9') below the proposed curb
grade unless otherwise approved by the city engineer. The change in elevation
on the services may be made by breaking the joints without breaking the seal or
the contractor may provide fittings to adjust for the change in grade. The last
length of pipe at the property line shall be laid at a uniform grade of 1.0
percent (separation between laterals shall be a minimum distance of 1 pipe
length).
         h.   Adjustment Of Manhole Casting: Final grade for all manhole
castings will be determined after the curb and gutter has been poured and the
subgrade and/or base has been constructed. Final adjustment of the frame and
grate shall be made in the following manner: After the curb and gutter has been
poured and the base constructed the final elevation will be determined by the
city engineer. The frame and grate will be adjusted to this elevation in
accordance with the standard specifications. Any material disturbed while
adjusting the frame and grate will be disposed of and all fill made with lean
concrete. A maximum of eighteen inches (18") of adjusting rings shall be
allowed. For manholes located in easements outside public right of way, the
frame and grate shall be adjusted two inches (2") above the final elevation as
determined on the approved lot grading plan.
Note: Special provisions modifying "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction" in Illinois.
30-3.01 E & F Ductile Iron Pipe
Add:
Inside of all pipes shall have standard cement mortar lining and the inside and
outside shall be tar (seal) coated.
31-1.11 A(1) Selection Of Test Sections
Delete paragraphs two, three and four and substitute the following: All
sections of the sewer shall be tested, except for those designated portions of
the sewer that are placed into service during the construction process.
32-2.07 Cast Iron Frames, Cover And Steps
Add the following:
Covers shall be Neenah, East Jordan or equal. Neenah numbers are given as
examples.
For Sanitary Manholes: Standard type 1 frame and lid - Neenah R-1772 B with
type "B" lid and NF-9204 pick hole. All lids for sanitary manholes shall be
self-sealing.
Steps shall be M.A. Industries PS1-PF manhole step or equal conforming to ASTM
C-478.
32-3.05 Precast Manholes
Add the following to paragraph 3:
No bitumastic material shall be used on the inside of manholes. Inside of all
joints shall be finished with non-shrink type grout and rubber gaskets.
32-3.09 Placing Castings
Change to read:
Castings placed on concrete or masonry surfaces shall be set in full mortar bed
or on approved solid bituminous gaskets.
32-3.09 A Streets At Grade
Change 12 inches (300 mm) to 8 inches (200 mm).
32-3.09 B Streets Or Alleys With No Established Grade
Change 12 inches (300 mm) to 8 inches (200 mm).
32-3.09 C Manholes Not Within Street Or Alley Areas
Change 18 inches (450 mm) to 24 inches (600 mm).
Change second paragraph to read:
Unless otherwise directed, the top of manhole castings shall be at grade of
existing surface.
32-3.11 Pipe Connections
Add the following sentence:
Bituminous material shall be used on the outside of the manhole only.
   G.   Standard Details: See diagrams on file with the city clerk.
Standard  Title      
Drawing
Standard   Title      
Drawing
A         Standard manhole details
B-1       Standard drop manhole details
B-2       Inside drop service connection
C         Typical house connections
D         Standard concrete collar and pipe bedding and excavation details
E         Water and sewer separation requirements (vertical)
F         Water and sewer separation requirements (vertical)
G         Water and sewer separation requirements (horizontal)
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-25: WATER DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPLY SYSTEM:
   A.   General Requirements: All developments shall be designed so that
proposed water distribution and supply system does and accomplishes the
following:
      1.   Conforms with the city of Chenoa comprehensive plan.
      2.   Extends water mains through the proposed development to serve
otherwise unserved abutting properties.
      3.   Provides adequate capacity as determined by the city and city
engineer to serve all the lots proposed to be served by the main, plus any
additional extensions to the main which might be made to develop property in
the same pressure zone with the type of uses and to the maximum density
permitted by the then existing zoning ordinances of the city with respect to
the property within the corporate limits and the land use element of the city's
comprehensive plan for proposals outside the corporate limits.
      4.   Permits private wells only in the following instances:
         a.   Outside the corporate limits; or
         b.   More than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet in the lot served;
and
         c.   In complete conformance with Illinois environmental protection
agency and McLean County health department standards.
         d.   If a public water supply is not reasonably available.
      5.   Maintains separation from public or private sewer or septic systems.
      6.   Loops water mains so as to avoid dead ends.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   Provide water service and an individual shutoff valve and box
located in the public right of way with a service line stub extended to a point
plus or minus two feet (±2') from the property line or easement line which,
upon recording of the final plat, will become a lot of record. A water service
connection of type "K" copper must be provided for and centered on each lot of
record in residential subdivisions is to be determined and installed only if a
specific use is known beforehand and in accordance with Illinois state plumbing
code.
      2.   Water mains shall be so designed so that looped water mains do not
reconnect to the same source main unless there is no alternative whereupon the
connections must be a minimum of five hundred feet (500') apart or have a valve
located between the two (2) connections.
      3.   Provide steamer type hydrants at each intersection of two (2) or
more streets or roadways, and provide additional hydrants so that hydrants are
spaced at intervals not exceeding: four hundred feet (400') in areas zoned
single-family and two-family residential, and not exceeding two hundred fifty
feet (250') in area otherwise zoned. For all zoning districts other than R-1,
all hydrants shall be steamer type. Where steamer hydrants are not practical or
hydrant spacing is excessive, the city engineer may recommend a variance to the
city council.
      4.   Hydrants located at other than street intersections are to be
positioned adjacent to the side yard lot line of two (2) adjoining properties
so as to achieve the nearest approximation of hydrant spacing interval required
for a specific zoning designation. If pipe joints or other utility conflicts
prevent locating at the nearest side yard lot line, proceed to the next nearest
lot line.
      5.   Hydrants are not to be located closer than ten feet (10') from any
light standard, tree, signpost or other permanent structure that would impede
access to the hydrant or reduce its visibility.
      6.   All in-line valves shall be installed at intervals not to exceed six
hundred feet (600').
      7.   Valves shall be placed at each branch connection and an in-line
valve shall be located near the branch upstream or downstream from each branch.
      8.   Provide water mains having an inside diameter with a minimum of six
inches (6") nominal pipe size. All pipe shall be ductile iron class 52 with
polyethylene encasement or PVC SDR-21 (ASTM D2241).
      9.   Water mains shall not be located closer than ten feet (10')
horizontally, or eighteen inches (18") vertically when crossing, any public or
private sanitary, storm sewer, drain or manhole.
      10.   If a subdivision is constructed in phase creating temporary dead
end water main, a valve and hydrant must be installed at each temporary
terminus.
      11.   Whenever water mains must cross watercourses, railroads or
interstate highways, a valve shall be provided at both ends of the crossing so
that the sections can be isolated for testing or repair.
      12.   There shall be no connection or potentially possible connection
between the public water supply system and any pipes, pumps, hydrants or tanks
from another system whereby unsafe water or other contaminating materials may
be discharged or drawn into the public water supply.
      13.   No water main shall be installed in rear yard easements.
   C.   Right Of Way And Easement Dedications: All water mains shall be
installed in public easements or dedicated public right of way. Such easements
and rights of way to be of sufficient width and the water mains to be installed
at such locations as to permit open cut installation, maintenance and repair
within the confines of the easement or right of way without relocation or
unreasonable interference with other public utilities located therein and so as
to meet the following minimum standards:
      1.   Have a minimum width of fifteen feet (15'), plus five feet (5') for
each additional utility, plus ten feet (10') if width abuts private property on
two (2) or more sides.
      2.   An additional ten feet (10') of width if a water main is to be
installed parallel to a sanitary sewer, so that the two (2) utilities will be
at least ten feet (10') apart.
   D.   City's Participation In Cost:
      1.   Water Mains: Where installation of water mains of larger capacity
than required to serve land owned by the developer is required by the city
council to serve future growth in the vicinity of the development, the
developer shall pay for only his/her portion, based on the code requirements
for his/her development, of the total cost of the installation; the balance to
be borne by the city. Provided funds are available, the city will pay the
difference in the cost between the size required for the developer's land
(minimum 6 inches) and the larger size required. If there is an existing tap-on
charge, then the developer shall abide by same.
      2.   Engineering Costs: The developer will be responsible for all
engineering costs for design of water main facilities within his/her
development.
   E.   Service Connection Fee Schedule: On file with the city.
   F.   Specification And Special Provisions: All water mains shall use
materials and be installed in such manner meeting or exceeding the required
standards and specifications contained in the "Standard Specifications For
Water And Sewer Main Construction" in Illinois, the then current edition as
then modified, supplemented and amended by this section or the city engineer.
These modifications, amendments and amplifications have been provided in this
section.
Note: Special provisions modifying "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction" in Illinois.
DIVISION IV WATER DISTRIBUTION
Applicable sections of this division also apply to force main construction.
40-2 Pipe Materials
Water mains shall be ductile iron pipe class 52 or PVC SDR-21 with single
gasket joints.
40-2.04 Ductile Iron Pipe
Add the following:
Cement lining, exterior tar (seal) coating and polyethylene encasement shall be
provided for all ductile iron pipe. All pipe shall have push-on type joint
unless otherwise called for.
40-2.06 A Cast Iron Or Ductile Iron Pipe Fitting
Add the following:
Cast iron or ductile iron fittings may be used.
Cement lining is required for fittings.
40-2.07 C Stops And Fittings
Corporation and curb stops shall be A. Y. McDonald MAC-PAC compression or
approved equal. Curb boxes shall be A. Y. McDonald or equal, 4'-5' (1.2-1.5m)
adjustment with stationary operating rod.
40-2.08 Specialty Valves
Tapping machine sleeves shall be Cascade/CS22, CS12 with waterous series 500
valves.
41-2.02 A Depth Of Pipe Cover
Minimum depth shall be four feet (1.2m).
41-2.02 B Pipe Foundations And Unsuitable Trench Conditions
Change first sentence to read:
For pipe beddings see sections 20-2.20 A (1)b.
41-2.12 A Pipe Conditions
Test pressure shall be not less than 100 psi.
41-2.12 C Leakage Test
   (1)   Change test pressure requirement to 100 psi.
41-3 Measurement
Cast Iron Fittings:
If proposal does not contain an item for fittings, the cost of furnishing and
installing fittings shall be included in the unit price bid for the various
mains.
45-2.02 Hydrant Details
In second paragraph - bury depth shall be five feet (1.5m).
In fourth paragraph - Hydrant with 6 inch (150mm) connections shall be
furnished with a 4" (100mm) pumper nozzle only if steamer hydrants are called
for on the plans.
Recurring Special Provisions For Water Main Improvements
Coordination Of Work
The contractor shall coordinate his/her operations with the city water & street
department. The chlorination, pressure testing and sampling of the new mains
shall be done with city of Chenoa water & street department supervision. All
costs to be included in the unit prices bid for the various pipe items.
Pipelaying
Ductile iron pipelaying is to be provided in accordance with the latest
revisions to AWWA C-600 standards. This takes precedence over any other
specifications.
Laying Operations
Contractor's attention is directed to the fact that he must not allow any
foreign material to enter the main such as tools, clothing, dirt, etc., while
the main is being constructed. At times when pipelaying is not in progress, the
open end of the pipe shall be closed by watertight plug. All trenches must be
pumped dry preceding any pipelaying operations.
Water & Sewer Crossing
In cases where a water main crosses a storm sewer or sanitary sewer and proper
separation cannot be provided, the contractor shall construct the sewer as
outlined in division IV, section 41-2.01C of the Standard Specifications For
Water And Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, current edition. Should the
contractor elect to encase the water main in lieu of constructing the sewer of
water main quality pipe, the water main may be encased with any approved water
main quality pipe. Before starting either of the above operations, the
contractor shall notify the city engineer and have the method approved.
Retainer Glands
Retainer glands shall be furnished for all valves, except in line valves, and
all bends on the main line greater than 11-1/4 (+ or -). Retainer glands shall
be Megalug. Internally restrained joint type water main may be used in lieu of
retainer glands.
Gate Valve And Box
Gate valves shall be waterous series 500. The valve box shall be A. Y. McDonald
with stay-put cover or approved equal.
Steamer Hydrants
The unit price bid for steamer hydrant shall include all labor, material and
equipment required to construct this item in accordance with the hydrant
connection - type as shown on the standard details in the plans, excluding the
valve and box. The unit price bid for 6" (150mm) valve and box shall be paid
for all valves on hydrant leads in addition to the unit price bid or steamer
hydrant connection of type specified.
Where steamer hydrants are called for, they shall have a 5-1/4 inch (133mm)
main valve of the compression type that closes with pressure. They shall have
an O-ring stuffing box and a 6-inch (150mm) Ringtite or equal joint opening.
The hydrant opens by turning counterclockwise. Each hydrant shall have two 2-1/
2 inch (63mm) hose nozzles, and one 4-inch (100mm) pumper nozzle. They shall
conform in all respects to the standard specifications of the American
Waterworks Association for Fire Hydrants. They shall be waterous pacer WB-67.
Setting Hydrants
Each hydrant shall stand plumb and shall rest on a precast solid concrete block
base. Under and around the drip of each hydrant shall be placed not less than
one-third cubic yard of broken stone not less than 1 inch (25 mm) in size. All
fittings and valves in connection with the fire hydrant shall be the anchored
type. No hydrant shall be placed closer than 2-1/2 feet (0.7m) from back of
curb or edge of pavement to the centerline of hydrant.
Hydrant Extension
The unit price bid for this item shall include all labor, material, and
equipment to adjust new hydrants in the vertical direction above the standard
5-foot (1.5m) bury hydrant. This pay item will only compensate for those
hydrants shown on the plans requiring extensions and those hydrants installed
at a lower depth as directed by the engineer in order to avoid conflicts with
existing utilities. All other hydrants requiring extensions after installation
not meeting these conditions shall be extended at the contractor's cost. This
work will be paid for by unit price bid per vertical foot for hydrant
extension. Extensions shall be made in 6-inch (150mm) increments to the height
required at each hydrant.
Setting Tees And Bends
All tees and bends shall be restrained to adjacent pipe in accordance with
recommendations of D.I.P.I.
Restrained Joints
All joints as recommended by D.I.P.I shall be restrained. All restrained joints
shall be Megalug.
Connections To Existing Mains
If the connection to an existing water main requires a shutdown of the existing
main, the contractor shall notify all users of the affected main a minimum of
48 hours ahead of the shutdown. The contractor shall re-chlorinate that portion
of the existing water main which is shutdown before it is put back into
service. The contractor shall provide the necessary blocking or restraining of
the existing main when he/she makes the new connection.
Leakage Test
When performing a hydrostatic pressure test, all water used must be potable and
contain a chlorine residual of not less than 0.2 parts per million of free
chlorine or 0.5 parts per million of combined chlorine. The hydrostatic
pressure test will be made in accordance with ANSI/AWWA C-600 latest edition.
The hydrostatic pressure shall be 100 psi (620 kpa) for at least one-hour
duration and not vary more than 5 psi (35 kpa). Before applying the specified
test pressure, the air shall be expelled from the pipe. The allowable leakage
shall be determined by the following formula:
 
L = SDP
-----------
133200
L = Allowable leakage in gallons per hour
S = Length of pipe in feet
D = Nominal diameter of pipe in inches
P = Average test pressure during test in psi's
 
All visible leaks are to be repaired regardless of the amount of leakage. After
the hydrostatic test has been successfully completed, the main shall be flushed
attaining the minimum velocity of at least 2-1/2 feet per second (0.75 mps).
Flushing must continue until all particulate matter and discoloration has been
removed.
Flushing Of New Mains
There will be no charge by the city of Chenoa to the contractor for the water
used to flush the mains, provided it is not necessary to flush the mains more
than one time. If it is necessary to flush the mains more than one time, then
the contractor will be charged by the city of Chenoa for water used to flush
the mains. The contractor shall provide and install any hose necessary to
direct the water being flushed away from any area it might damage. The
contractor shall take whatever precautions necessary during flushing to prevent
ecological damage to any receiving stream, lake or other body of water.
Sampling And Chlorinating Taps
At the extreme ends of the proposed new water main or at locations as directed
by the city engineer sampling and chlorinating taps shall be installed by the
contractor in accordance with the details as shown on the plans. After the
chlorinating, sampling and testing is approved by the city of Chenoa water
department, the corporation stop shall be shut off and the piping removed from
the corporation stop.
Disinfection Of Mains
Disinfection shall be in accordance with the Standard Specifications For Water
& Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
Bacteriological Testing
After disinfection, bacteriological testing must be done to insure the public
health of the main. All samples must be collected by a designated sample
collector of the city of Chenoa water department and tested at an IEPA approved
laboratory.
Water mains that fail the initial bacterial test shall be flushed again before
additional sampling is commenced. If the second sample also fails the bacterial
test, then disinfection shall be repeated and flushing prior to additional
sampling shall be required. If the third sample fails the bacterial test, then
the next step shall be determined by the water department and/or city engineer.
Trench Backfill
Approved compacted granular material shall be required in all trenches
extending two feet (0.6m) either side of all sidewalks, driveways and street
pavements.
Curb And Gutter Crossing
Contractor may remove and replace the curb and gutter at the street crossings
or he/she may tunnel the curb and gutter at his/her option. All excavated
material shall be disposed of off site and the trench backfilled with approved
compacted granular material.
Pavement Removal And Replacement
All street pavement removal and replacement shall be done in accordance with
section 2 of this manual.
Damage To Existing Structures
If damage is done to existing or new structures during construction of the
proposed improvement, they shall be replaced or repaired in a satisfactory
manner by the contractor at his/her own expense.
Utilities
The utility companies shall be notified of the impending project and the plans
shall indicate the general location of the utility main lines. The contractor
shall have the responsibility before any construction work has begun, of
obtaining from all utilities the exact location of any underground facilities
in the area of construction, whether indicated on the plans or not. Any
facilities disturbed by the contractor shall be restored by him/her at the
contractor's own expense. The contractor shall coordinate with the proper
utility the relocation of any facility designated on the plans or deemed
necessary to be relocated by the engineer in order to complete construction of
the project.
Residents shall be notified a minimum of 48 hours in advance of impending
service outages, and no residence shall be without service overnight.
   G.   Standard Details: See diagrams on file with the city clerk.
Standard
Drawing   Title                             
Number
Standard
Drawing    Title                             
Number
A         Hydrant installation
B         Hydrant connections
C         Typical concrete blocking detail
D         Typical water service
E         Sampling and chlorination service piping tap
F         Creek crossing detail
G         Anchorage of fittings/vertical plane
H         Water and sewer separation requirements/horizontal
I         Water and sewer separation requirements/vertical
J         Pavement patching detail
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-26: STREETLIGHTS:
   A.   Design Standards: All developments shall be designed so that
streetlights are provided in such locations and in such manner as to do and
accomplish the following:
      1.   Provide a streetlight at every cross or tee intersection and at the
end of every cul-de-sac or eyebrow.
      2.   Provide such additional streetlights as may be necessary so that
streetlights are not more than two hundred fifty feet (250') apart.
      3.   Provide the type of illumination as selected by the city engineer
meeting the following height and rumination standards:
         a.   Sodium Vapor: An eight thousand seven hundred (8,700) lumen
luminaire mounted at a twenty five foot (25') mounting height and shall only be
utilized on minor streets and frontage roads; a twenty three thousand (23,000)
lumen luminaire mounted at a thirty foot (30') mounting height and shall be
utilized on major and collector streets.
      4.   In areas zoned R-1, streetlights shall be affixed to ornamental
concrete or aluminum poles.
      5.   In areas zoned for business, commercial or manufacturing uses,
streetlights shall be affixed to ornamental concrete or aluminum poles.
      6.   In areas zoned R-1, all wiring shall be underground; in areas zoned
for business, commercial or manufacturing uses, underground wiring shall be
provided.
      7.   Private streetlights: All private streetlights in a residential
planned unit development shall meet city standards of illuminance.
   B.   Right Of Way And Easement Dedications: All streetlights shall be
installed in public easements or dedicated public right of way. Such easements
and rights of way shall be of sufficient width and the streetlights and
required wiring shall be installed in such locations therein that will not
reasonably interfere with other public utilities. Easements or rights of way
shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10').
   C.   Specifications And Special Provisions: Design and installation shall
meet or exceed all applicable city of Chenoa, Illinois commerce commission, or
accepted industry standards, whichever imposes the more demanding requirement
for the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and welfare.
   D.   Standard Details: See diagrams on file with the city clerk.
 
Standard Drawing Number   Title           
A                        Typical luminaire installation
B                        Cable trenching details
 
(Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-27: BRIDGES AND CULVERTS:
   A.   Introduction: Where streets or roadways in or adjacent to property in a
subdivision cross drainageways, streams or creeks, or where bridges or culverts
are otherwise proposed within the confines of a subdivision, or on the roadway
adjacent thereto, they shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
this section.
   B.   Right Of Way Dedication: Bridges and culverts shall be located in
dedicated public right of way of sufficient width to permit the construction,
operations, maintenance and replacement of the improvement within the confines
of the dedicated right of way without relocation or other unreasonable
interference with other public utilities located therein.
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   Bridges and culverts shall be of width comparable to the abutting
street or roadway including sidewalks and trails.
      2.   In the case of culverts or bridges over waterways, such crossing
shall be of sufficient size to permit the volume of water reasonably expected
from a 30-year frequency storm event on the area in the natural drainage area
flowing into the stream if that area were developed to the types of uses and to
the maximum density permitted by the then existing city zoning ordinance with
respect to property within the corporate limits of the city and the land use
element of the city's comprehensive plan for the areas outside the corporate
limits.
      3.   Bridges and culverts shall meet or exceed all applicable city,
Illinois department of transportation, Illinois department of natural
resources, other local, state or federal regulatory authority and accepted
industry standards, whichever impose the most demanding requirements with
respect to the preservation and protection of the public health, safety and
welfare. Should the city desire any of these improvements expanded or enlarged
to meet anticipated growth, then the city shall pay for the increment due to
the expansion provided funds are available.
   D.   City's Participation In Cost:
      1.   Bridges And Culverts: Where installation of a bridge or culvert of a
larger capacity or width than required to serve land owned by the developer is
required by the city council to serve future growth in the vicinity of the
development, the developer shall pay for only his/her portion of the total cost
of construction with the balance to be paid by the city, provided funds are
available.
      2.   Engineering Costs: The developer will be responsible for all
engineering costs for design of bridges and culverts within his/her
development.
   E.   Specifications And Special Provisions: All bridges and culverts shall
be constructed in accordance with all applicable sections of the Illinois
department of transportation "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", the current edition as then modified, supplemented and amended
by this section or the city engineer. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-28: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   Introduction: Where streets or roadways in or adjacent to property in a
subdivision cross a railroad line, or where a railroad line is otherwise
proposed within the confines of a subdivision, or on the roadway adjacent
thereto, it shall be designed and constructed in accordance with this section.
   B.   Right Of Way Dedication: Railroad crossings shall be located in
dedicated public right of way of sufficient width to permit the construction,
operations, maintenance and replacement of the improvement within the confines
of the dedicated right of way without relocation or other unreasonable
interference with other public utilities located therein.
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   Railroad crossings shall be of width comparable to the abutting
street or roadway including sidewalks and trails.
      2.   Railroad crossings shall meet or exceed all applicable city,
Illinois department of transportation, Illinois commerce commission, other
local, state or federal regulatory authority and accepted industry standards,
whichever impose the most demanding requirements with respect to the
preservation and protection of the public health, safety and welfare. Should
the city desire any of these improvements expanded or enlarged to meet
anticipated growth, then the city shall pay for the increment due to the
expansion, provided funds are available. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-29: OTHER PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Introduction: All public and quasi-public utilities, including, without
limitation, gas lines, electrical lines, telephone lines and cable TV
transmission lines shall be located underground.
   B.   Easement And Right Of Way Dedication: Except for individual building or
property services, utility lines shall be located in public easements or
dedicated public right of way. Such easements or rights of way shall be of
sufficient width and the utilities shall be installed at such locations therein
as to permit open cut installation, maintenance and repair within the confines
of the easement or right of way without relocation or other unreasonable
interference with other public or quasi-public utilities located therein,
provided that no permanent structures shall be placed over the easements or
rights of way dedicated to the city. Fences and vegetative material may be
placed on easements, but if it becomes necessary to repair or inspect the
underlying utility, the fence or vegetative material may be removed, damaged or
destroyed at the expense of the property owner. Under no circumstances will the
city be responsible for the repair or replacement of anything placed upon an
easement. The city staff will make every possible effort to notify property
owners that items placed upon an easement need to be relocated or removed, with
one notable exception, that is for emergency repairs.
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   Front yard electrical transformers shall not be located aboveground
in front yard easements or dedicated rights of way.
      2.   Side yard electrical transformers may be located aboveground when
the transformer is located behind the building setback line.
      3.   Easements or rights of way shall have a minimum width of ten feet
(10') plus five feet (5') for each additional utility to be provided.
   D.   Specifications And Special Provisions: All utility installation shall
conform with the applicable city, Illinois commerce commission, regulatory
authority or accepted industrial standards, whichever imposes the highest and
most demanding requirements for the preservation and protection of the public
health, safety and welfare. All gas, electric, phone, and cable TV lines shall
be located five feet (5') away from water mains and sewers lines and five feet
(5') away from water and sewer services. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-30: SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL:
   A.   Introduction: The intent of this section is to require erosion control
and storm water practices that will reduce the amount of sediment and other
pollutants leaving development sites, both during and after construction and
reduce the impact of development on erosion in receiving streams. It is also
the intent of this section to promote design and construction practices that:
1) minimize ground disturbances during development; 2) maintain natural
drainage; and 3) provide storm water storage. Erosion, sediment, and storm
water control measures are needed for the following reasons:
      1.   High rates of soil loss may occur from areas undergoing development
for nonagricultural use including, but not limited to, the construction of
dwelling units, commercial buildings, industrial plans, and public works.
      2.   The washing, blowing and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles.
      3.   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repair of gullies, washouts,
embankments, drainage structures, and stream banks.
      4.   Sediment from soil erosion can clog or reduce the flow and storage
capacity of sewers, ponds, ditches, and streams.
      5.   Sediment and associated pollutants can pollute the waters of
streams, ponds, lakes, and rivers, creating far reaching biological impacts to
aquatic life and species dependent upon aquatic life.
      6.   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for beneficial uses,
including water supply, navigation, recreation, fishery resources, drainage,
and flood control.
      7.   Development, if not controlled, causes increases in peak storm water
runoff rates which can lead to increased stream bed and stream bank erosion and
flooding in receiving streams.
      8.   Erosion and stream bank instability caused by altered stream flow
rates due to development can create unsafe conditions, adverse environmental
impacts, and other conditions that require costly repairs or preventative
measures to protect private and public structures and facilities.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   No land surface shall be disturbed unless an erosion control plan
has first been submitted and approved for that activity, except as follows:
         a.   Land disturbing activities for which the disturbed area is less
than five thousand (5,000) square feet; or
         b.   Current agricultural practices involving land tilling.
         c.   Construction of one, single-family dwelling which is not
constructed as part of a residential subdivision shall be subject to the
provisions of this section regarding storm water control measures.
      2.   The city engineer reserves the right to require any nonagricultural
construction activity, regardless of land disturbance area or type of activity,
to comply with this title if it is determined to be the cause of, or a
contributor to, an existing or potential adverse erosion, sediment, or storm
water impact.
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   The EPA's NPDES phase II rules apply, including completing and
submitting a notice of intent (NOI), developing and implementing a storm water
pollution prevention plan, completing final stabilization of the construction
site, and completing and submitting a notice of termination (NOT).
      2.   All temporary sediment control measures shall be designed to control
sediment from leaving the development site for a 5-year frequency storm event.
      3.   Design standards for erosion and sediment control measure shall
comply with provisions of the Illinois "Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil
Erosion And Sediment Control", published by the Urban Committee of the
Association of Illinois Soil and Water Conservation Districts, latest edition,
unless otherwise stated by this section.
   D.   Temporary Storm Water Control Measures: On site sediment control
measures shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating clearing,
grading, stripping, excavation or fill activities on the site.
Sediment control measures and temporary storm water control measures are to be
maintained so they are operating effectively until permanent ground surface
protection and permanent storm water control measures are established.
The city engineer may require additional control measures as necessary after
site inspection if sedimentation controls are not functioning properly.
   E.   Temporary Ground Surface: All lots not built within twenty one (21)
days of ground disturbance shall have ground surface seeded within seven (7)
days.
   F.   Permanent Ground Surface: Within seven (7) days after completion of
construction and soil conditions are suitable, and before final inspection, the
site must have permanent ground surface cover planted or installed. Public
improvements will not be accepted until all public right of way and easements
have permanent ground surface cover. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
11-6-31: RECREATIONAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Introduction: The purpose of this section is to establish criteria and
guidelines for the development of neighborhood parks within future
developments. This section is designed to assist developers, planners, and
engineers in the location, shape, access, linkage, grading and seeding of park
lands to be dedicated for park purposes.
   B.   Neighborhood Park Standards:
      1.   Size: The size of a neighborhood park site shall be appropriate to
the leisure and recreational needs of the service population and shall be
consistent with required donations. The following illustrates the amount of
land area generally required for a neighborhood park:
Neighborhood park: Minimum seven (7) acres.
      2.   Shape: Generally park sites should be rectangular or nearly
rectangular in shape.
      3.   Location: Whenever possible, park sites should be located near the
geographic center of the service areas. In areas where park sites and/or school
sites already exist or have been previously planned, the proposed park donation
shall be located adjacent to or provide appropriate linkage with the existing
sites. The following plan shall be adhered to in determining the locations of
park sites:
"City of Chenoa comprehensive plan".
      4.   Access: Access to park sites shall be provided for convenient
pedestrian and vehicular ingress and egress as well as for visual identity. A
minimum of three hundred feet (300') of street frontage will be required,
measured along the curb. Any accessway shall be improved with a hard surfaced
walkway four feet (4') in width, constructed in accordance with this title. The
number of accesses will vary with the location and type of park site and its
relationship to surrounding land uses. Frontage along a major road may be
counted as an access point when sidewalks along that major road are present.
All access to park sites shall meet current American with disabilities act
(ADA) requirements.
      5.   Linkage: The linkage of proposed parks with existing parks or with
other desirable land uses (i.e., schools, convenience commercial areas,
cultural or institutional centers) shall be encouraged.
      6.   Grading: The proposed grading of a park site shall be suitable for
park purposes and shall not differ greatly from that of surrounding land uses.
Grades less than two percent (2%) or more than ten percent (10%) will not be
acceptable. Exceptions to this may be granted if the developer can show an
acceptable secondary use for the grading. Examples are earth berming for visual
buffer or aesthetic interest, a sled hill or toboggan run, backstop for special
activities, amphitheater, etc.
      7.   Vegetation: Land donated for park purposes shall be planned and
designed to minimize impact to vegetation of ecological or aesthetic value.
Existing vegetation of value shall be adequately identified and protected from
damage during the construction process. The city shall be given the right to
remove/salvage from an area proposed for clearing any desirable plant materials
for which the developer has no intended use.
      8.   Erosion Control: The developer will be responsible for controlling
erosion in accordance with this title on the park sites until final acceptance
of improvements by the city.
      9.   Retention/Detention (If Part Of A Recreational Facility):
         a.   Retention:
            (1)   Water Quality Criteria: Water quality criteria adopted by the
Illinois pollution control board will be used as the basis for evaluating the
quality of ponded water.
            (2)   Water Quality Maintenance: The developer shall provide plans
for aeration, chemical treatment, or other means to ensure water quality
standards are maintained.
            (3)   Pond Design:
               (A)   Slopes from bank: Top three feet (3') of normal pool and
the total depth of the required detention volume shall have a six to one (6:1)
slope; then a three to one (3:1) to bottom.
               (B)   In areas selected for the planting of aquatic and emerging
aquatic vegetation, slope requirements will change with cultural requirements
of vegetation type.
               (C)   Depth: Minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of normal
water level area is to be ten (10) to fifteen feet (15') in depth.
               (D)   Shape: Pond configuration shall be natural in appearance
featuring varying slopes running down to shoreline. Shoreline shall undulate at
varying degrees around the pond perimeter. Provisions in configuration of pond
shall allow for ease in dredging and other maintenance considerations.
               (E)   Size: No ponds shall be smaller than one acre.
               (F)   Bank stabilization: Protection against erosion and water
level fluctuations is required. Stabilization may be provided through the
following means:
                  (i)   Complete establishment of perennial ground cover with
water tolerant grasses.
                  (ii)   Construction of retaining walls.
                  (iii)   Use of riprap underlain by gravel placed in the zone
to be exposed during seasonal water fluctuations. Minimum zone to be covered is
three feet (3') above normal water level and six feet (6') below the normal
water level.
               (G)   Management:
                  (i)   Draw Down: Draw down facilities shall be provided to
allow for the complete drainage of the lake. Draw down capability is necessary
to facilitate fish management and lake cleaning.
                  (ii)   Sedimentation: Developer will provide engineering
plans estimating probable quantities of sediment coming off the watershed at
five (5) year intervals. Developer will then install sediment traps to handle
the aforementioned sediment. A cleaning/dredging plan shall be included. All
engineering and installation to be approved by the city of Chenoa.
Retention basin design shall comply with the storm water standards section of
this title.
         b.   Detention: Detention basin design shall comply with the storm
water section of this title. The major consideration in the design of a
detention basin being proposed for recreational use is its suitability for dual
use of land detention and recreation. In order to facilitate review of park
areas, the proposed outline of the detention at the approximate high water line
shall be illustrated on the preliminary plan. City maintained detention basins
shall have pipe under drains in accordance with the storm water section of this
title.
         c.   Park Site Credit: For retention and detention basins, the extent
to which the design standards are adhered to will be the basis by which the
amount of park land credit will be determined. A reduced amount of park land
credit may be granted should a proposed park site be deficient in one or more
of the above cited park design standards.
   C.   Improvement Standards And Specifications: The park site shall be
improved according to the following standards and specifications (park sites
shall be final platted park sites):
      1.   Utilities: The park site shall be fully improved with water,
wastewater disposal, storm sewer, and electric service. At the time of
installation of public improvements in the subdivision or planned unit
development, the developer shall install the above mentioned utilities for the
park site in accordance with the city approved engineering plans. This work
shall be completed prior to the issuance of the first occupancy permit in the
subdivision or planned unit development which includes said park site. If the
park site has an auxiliary function as a storm water control facility, then the
drainage structures shall be installed during rough grading at the beginning of
construction activities.
      2.   Grading: The park site should be rough graded in a similar manner as
adjacent lots. Rough grading should take place at the time of rough grading of
adjacent lots for the purpose of building construction, and be completed before
occupancy permits are issued within the subdivision or planned unit
development. Grading shall be done in accordance with the grading plans
prepared in compliance with this section, and approved by the city. Grading
shall include the preparation of the subsoil so that it is graded and uniformly
compacted so it will be parallel to the proposed finished grade. The subgrade
material shall be loosened and fine graded to a depth of two (2) to four inches
(4"), and all stones over four inches (4") in size, sticks, rubbish and other
foreign substances shall be removed. All depressions which may cause future
drainage problems shall be filled with acceptable subgrade material. Positive
drainage must be ensured in the direction of swales, or as indicated on a
master drainage plan. Finished grades should be uniform of slope between points
for which elevations are given, or from such points to existing slopes.
Note: The long term storage of overburden on a park site is prohibited, though
temporary storage may be granted in some cases. Terms of such temporary storage
shall be determined by the city.
      3.   Topsoil: At the time topsoil is first placed in the subdivision or
planned unit development, it shall also be spread on the park site. Topsoil
shall be fertile, friable, natural topsoil typical of topsoil free of flooding.
It shall be without a mixture of subsoil or slag and shall be free of stones,
sticks, rubbish, and other extraneous matter, and shall not be delivered or
used while in a frozen or muddy condition. Topsoil shall not contain toxic
substances which may be harmful to humans or to plant growth. Topsoil shall be
spread evenly and lightly compacted to a minimum depth of six inches (6").
Humps or depressions shall be graded and rolled until satisfactory grade is
obtained. Completion of fine grading shall be within six (6) months of the
completion of rough grading.
      4.   Seeding: Seeding operations should occur during the spring (between
March 1 and May 15) or preferably, late summer (August 20 to September 30). The
seed mixture shall be a seventy percent (70%) mixture of Kentucky bluegrass,
twenty percent (20%) perennial rye grass (citation, Manhattan or Penfine) and
ten percent (10%) chewing fescue. All seeds shall be certified, ninety eight
percent (98%) purity/eighty percent (80%) germination. The seed bed shall be
fresh, VW new crop seed. The method of seeding may be varied at the discretion
of the developer as long as a smooth, uniform and stabilized turf is
established. The developer shall be required to maintain turf to full
establishment.
This work shall occur immediately after the placement of topsoil, fine grading
and installation of sidewalks.
   D.   Maintenance Standards: The park site shall be maintained by the
developer until the improvements as specified in this title have been formally
accepted by the city. Maintenance of the park site shall include:
      1.   The mowing of the site at least once a month during the spring,
summer and fall.
      2.   The removal of all rubbish and debris.
Until such time as a park site has been accepted by the city, the developer may
be held liable for any damages that may occur on such a park site. Upon formal
acceptance of the park site improvements by the city, the city will assume
maintenance of the park site. (Ord. 542, 11-26-2007)
 
