CREAL SPRINGS, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-05, passed 12-11-2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Creal Springs shall be designated
as the Revised Code of Ordinances of the City of Creal Springs and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of the city.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Creal Springs,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   CODE or THIS CODE. The Revised Code of Ordinances of the City of Creal
Springs.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and City Council
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Creal Springs.
   COUNTY. Williamson County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Williamson County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FISCAL YEAR. Begins on May 1 of each year and ends on April 30 of the
following year.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States or of this state or of any town or county of this state and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and the statutes of
the State of Illinois, the ordinances of the city, and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorize and recognized by the City Council
in the employee agreement.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Creal Springs.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony, as defined by state law.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code.
(65 ILCS 5)
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT, and NEGLIGENTLY. Imports a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a hazard
to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICIAL TIME.
      (1)   Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of city business, except during applicable daylight savings time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour.
      (2)   All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or
other premises maintained by or at the expense of the city shall be set and run
at the OFFICIAL TIME prescribed by this definition.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the city” and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee
of this city having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated.
   OPERATOR. As used in this code, shall mean the person who is in charge of
any operation, business, or profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Creal Springs. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the
employ of a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state, or federal governments or officers and agencies
thereof or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water, or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail, and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. As used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things
in small quantities direct to the consumer.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WILLFUL.
      (1)   When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to.
      (2)   It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another
or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of that person or, in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark or an electronic signature, as defined
in the Electronic Commerce Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as
otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed, and the word YEAR, alone,
is equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 175 1-101 et seq.
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed
according to the rules of grammar and common usage.
      (2)   Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular
meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition or otherwise, shall be
construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   (1)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the
last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday, as defined or fixed in any
statute now or hereafter in force in this state, and then, it shall also be
excluded.
      (2)   If the day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or, in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and divisions or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances,
the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission from
reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances, as numbered
and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent ordinances
numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by the City
Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances shall remain in full force and effect, unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
      all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code shall
be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for any one offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-20)
   (B)   Any minor or person designated a juvenile by this state convicted of a
violation of any section of this code shall be fined not less than $75 nor more
than $750 for any one offense but may not be confined, except by provisions of
the Juvenile Court Act of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-21)
   (C)   Whoever commits an offense against the city or aids, abets, counsels,
commands, induces, or procures its commission is punishable as a principal.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-22)
   (D)   Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which, if directly
performed by him, her, or another would be an offense against the city, is
punishable as a principal.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-23)
   (E)   All municipal ordinance offenses may be satisfied without a court
appearance by written plea of guilty and payment of the minimum fine, plus
court costs, unless a court appearance is required by the ordinance violated.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-24)
   (F)   A penalty imposed for the violation of any section of this code may
include or consist of a requirement that the defendant perform some reasonable
public service work, such as, but not limited to, the picking up of litter in
public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-7 and 65 ILCS 5/1-2-8
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Wards
   
11.02   Property outside city limits owned by city
   
11.03   Corporate seal, records
   
11.04   Municipal year
§ 11.01 WARDS.
   There are hereby created and established three wards for the city, to-wit:
First Ward, Second Ward, and Third Ward, the boundaries of which shall be known
and designated as follows.
   (A)   The First Ward shall comprise all that territory within the corporate
limits of the city lying west of Johnson Street.
   (B)   The Second Ward shall comprise all that territory within the corporate
limits of the city lying east of Brown Street and south of State Highway 166.
   (C)   The Third Ward shall comprise all that territory within the corporate
limits of the city lying east of Johnson Street and north of State Highway No.
166.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 11.02 PROPERTY OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS OWNED BY CITY.
   All property which is owned by the city and lies outside the corporate
limits of the city and does not lie within the corporate limits of any other
municipality shall be subject to the ordinances, control, and jurisdiction of
the city, in all respects the same as the property owned by the city which lies
within the corporate limits thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-36)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/7-4-2
§ 11.03 CORPORATE SEAL, RECORDS.
   (A)   Corporate seal.
      (1)   The seal provided by the City Council, consisting of the words
“City of Creal Springs” around the outer edge of the seal and the word “seal”
in the center of said seal shall be and is hereby established and declared to
be the seal of the city.
      (2)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the city and in all other cases in which, by
law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the City Clerk, who shall be the legal
custodian.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-19)
   (B)   Official records. All official records, including the corporate seal,
shall be kept in the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-32)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 11.04 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year of the city shall begin on May 1 of each year and shall
end on April 30 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY; POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   EMERGENCIES; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
      
34.   FUNDS AND INVESTMENTS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   MUNICIPAL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; chief executive officer
   
30.02   Mayor Pro Tem; Temporary Chairperson; Acting Mayor
   
30.03   Mayor’s signature
   
30.04   Appointment, supervision, and removal of officers
   
30.05   Settling disputes
   
30.06   Formal occasions
   
30.07   General duties
   
30.08   Business License, Local Liquor, and Health Commissioner
   
30.09   Deciding vote
City Council
   
30.20   Established; members
   
30.21   Jurisdiction
   
30.22   Committees
   
30.23   Alderperson prohibited from holding other office
   
30.24   Filling vacancies
Meeting Regulations
   
30.35   Regular and special meetings
   
30.36   Quorum
   
30.37   Members refusing to attend
   
30.38   Rules of order
   
30.39   Agenda
   
30.40   Address by non-members
   
30.41   Closed meetings
   
30.42   Remote meeting participation; attendance policy
Ordinances
   
30.55   Prepared and introduced
   
30.56   Vote required
   
30.57   Approval, veto
   
30.58   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
30.59   No vote to be reconsidered at special meetings
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   Election. The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall
serve until a successor is elected and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-50)
   (B)   Chief executive officer. The Mayor shall be the chief executive
officer of the city and shall see to the enforcement of all laws and
ordinances. The Mayor shall preside over the meetings of the City Council and
perform such duties as may be required of him or her by statute or law. The
Mayor shall have supervision over all of the executive officers and city
employees; provided, however, his or her control is subject to the power of the
City Council to prescribe the duties of various officers and employees. The
Mayor shall have the power and authority, at any reasonable time, to inspect
all books, papers, and records pertaining to city affairs and kept by any
officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-52)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10, and 65 ILCS
3.1-35-20
§ 30.02 MAYOR PRO TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRPERSON; ACTING MAYOR.
   (A)   Election of an Acting Mayor. The election of an Acting Mayor, pursuant
to §§
31.07(E) or
31.08, does not create a vacancy in the original office of the person on the
City Council, unless the person resigns from the original office following
election as Acting Mayor. If the person resigns from the original office
following election as Acting Mayor, then the original office must be filled
pursuant to the terms of this section, and the Acting Mayor shall exercise the
powers of the Mayor and shall vote and have veto power in the manner provided
by law for a Mayor. If the person does not resign from the original office
following election as Acting Mayor, then the Acting Mayor shall exercise the
powers of the Mayor but shall be entitled to vote only in the manner provided
for as the holder of the original office and shall not have the power to veto.
If the person does not resign from the original office following election as
Acting Mayor and if that person’s original term of office has not expired when
a Mayor is elected and has qualified for office, the Acting Mayor shall return
to the original office for the remainder of the term thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-41)
   (B)   Mayor Pro-Tem; Temporary Chairperson.
      (1)   If the Mayor is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to
perform official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the
office, the corporate authorities shall elect one of their members to act as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem, during this absence or disability, shall
perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor but shall
not be entitled to vote both as Mayor Pro Tem and as an Alderperson.
      (2)   In the absence of the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, the corporate
authorities may elect one of their members to act as a Temporary Chairperson.
The Temporary Chairperson shall have only the powers of a Presiding Officer and
a right to vote only in the capacity as Alderperson on any ordinance,
resolution, or motion.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-51)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35
§ 30.03 MAYOR’S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all city warrants, commissions, permits, and
licenses granted by authority of the City Council, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or
her official signature.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to any
written instrument that requires the Mayor’s signature. The Mayor must send
written notice of this designation to the City Council stating the name of the
person whom he or she has selected and what instrument the person will have
authority to sign.
   (C)   A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so designated
with the signature underneath the signature of the person so designated shall
be attached to the notice. The notice with the signature attached shall be
recorded in the journal of the City Council and then filed with the City Clerk.
When the signature of the Mayor is placed on a written instrument at the
direction of the Mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all
respects, shall be as binding on the city as if signed by the Mayor in person.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-53)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30
§ 30.04 APPOINTMENT, SUPERVISION, AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment of officers.
      (1)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, all officers
of the city whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the municipality.
      (2)   Filling vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council, all officers of the city whose appointment
will not otherwise be provided for by law, and whenever a vacancy shall occur
in any office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to
fill, the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the City Council,
communicate to it the name of the appointee to such office, and pending the
concurrence of the City Council in such appointment, the Mayor may designate
some suitable person to discharge the functions of such office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-54)
   (B)   Supervise conduct of officers; removal of officers. The Mayor shall
supervise the conduct of all officers of the city and see that they faithfully
and efficiently discharge the duties of their respective offices. Except where
otherwise provided by statute, the Mayor may remove any officer appointed by
the Mayor under this code, on any written charge, whenever the Mayor is of the
opinion that the interests of the municipality demand removal. The Mayor shall
report the reasons for the removal to the corporate authorities at a meeting to
be held not less than five days nor more than ten days after the removal. If
the Mayor fails or refuses to report to the corporate authorities the reasons
for the removal or if the corporate authorities, by a two-thirds vote of all
members authorized by law to be elected, disapprove of the removal, the officer
thereupon shall be restored to the office from which the officer was removed.
The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be entered upon the journal of
the corporate authorities. Upon restoration, the officer shall give a new bond
and take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time for
the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-55)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10, and 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-55-5
§ 30.05 SETTLING DISPUTES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the City Attorney, and the Mayor shall have the power
to delegate to any appointive officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-56)
§ 30.06 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions, but in the absence or inability to attend any such function, the
Mayor may select any other city officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-57)
§ 30.07 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed. The
Mayor, from time to time, may and annually shall give the City Council
information relative to the affairs of the city and may recommend for their
consideration such measures as he or she believes expedient.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-58)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5
§ 30.08 BUSINESS LICENSE, LOCAL LIQUOR, AND HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Business License Commissioner. The Mayor is hereby designated as
License Commissioner to issue and revoke any and all business licenses, as
prescribed by law, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-59)
   (B)   Local Liquor Commissioner. The Mayor is hereby designated as Local
Liquor Commissioner with all the powers to license and/or revoke any city
liquor license according to state and city laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-60)
   (C)   Health Commissioner. The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health
Commissioner with all powers to abate and remove all nuisances or health
hazards within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city authority as
prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-61)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2
§ 30.09 DECIDING VOTE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution, or motion except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Alderperson has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Alderpersons elected have voted in favor of
an ordinance, resolution, or motion, even though there is no tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by the state statutes to adopt an ordinance, resolution, or motion.
   (B)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Alderperson, but he or she shall not be entitled to another
vote in his or her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-62)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.20 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and Alderperson, two from each
of the three wards, and their term of office shall be for four years and until
their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(D) and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-10
§ 30.21 JURISDICTION.
   The City Council shall have jurisdiction in and over all places within one-
half mile of the corporate limits for the purpose of enforcing health and
quarantine ordinances and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-35)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/7-41
§ 30.22 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees.
      (1)   The following standing committees of the City Council are hereby
established, to-wit:
         (a)   Finance;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Streets;
         (d)   Recreation; and
         (e)   Public Utilities.
      (2)   The committees shall be appointed annually by the Mayor.
      (3)   The Mayor shall be ex officio Chairperson of each and every
standing committee.    
      (4)   So far as is practicable, reports of committees shall be in
writing.
      (5)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the Council shall
be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the same
after the report is made, upon the request of any two Alderpersons present.
      (6)   All committee meetings are subject to the Open Meetings Act
requirements and minutes shall be taken.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
   (B)   Special committees. Special Committees may be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the advice and consent of the Alderpersons, as may be needed from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1, 5 ILCS 120/2.06, and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-
35
§ 30.23 ALDERPERSON PROHIBITED FROM HOLDING OTHER OFFICE.
   (A)   No Alderperson of this city, during the term of office for which he or
she is elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed by
the Mayor except if such Alderperson is granted a leave of absence from such
office. However, such Alderperson may serve as a volunteer firefighter and
receive compensation for such service. Any appointment in violation of this
section is void.
   (B)   One member may serve on the Library Board, if one exists.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15, and 75 ILCS 5/4-
1
§ 30.24 FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   An appointment by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, as the case may be, of a
qualified person as described in §
31.07(A) to fill a vacancy in the office of Alderperson must be made within 60
days after the vacancy occurs. Once the appointment of the qualified person has
been forwarded to the corporate authorities, the corporate authorities shall
act upon the appointment within 30 days. If the appointment fails to receive
the advice and consent of the corporate authorities within 30 days, the Mayor
or Acting Mayor shall appoint and forward to the corporate authorities a second
qualified person, as described in §
31.07(A).
   (B)   Once the appointment of the second qualified person has been forwarded
to the corporate authorities, the corporate authorities shall act upon the
appointment within 30 days. If the appointment of the second qualified person
also fails to receive the advice and consent of the corporate authorities, then
the Mayor or Acting Mayor, without the advice and consent of the corporate
authorities, may make a temporary appointment from those persons who were
appointed but whose appointments failed to receive the advice and consent of
the corporate authorities. The person receiving the temporary appointment shall
serve until an appointment has received the advice and consent and the
appointee has qualified or until a person has been elected and has qualified,
whichever first occurs.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-42)
MEETING REGULATIONS
§ 30.35 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the City Council shall be
held in the Municipal Building on the second Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m.
When said meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on
the next secular day at the same hour. Adjourned meetings may be held at such
times as may be determined by the City Council. Public notice of regular
meetings shall be given as prescribed in §§ 2.02 and 2.03 of the Open Meetings
Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the City Council may be called
by the Mayor or any three Alderperson by giving at least 48-hours notice
thereof by delivering to them personally written or printed notices of the time
of such meeting at the residences of the Alderpersons; such notices shall be
served by mail, by the City Clerk, or a designated representative. Said notices
shall specify the purpose of said special meeting and the business to be taken
up at that time and place. Such notice shall be posted at the City Hall and
shall be provided to any local newspaper of general circulation or any local
radio or television station that has filed an annual request for such notice.
The notice shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as said
notice is given to the Mayor and members of the City Council, provided such
news media has given the city an address within the city at which such notice
may be given.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
(Ord. 24-02, passed 6-12-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25, 65 ILCS 120/2.02, and 65 ILCS
120/2.03
§ 30.36 QUORUM.
   (A)   At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the corporate
authorities shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and if
no such quorum attends such meeting of the Council, the Alderpersons may
adjourn from day to day until a quorum is present and shall have power to
compel the attendance of absent members, except when such members are
physically unable to attend such meetings.
   (B)   When the Council has a Mayor and six Alderpersons, a quorum is four,
which may consist of the Mayor and three Alderpersons or four Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.37 MEMBERS REFUSING TO ATTEND.
   Any member of the City Council who shall neglect or refuse to attend any
meeting of the City Council shall be fined the sum of $25 for failure to attend
such meeting. No member shall receive compensation for neglecting or refusing
to attend said meeting under the provisions of §
30.35(A). A person may neglect or refuse up to two meetings a year and still be
paid. No procedure is set forth in the statutes for determining that a vacancy
exists. Where a true question exists as to the presence of a vacancy, a hearing
should be held before the vacancy is declared. A registered letter should be
sent to the last known address of the person whose office is in question.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.38 RULES OF ORDER.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the City Council.
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business shall be as follows, and all
questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the Chair,
without debate, subject to appeals:
      (1)   Call to order by Presiding Officer;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   The reading of the journal of the proceedings of the last preceding
meeting or meetings, and correction and approval of the same, unless dispensed
with by the Alderperson and correction of the journal of the proceedings of
previous meetings;
      (4)   Reports and communications from the Mayor and other city officers;
      (5)   Visitors and public comment (see §
30.40);
      (6)   Reports of standing committees;
      (7)   Reports of special committees;
      (8)   Presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions, orders, and
ordinances by the Alderpersons;
      (9)   Unfinished business; and
      (10)   Miscellaneous business.
   (B)   Duties of Presiding Officer.
      (1)   The Presiding Officer shall preserve order and decorum and may
speak to points of order in preference to other Alderpersons and shall decide
all question of order, subject to appeal.
      (2)   In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the Presiding
Officer shall have the power to require that the chamber be cleared.
   (C)   Duties of members. While the Presiding Officer is putting the
question, no member shall walk across or out of the Council Chamber. Every
member, previous to his or her speaking, making a motion, or seconding the same
shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the
Chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the question under debate,
avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the motives of any other
member’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. After the public comment period, no person other than a
member of the Council shall address that body unless permitted under the
provisions of §
30.40.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance, or other original
matter, the member shall read such matter when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate. No member shall speak more than once on the same question,
except by consent of the Presiding Officer or unless three-fourths of the
corporate authorities agree that one’s right to debate should be limited to
speak only once and, then, not until every other Alderperson desiring to speak
shall have had an opportunity to do so; provided, however, the proponent of the
matter under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open
and close debate. The City Council, by motion, may limit debate. The Presiding
Officer shall have the right to participate in debate. While a member is
speaking, no Alderperson shall hold any private discussion nor pass between the
speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of Alderpersons to order. A member, when called to order by the
Chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat, and the
order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to
the right to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the Chair. Any member may appeal to the
Council from a ruling of the Chair, and if the appeal is seconded, the
Alderperson making the appeal may briefly state his or her reason for the same,
and the Chair may briefly explain his or her ruling, but there shall be no
debate on the appeal, and no other person shall participate in the discussion.
The Presiding Officer shall have the right to participate in debate. The Chair
shall then put the question: Shall the decision of the Chair be sustained?. If
a majority of the Alderpersons present vote “no,” the decision of the Chair
shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Council on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned, or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless he or she is personally interested in
the question; in which case, he or she shall take whatever steps are necessary
to ensure that his or her vote is not taken.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the City Council may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the
Alderpersons present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of notions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the Presiding Officer before debate, and
every motion in the Council, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Withdrawal of motions. After a motion or resolution is stated by the
Presiding Officer, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Alderpersons,
but it may be withdrawn at any time before decision by consent of the
Alderpersons.
   (N)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Alderpersons, by a majority vote of the
Alderpersons present, may divide such question.
   (O)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Alderpersons moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (P)   Taking and entering the votes - explanations of votes not permitted.
If any member requires it, the “yeas” and “nays” upon any question shall be
taken and entered in the journal, but the yeas and nays shall not be taken
unless called for prior to any vote on the question. When the Clerk has
commenced to call the roll of the members for the taking of a vote by yeas and
nays, all debate on the question before the City Council shall be deemed
concluded, and during the taking of the vote, no member shall be permitted to
explain his or her vote but shall respond to the calling of his or her name by
the Clerk by answering yea or nay, as the case may be.
   (Q)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk but shall be handed to the Chairperson
for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally list has passed
from the hands of the Clerk.
   (R)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (R)(1)(b), (R)(1)(d), and (R)(1)(e) above are to be
decided without debate.
   (S)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the City Council shall always be in order,
except:
         (a)   When an Alderperson is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The City Council may, at any time, adjourn over one or more regular
meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Alderperson authorized by law to be
elected.
   (T)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question and seconded, it shall be put on this form: Shall the main question
now be put?. If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and, then, upon the main question.
   (U)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table. A motion to
lay the question on the table shall not be debatable, but a motion to lay on
the table and publish or with any other condition shall be subject to amendment
and debate.
      (1)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Alderpersons vote therefor.
      (2)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (V)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time. When consideration of a motion or other proposition is
postponed indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (1)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (2)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes, so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (W)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (X)   Motion to amend. A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but
one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (1)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (2)   On an amendment to “strike out and insert,” the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand, if so amended, shall be read.
      (3)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (Y)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (Z)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible and, if
accepted by the Alderperson by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (AA)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not be
renewed nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Alderpersons
who voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, where a motion has received a
majority vote in the affirmative but is declared lost solely on the ground that
a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of such motion, then, in such case, a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such question to be
reconsidered.
   (BB)   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order Revised shall govern the Council in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Council.
   (CC)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the Alderpersons entitled by
law to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered, or amended, unless by
concurrence of two-thirds of all the Alderpersons entitled by law to be
elected.
   (DD)   Censure of Alderpersons; expulsion of Alderpersons. Any Alderperson
acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner or who uses opprobrious,
obscene, and insulting language to or about any member of the Council or who
does not obey the order of the Chair shall be, on motion, censured by a
majority vote of the members present or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all
Alderpersons elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15
§ 30.39 AGENDA.
   (A)   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation,
shall be furnished to each member of the Council no later than 48 hours prior
to the regular Council meeting.
   (B)   In the case of emergency matters, which could not have been reasonably
foreseen in sufficient time to comply with this section, a revised agenda will
be furnished to each member of the Council prior to the opening of the Council
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02
§ 30.40 ADDRESS BY NON-MEMBERS.
   (A)   Public comment request. Any person not a member of the City Council
may address the City Council with regard to items of proposed business under
the following rules.
      (1)   He or she shall rise (if not physically impaired) and state his or
her name for the record and, unless further time is granted by the Council,
limit remarks to five minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the City
Council not to any member thereof.
      (2)   No person other than the Council member recognizing the individual
addressing the Council and the person having the floor shall be permitted to
enter into any discussion directly or through a member of the Council without
the permission of the Mayor. No questions shall be asked of an Alderperson
except through the Mayor. Any person making personal or impertinent remarks or
who shall become disruptive addressing the City Council shall be forthwith
evicted from the Council room by the Mayor.
   (B)   Auxiliary aid or service. The City shall take appropriate steps to
ensure that communications with applicants, participants, members of the
public, and companions with disabilities are as effective as communications
with orders.
      (1)   The city shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aid(s) and service(s),
where necessary, to afford qualified individuals with disabilities (including
applicants, participants, companions, and members of the public) an equal
opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of a service, program, or
activity of the city.
      (2)   Auxiliary aids and services shall be provided in a timely manner,
      (3)   Individuals shall notify the City Clerk 14 days in advance,
specifying the appropriate auxiliary aids or services required.
   (C)   Chief of Police.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or his or her authorized designee shall be the
Sergeant at Arms at the Council meetings. He or she shall carry out all orders
and instructions of the Mayor for the purposes of maintaining order and
decorum.
      (2)   The Sergeant at Arms shall remove any person violating order and
decorum of the meeting. Such removal may be accompanied by further prosecution
for any violation of any ordinance under this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.06
§ 30.41 CLOSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   Recording closed sessions. The city shall keep a verbatim record of
all closed or executive session meetings of the corporate authorities of the
city or any subsidiary “public body,” as defined by the State Open Meetings
Act, 5 ILCS 120/1. The verbatim record shall be in the form of an audio or
video recording as determined by the corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
   (B)   Responsibility for recording closed sessions and maintaining
recordings. The City Clerk or his or her designee shall be responsible for
arranging for the recording of such closed or executive sessions. In the
absence of the City Clerk or his or her designee, the meeting Chair will
arrange for the audio or video recording of the closed or executive session of
the City Council. Each subsidiary public body of the city shall designate an
individual who will be responsible for the recording of any and all closed or
executive sessions of the subsidiary body and for providing the City Clerk with
a copy of such recording. The City Clerk or his or her designee shall securely
maintain the verbatim recordings of all closed sessions of the corporate
authorities of the city and all subsidiary public bodies of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
   (C)   Closed session minutes. In addition to the recordings of the closed
and executive session, as addressed herein, the city will keep minutes of all
closed meetings in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Act, 5
ILCS 120/2.06.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
   (D)   Procedure for recording. At the beginning of each closed session,
those present shall identify themselves by voice for the audio recording. If
the meeting is videotaped, those present shall individually appear on camera
and identify themselves by voice at the beginning of the closed session. The
meeting Chair shall also announce the times the closed session commences and
ends at the appropriate points on the recording.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
   (E)   Back-up equipment/procedure for equipment malfunction. The city shall
maintain sufficient tapes, batteries, and equipment for the city to comply with
this section. The City Clerk or his or her designee shall periodically check
the equipment to confirm that it is functioning. In the event that anyone
present at a closed session determines that the equipment is not functioning
properly, the closed session will be temporarily suspended to attempt to
correct any malfunction. In the event that an equipment malfunction cannot be
corrected immediately, the closed session will terminate until such time as the
closed session may proceed with a functioning recording device.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
   (F)   Procedure for review of closed session minutes and recordings. At one
meeting at least every six months, the agenda shall include the item: “Review
of the minutes and recordings of all closed sessions that have not yet been
released for public review and determination of which minutes, if any, may be
released.” Minutes shall be reviewed in closed session and shall not be
released unless the corporate authorities of the city find that it is no longer
necessary to protect the public interest or the privacy of an individual by
keeping them confidential. As to any minutes not released, the corporate
authorities shall find that the “need for confidentiality still exists” as to
those minutes. Minutes of closed sessions shall be kept indefinitely.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
   (G)   Maintenance and public release of recordings and access to tapes. The
audio or video tape recordings of closed sessions shall be maintained for 18
months after the closed session and shall not be released to the public unless
such release is required by a court order or specifically authorized for
release by a vote of the City Council. Members of the corporate authorities may
listen to the closed session recordings in the presence of the City Clerk or
his or her designee. Copies of such tapes will not be made or provided to
anyone unless specifically authorized by vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
   (H)   Procedure for destruction of recordings. The City Clerk or his or her
designee is hereby authorized to destroy the audio and video recordings of
those closed sessions for which:
      (1)   The corporate authorities of the city have approved the minutes of
the closed sessions as to accurate content, regardless of whether the minutes
have been released for public review;
      (2)   More than 18 months have elapsed since the date of the closed
session;
      (3)   There is no court order requiring the preservation of such
recording; and
      (4)   The corporate authorities of the city have not passed a motion
requiring the preservation of the verbatim recording of that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1, 5 ILCS 120/2, and 5 ILCS 120/2.06
§ 30.42 REMOTE MEETING PARTICIPATION; ATTENDANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Statutory authority for participation. Pursuant to Pub. Act 94-1058,
which amends the Open Meetings Act in 5 ILCS 120/7, this municipality does
hereby establish a policy that permits members of the corporate body to attend
meetings by means other than physical presence.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-11)
   (B)   Definition. The term MEETING shall mean any gathering, whether in
person or by video or audio conference, telephone calls, electronic means (such
as, without limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat, and instant
messaging), or other means of contemporary interactive communication of a
majority of a quorum of the members of a public body held for the purpose of
discussing public business or such other definition as shall be contained
within the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-12)
   (C)   Amendment of previous terms. The definition of meeting set forth in
division (B) above shall supersede and replace any other definition used in any
previous or existing ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-13)
   (D)   Remote participation policy. The city hereby adopts the Remote
Participation Policy, as outlined in division (E) below, that permits a member
of the public body to attend and participate in any meeting of a public body,
as defined in the Open Meetings Act, from a remote location via telephone,
video, or internet connection, provided that such attendance and participation
is in compliance with the policy and any applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-14)
   (E)   Governmental Unit Remote Attendance Policy.
      (1)   Policy statement. It is the policy of the city that a member of any
group associated with this unit of government, which is subject to the
provisions of the Open Meetings Act, may attend and participate in any open or
closed meeting of that covered group from a remote location via telephone,
video, or internet connection, provided that such attendance and participation
is in compliance with this policy and any other applicable laws.
      (2)   Prerequisites. A member of the covered group of the city shall be
provided the opportunity to attend an open and closed meeting or only one of
such meetings from a remote location if the member meets that following
conditions and a majority of a quorum of the covered body votes to approve the
remote attendance.
         (a)   The member must notify the Recording Secretary or Clerk of the
covered body at least 24 hours before the meeting, unless advance notice is
impractical.
         (b)   The member must meet one of three reasons described herein why
he or she is unable to physically attend the meeting, including either: the
member cannot attend because of personal illness or disability; the member
cannot attend because of employment purposes or the business of the city; or
the member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
         (3)   A quorum of the covered body must be physically present.
      (3)   Voting procedure. After roll call, a vote of the covered body shall
be taken, considering the prerequisites set forth in division (B) above, on
whether to allow an off-site Board member to participate remotely. All of the
members physically present are permitted to vote on whether remote
participation will be allowed. A vote may be taken to permit remote
participation for a stated series of meetings if the same reason applies in
each case. Otherwise, a vote must be taken to allow each remote participation.
      (4)   Quorum and vote required. A quorum must be established by members
physically present at any meeting before it can be considered whether to allow
a member to participate in the meeting remotely. A vote of a majority of a
quorum shall be necessary to decide the issue. For the meeting to continue,
there shall always need to be a quorum physically present.
      (5)   Minutes. The member participating remotely shall be considered an
off-site participant and counted as present by means of video or audio
conference for that meeting of the members and is allowed to participate. The
meeting minutes of the city shall also reflect and state specifically whether
each member is physically present, present by video, or present by audio means.
(Prior Code, Chapter 1, Addendum A)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/7
ORDINANCES
§ 30.55 PREPARED AND INTRODUCED.
   (A)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to prepare such
ordinances as may be required by the City Council.
   (B)   Introduced. When a proposed ordinance is introduced, it shall be read
one time by title only and referred to the proper committee, unless the City
Council shall otherwise specifically direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
§ 30.56 VOTE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   The passage of all ordinances, for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion to create any liability against a city or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all members then holding office on the City Council, including the
Mayor, unless otherwise expressly provided herein or any other act governing
the passage of any ordinance, resolution, or motion; provided, where the
Council consists of an odd number of Alderpersons, the vote of the majority of
the Alderpersons shall be sufficient to pass an ordinance.
      (2)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage
of the designated ordinances, resolutions, or motions and recorded in the
journal of the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   In addition, the corporate authorities at any meeting may, by
unanimous consent, take a single vote by yeas or nays on the several questions
of the passage on any two or more of the designated ordinances, orders,
resolutions, or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single group.
      (2)   The single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under
the designation “omnibus vote,” and in such event, the Clerk may enter the
words “omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering names of the members of City Council voting “yea” and of those voting
“nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions,
and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda.
   (C)   (1)   The taking of such single or omnibus vote and such entries of
the words “omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal shall be a
sufficient compliance with the requirements of this section to all intents and
purposes and with like effect as if the vote in each case had been separately
by yeas and nays on the question of the passage of each ordinance, order,
resolution, and motion included in such omnibus group and separately recorded
in the journal.
      (2)   Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the
passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any Alderperson and
shall be recorded in the journal.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40
§ 30.57 APPROVAL, VETO.
   (A)   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against the
city or that provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money or to
sell any city property and all ordinances passed by the City Council shall be
deposited with the City Clerk.
   (B)   If the Mayor approves an ordinance or resolution, the Mayor shall sign
it. Those ordinances, resolutions, and motions which the Mayor disapproves
shall be returned to the City Council, with the Mayor’s written objections, at
the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring not less than five days
after their passage.
   (C)   The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any
ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation, and if so, the
remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an
ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails to
return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his or her
written objections within the designated time, it shall become effective,
despite the absence of the Mayor’s signature.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45
§ 30.58 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   Every resolution and motion, specified in §§
30.55 through
30.57 and every ordinance that is returned to the City Council by the Mayor
shall be reconsidered by the City Council at the next regular meeting following
the regular meeting at which the City Council receives the Mayor’s written
objection. If, after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Alderpersons then
holding office on the City Council agree at that regular meeting to pass an
ordinance, resolution, or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to
approve it, then it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage
over the Mayor’s veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the
journal.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50
§ 30.59 NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special
meeting unless there are present at the special meeting at least as many
Alderpersons as were present when the vote was taken.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Elections
   
31.02   Municipal officer regulations
   
31.03   Elective office
   
31.04   Bonds   
   
31.05   Liability insurance
   
31.06   General salary regulations
   
31.07   Vacancies
   
31.08   Election to fill vacancies
Officers Established
   
31.20   City Clerk
   
31.21   Deputy Clerk
   
31.22   City Treasurer
   
31.23   Judiciary
   
31.24   City Engineer
   
31.25   Superintendent of Public Works
   
31.26   City Collector
   
31.27   Salaries of officials
Employment Policies
   
31.40   Risk Management Association
   
31.41   Expense reimbursement
   
31.42   Federal Old Age and Survivor’s Insurance System
   
31.43   Social Security Number Policy adopted
   
31.44   Ethics Code adopted
   
31.45   Equal Employment Policy adopted
   
31.46   Drug-Free Workplace Policy adopted
   
31.47   Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy adopted
   
31.48   Sexual Harassment Policy adopted
   
31.49   Anti-Bullying Policy adopted
   
31.50   Domestic and Sexual Violence Policy adopted
   
31.51   Social Media Policy adopted
   
31.52   Paid Leave Policy adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of 10 ILCS and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10
concerning municipal elections shall govern the conduct of the city elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected city officials shall
occur at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council in the month
of May following the general municipal election in April.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 10 ILCS, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10, and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-
15
§ 31.02 MUNICIPAL OFFICER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the city, regardless of the time of creation of the
office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
   (B)   Qualifications; appointive office.
      (1)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive municipal office
unless that person is a qualified elector of the municipality or otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   The residency requirements do not apply, however, to municipal
engineers, health officers, attorneys, or other officers who require technical
training or knowledge or to appointed city treasurers or to appointed city
collectors (unless the city has designated, by ordinance, that the City Clerk
shall also hold the Office of Collector).
   (C)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the City
Council upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Council, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (D)   Books delivered to successor.
      (1)   Every officer shall, upon going out of office, deliver to his or
her successor all books, papers, furniture, and other things appertaining to
such office and which are the property of the city. Within five days after
notification and request, any person who has been an officer of a municipality
is required to deliver to his or her successor in office all property, books,
and effects in his or her possession belonging to the municipality or
pertaining to the office he or she has held.
      (2)   Upon his or her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all
damages caused thereby and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to
the provisions of §
10.99. He or she shall not receive his or her final check until his or her city
code book and keys are turned over to the City Clerk.
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the City Council.
   (F)   Fees; report of fees.
      (1)   No officer of the municipality shall be entitled to charge or
receive any fees as against the city. All officers of the city entitled to
receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof, and make a report thereof
under oath to the City Council prior to the regular meeting of each month.
      (2)   In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service, and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the City Treasury.
   (G)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the city shall perform
such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as the
City Council may provide by law.
   (H)   Conservators of peace.
      (1)   After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful
completion of a training course administered by the State Law Enforcement
Training Standards Board, the Mayor, Alderpersons, and police officers in
municipalities shall be conservators of the peace. Those persons and others
authorized by ordinance shall have power:
         (a)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
         (b)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
         (c)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place or until they can be brought before the proper court;
and
         (d)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace
prescribed by the corporate authorities.
      (2)   All warrants for the violation of municipal ordinances or the state
criminal law, directed to any person, may be served and executed within the
limits of a municipality by any police officer of the municipality. For that
purpose, police officers have all the common law and statutory powers of
Sheriffs.
   (I)   Oath.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
         “I, __________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of according to the best of
my ability.”
      (2)   The Mayor and the Clerk shall have the power to administer this
oath or affirmation upon all lawful occasions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30, 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-10-35, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20, and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25
§ 31.03 ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the municipality and has resided in the
municipality at least one year next preceding the election.
   (B)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office if that
person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the
municipality or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of
any infamous crime, bribery, perjury, or other felony.
   (C)   A person is not eligible for the Office of Alderperson of a ward
unless that person has resided in the ward that the person seeks to represent,
and a person is not eligible for the Office of Trustee of a district unless
that person has resided in the municipality at least one year next preceding
the election or appointment, except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-25 and 65
ILCS 5/5-2-2.
   (D)   If a person is a resident of a municipality immediately prior to the
active duty military service of that person or that person’s spouse resides
anywhere outside of the municipality during that active duty military service
and, immediately upon completion of that active duty military service, is again
a resident of the municipality, then the time during which the person resides
outside the municipality during the active duty military service is deemed to
be time during which the person is a resident of the municipality for purposes
of determining the residency requirement under division (A) above (People v.
Hofer, 363, III. App. 3d 719 (5th District)).
(Prior Code, § 1-2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(A), 65 ILCS
5/3.1-10-5(B), 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-25, 65 ILCS 5/5-2-2, and 730 ILCS 5/5-5-5(b)
§ 31.04 BONDS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of city officers required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor: $50,000;
      (2)   City Treasurer: $50,000;
      (3)   City Clerk: $50,000;
      (4)   City Collector: $50,000; and
      (5)   Police Chief: $50,000.
   (B)   Premium payment by city. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the city.
   (C)   Surety. The City Council shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the City Council, any one of the Alderpersons, or
any elected or appointed officer of the city appear as bondsperson or security.
If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by
the City Council or if any bondsperson, after becoming such, is elected or
appointed to any city office, this section shall not act as a release of any
such obligation incurred.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 270/1 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30   
§ 31.05 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Purchase of. The City Council shall have the power to purchase
liability insurance covering and insuring all municipal officers, employees,
and elected officials; said insurance to cover incidents occurring while in the
performance of their duties, which insurance may insure, cover, and protect any
liability which the municipal corporation, officer, employee, or elected
official may incur. When the insurance has been purchased, the city shall be
responsible for all premiums and deductible charges called for by any valid
liability insurance policy covering the municipal corporation, officer,
employee, or elected official.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   If the City Council elects not to purchase liability insurance
covering and insuring municipal officers, elected officials, and employees as
provided in this section, then the city shall indemnify and cause to defend
municipal officers, elected officials, and employees from any claim filed by an
individual, partnership, or corporation when the claim is founded on any act or
omission of the municipal officers, elected officials, or employees while in
the performance of their official duties, except the city shall not indemnify
but shall defend any municipal officer, elected official, or employee from any
claim made by an individual, partnership, or corporation wherein the claim
alleges that the municipal officer, elected official, or employee acted
intentionally, maliciously, or wantonly and further shall not indemnify or
cause to defend the officials or employees where the claim is directly or
indirectly related to the negligent care or use of a vehicle, as defined by the
state statutes, and the city shall not indemnify any municipal officer, elected
official, or employee from any claim made by a municipal officer, elected
official, or employee.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, the city shall
not indemnify or cause to defend any municipal officers, elected officials, or
employees if the municipal officers, elected officials, or employees have
liability insurance insuring the municipal officers, elected officials, or
employees from the alleged claim; however, the city shall indemnify the
municipal officer, elected official, or employee the personal deductible limits
of his or her personal policy.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.
§ 31.06 GENERAL SALARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
   (C)   Establishment of salaries.
      (1)   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established
in the appropriation ordinance or annual budget.
      (2)   The salary of elected officials must be established in an ordinance
other than the appropriation ordinance at least one 180 days before the
beginning of the terms of the officers whose compensation is to be filed.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10
§ 31.07 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Resignation of appointed officials. Any officer of the city may resign
from office. If such officer resigns, he or she shall continue in office until
his or her successor has been chosen and has qualified. If there is a failure
to appoint a city officer or the person appointed fails to qualify, the person
filling the office shall continue in office until his or her successor has been
chosen and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-23)
   (B)   Vacancy by resignation. A resignation is not effective unless it is in
writing, signed by the person holding the elective office, and notarized.
      (1)   Unconditional resignation. An unconditional resignation by a person
holding the elective office may specify a future date, not later than 60 days
after the date the resignation is received by the officer authorized to fill
the vacancy, at which time it becomes operative, but the resignation may not be
withdrawn after it is received by the officer authorized to fill the vacancy.
The effective date of a resignation that does not specify a future date at
which it becomes operative is the date the resignation is received by the
officer authorized to fill the vacancy. The effective date of a resignation
that has a specified future effective date is that specified future date or the
date the resignation is received by the officer authorized to fill the vacancy,
whichever date occurs later.
      (2)   Conditional resignation. A resignation that does not become
effective unless a specified event occurs can be withdrawn at anytime prior to
the occurrence of the specified event, but if not withdrawn, the effective date
of the resignation is the date of the occurrence of the specified event or the
date the resignation is received by the officer authorized to fill the vacancy,
whichever date occurs later.
      (3)   Vacancy upon the effective date. For the purpose of determining the
time period that would require an election to fill the vacancy by resignation
or the commencement of the 60-day time period referred to in §
30.24, the resignation of an elected officer is deemed to have created a
vacancy as of the effective date of the resignation.
      (4)   Duty of the Clerk. If a resignation is delivered to the Clerk of
the municipality, the Clerk shall forward a certified copy of the written
resignation to the official who is authorized to fill the vacancy within seven
business days after receipt of the resignation.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-38)
   (C)   Vacancy by death or disability.
      (1)   (a)   A vacancy occurs in an office by reason of the death of the
incumbent. The date of the death may be established by the date shown on the
death certificate. A vacancy occurs in an office by permanent physical or
mental disability rendering the person incapable of performing the duties of
the office.
         (b)   The corporate authorities have the authority to make the
determination whether an officer is incapable of performing the duties of the
office because of a permanent physical or mental disability.
      (2)   A finding of mental disability shall not be made prior to the
appointment by a court of a guardian ad litem for the officer or until a duly
licensed doctor certifies, in writing, that the officer is mentally impaired to
the extent that the officer is unable to effectively perform the duties of the
office.
      (3)   If the corporate authorities find that an officer is incapable of
performing the duties of the office due to permanent physical or mental
disability, that person is removed from the office, and the vacancy of the
office occurs on the date of the determination.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-39)
   (D)   Vacancy by other causes.
      (1)   Abandonment and other causes.
         (a)   A vacancy occurs in an office by reason of abandonment of
office, removal from office, or failure to qualify or more than temporary
removal of residence from the municipality, as the case may be.
         (b)   The corporate authorities have the authority to determine
whether a vacancy under this division (D)(1) has occurred. If the corporate
authorities determine that a vacancy exists, the office is deemed vacant as of
the date of that determination for all purposes including the calculation under
§
30.24 or §
31.08.
      (2)   Guilty of a criminal offense.
         (a)   An admission of guilt of a criminal offense that, upon
conviction, would disqualify the municipal officer from holding the office, in
the form of a written agreement with state or federal prosecutors to plead
guilty to a felony, bribery, perjury, or other infamous crime under state or
federal law, constitutes a resignation from that office, effective on the date
the plea agreement is made.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (D)(2), a conviction for an
offense that disqualifies a municipal officer from holding that office occurs
on the date of the return of a guilty verdict or, in the case of a trial by the
court, on the entry of a finding of guilt.
      (3)   Election declared void. A vacancy occurs on the date of the
decision of a competent tribunal declaring the election of the officer void.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-40)
   (E)   Vacancies due to election being declared void. In cases of vacancies
arising by reason of an election being declared void, pursuant to division (D)
(3) above, persons holding elective office prior thereto shall hold office
until their successors are elected and qualified or appointed and confirmed by
advice and consent, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-44)
   (F)   Owing a debt to the municipality. A vacancy occurs if a municipal
official fails to pay a debt to a municipality in which the official has been
elected or appointed to an elected position subject to the provisions of 65
ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(C)(4).
(Prior Code, § 1-2-45)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(C)(4)
§ 31.08 ELECTION TO FILL VACANCIES.
   (A)   (1)   If a vacancy occurs in an elective municipal office with a four-
year term and there remains an unexpired portion of the term of at least 28
months and the vacancy occurs at least 130 days before the general municipal
election next scheduled under the General Election Law, then the vacancy shall
be filled for the remainder of the term at that general municipal election.
      (2)   Whenever an election is held for this purpose, the City Clerk shall
certify the office to be filled and the candidates for the office to the proper
election authorities as provided in the General Election Law.
   (B)   If a vacancy occurs with less than 28 months remaining in the
unexpired portion of the term or less than 130 days before the general
municipal election, then the following shall occur.
      (1)   Mayor. If the vacancy is in the office of Mayor, the vacancy must
be filled by the corporate authorities, electing one of their members as Acting
Mayor. Except as set forth in §
30.02(A), the Acting Mayor shall perform the duties and possess all the rights
and powers of the Mayor until a Mayor is elected at the next general municipal
election and has qualified.
      (2)   Alderperson. If the vacancy is in the Office of Alderperson, the
vacancy must be filled by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, as the case may be, in
accordance with §
30.24.
      (3)   Other elective office. If the vacancy is in any elective municipal
office other than Mayor or Alderperson, the Mayor or Acting Mayor, as the case
may be, must appoint a qualified person to hold the office until the office is
filled by election, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council, as
the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-43)
OFFICERS ESTABLISHED
§ 31.20 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Elected. The Clerk shall be elected at the same election as the Mayor
for a four-year term and shall serve until a successor is elected and has
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-66)
   (B)   Vacancy. Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of City Clerk, the
office shall be filled by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, for the remainder of the term. (See §§ 31.07 and 31.08.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-67)
   (C)   Publication of ordinances; Council minutes; records.
      (1)   Ordinances. The City Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by the
City Council and approved by the Mayor, imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment, or forfeiture or making any appropriation to be published or
printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the corporate
authorities, or be published at least once within 30 days after passage in one
or more newspapers published in the city.
      (2)   Minutes; records.
         (a)   Open meetings. The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
City Council and shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “The Journal of the
City Council,” a full and faithful record of its proceedings. The City Clerk
shall record and properly index, in a book kept for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the City Council, and at the foot of the record of each
ordinance so recorded, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the
passage, when published, and a memorandum of the publication of such ordinance.
         (b)   Closed meetings. The Clerk shall prepare and preserve the
minutes of closed meetings according to the provisions of the Closed Meetings
Act. At least twice a year, corporate authorities shall meet to review minutes
of all closed sessions and make a public statement as to whether there is still
a need to maintain such matters in confidence or whether minutes or portions of
minutes from closed meetings no longer require confidential treatment and are
available for public inspection.
      (3)   Bonds. The Clerk shall also record in proper books for the purpose,
all official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was
entered of record and the book and pages where recorded.
      (4)   Issue notices. The Clerk shall issue and cause to be served upon
all Alderpersons notices of all special meetings of the City Council and also
notices to the members of the different committees of that body and all persons
whose attendance may be required before any such committee, when so directed by
the Chairperson thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-68)
   (D)   Delivery of papers to officers. The Clerk shall deliver to the several
committees of the City Council and to the officers of this city all petitions,
communications, reports, and resolutions, orders, claims, and other papers
referred to those committees or officers by the Council on demand therefor. The
Clerk shall also, without delay, deliver to the Mayor, all ordinances or
resolutions, orders, and claims in his or her charge which may require to be
approved or otherwise acted upon by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-69)
   (E)   Preparation of documents, commissions, and licenses. The Clerk shall
prepare all commissions, licenses, permits, and other official documents
required to be issued by him or her under this code and shall attest the same
with the corporate seal, and the Clerk shall, in like manner, attest all deeds
for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-70)
   (F)   City licenses. In all cases where the city requires a license to be
obtained for the purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or
occupation and the licensee is required to obtain plates, tags, or stickers
from the Clerk, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to provide such plates, tags,
or stickers to the person paying the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-71)
   (G)   Report of licenses. The Clerk shall report to the City Council at its
regular meeting each month and more often, if the Council so requires, the data
contained in the license register with respect to licenses issued during the
previous month.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-72)
   (H)   Administration of oaths. The Clerk shall have the power to administer
oaths or affirmations for all lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-73)
   (I)   Outstanding bonds. The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book
or books kept expressly for that purpose a correct list of all the outstanding
bonds of the city, showing the number and amount of each and for and to whom
the bonds are issued, and when the city bonds are issued or purchased or paid
or cancelled, the book or books shall show that fact; in the annual report, the
Clerk shall describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms
of sale with each and every item of expense thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-74)
   (J)   Reports. The Clerk shall, on or before the regular meeting in each
month, make out and submit to the City Council a statement or report, in
writing, of all the monies received and warrants drawn during the preceding
month, showing therein from or what sources and on what account monies were
received and for what purposes and on what account the warrants were drawn or
paid.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-75)
   (K)   Successor. The City Clerk shall carefully preserve all books, records,
papers, maps, and effects of every detail and description belonging to the city
or pertaining to the office and not in actual use and possession of other city
officers; upon the expiration of his or her official term, the Clerk shall
deliver all such books, records, papers, and effects to the successor in
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-76)
   (L)   Payments. The Clerk shall prepare monthly an itemized list of all
monies received and shall deliver a copy of the same to the City Treasurer and
shall also pay over to the Treasurer all monies received in the office and take
a receipt therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-77)
   (M)   Notification to persons appointed to office. Within five days after an
appointment is made, the Clerk shall notify all persons appointed to office of
their appointment. The office becomes vacant unless the person appointed
qualifies within ten days after such notice.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-78)
   (N)   Other duties. In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall
perform all such other duties pertaining to the office as are or may be imposed
upon the office by law or resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-79)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.06(c), 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-
15-20, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110, and 65
ILCS 5/12-5
§ 31.21 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk, when authorized by the City Council, may appoint the
Deputy Clerk, who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of the city
thereto, whenever required. In signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall
sign the name of the City Clerk followed with the word “by” and the Deputy
Clerk’s name and the words “Deputy Clerk.”
   (B)   The powers and duties herein described shall be executed by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the City Clerk from the City Clerk’s office
in the City Hall and only when either written direction has been given by the
City Clerk to such Deputy Clerk to exercise such power or the City Council has
determined, by resolution, that the City Clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such functions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-80)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45, and 65 ILCS
5/3.1-35-95
§ 31.22 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Department established. There is hereby established a department of
the municipal government of the city which shall be known as the Finance
Department. It shall embrace the Finance Committee and the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-82)
   (B)   Finance Committee. The Standing Committee on Finance shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall
ascertain the condition and needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the
same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full understanding thereof shall
be had; and, generally, shall do all the acts necessary to promote the
efficiency of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-83)
   (C)   Treasurer elected; vacancy. The Treasurer shall be elected at the same
election as the Mayor for a four-year term and shall serve until a successor is
elected and has qualified. All vacancies shall be filled in the manner
prescribed in §§
31.07 and
31.08. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-84)
   (D)   Money; warrants; accounts; payments.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to this city
and shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City
Clerk and not otherwise and shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall give to every person paying money into the City
Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment and upon what
account paid and shall file copies of such receipts with the Clerk with the
monthly reports. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-85)
   (E)   Warrant register. The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants
redeemed and paid, showing the number, date, and amount of each; the fund from
which paid; and the name of the person to whom and when paid, and the Treasurer
shall cancel all warrants as soon as they are redeemed. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-
40 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-86)
   (F)   Personal use of funds. The City Treasurer shall keep all money
belonging to the municipality and in the Treasurer’s custody separate and
distinct from the Treasurer’s own money and shall not use, either directly or
indirectly, the municipality’s monies or warrants for the personal use and
benefit of the Treasurer or of any other person. Any violation of this
provision shall subject the Treasurer to immediate removal from office by the
corporate authorities who may declare the Treasurer’s office vacant. (See 65
ILCS 5/3.1-35-55.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-87)
   (G)   Bond. The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his or her duties and to indemnify the city for any loss due to
neglect of duty or wrongful act on his or her part; and the amount of such bond
shall not be less than 10% of the highest amount of taxes and special
assessments received by the Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding
five fiscal years nor less than one and one-half times the largest amount which
the Council estimates will be in his or her custody at any one time nor less
than three times the number of residents of the city, as determined by the last
Federal Census. Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk, as required by
statute. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-88)
   (H)   Special assessments. The Treasurer shall collect all payments on
special assessments and shall see to it that the same are properly recorded and
credited to the particular account entitled thereto. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-89)
   (I)   Bookkeeping. The Treasurer shall keep the books and accounts in such a
manner as to show with accuracy, all monies received and disbursed for the
city, stating from whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what
account paid out and in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily
investigated and understood, and the books and accounts and all files and
papers of the office shall be, at all times, open to examination by the Mayor
or the Finance Committee of the Council. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-90)
   (J)   Statements. The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at
the regular monthly meeting a full and detailed account of all receipts and
expenditures of the municipality, as shown by his or her books up to the time
of the report. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-91)
   (K)   Report delinquent officers. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to
report to the City Clerk any officer of the city authorized to receive money
for the use of the city who may fail to make a return of the monies received by
the Treasurer at the time required by law or by ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-92)
   (L)   Year-end report.
      (1)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Treasurer
shall prepare and file annually with the City Clerk an account of monies
received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year, as
specified in division (L)(2) below.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall show the following in such account:
         (a)   All monies received by the city, indicating the total amounts in
the aggregate received in each account of the city, with a general statement
concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the purposes of
this division (L)(2)(a), the term ACCOUNT shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user, or such other persons
whose payments to the city are credited to the general account;
         (b)   Except as provided in division (L)(2)(a) above, all monies paid
out by the city where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds
$2,500, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid, and
the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
         (c)   All monies paid out by the city as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid,
and the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
and
         (d)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account
groups of the city as excerpted from the annual financial report, as filed with
the appropriate agency of the state.
      (3)   Upon receipt of such account from the City Treasurer, the City
Clerk shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers
published in the city. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65.)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall file a copy of the report with the County
Treasurer, as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-93)
   (M)   Submit appropriation to City Council.
      (1)   The Treasurer shall, on or before May 15 in each year, and before
the annual appropriations to be made by the City Council, submit to the City
Council a report of the estimates as nearly as may be of monies necessary to
defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal year. The
Treasurer shall, in said report, classify the different objects and branches of
expenditures, giving as nearly as may be the amount required for each; for the
purpose of making such a report, the Treasurer is hereby authorized to require
of all officers their statement of the condition and expenses of their
respective offices or departments with any proposed improvements, and the
probable expense thereof, all contracts made and unfinished and the amount of
any and all unexpended appropriations of the preceding year.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall, in such report, show the aggregate income of
the preceding fiscal year from all sources, the amount of liabilities
outstanding upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable
during the year, when due and when payable, and, in such report, shall give
such other information to the City Council as he or she may deem necessary to
the end that the City Council may fully understand the money exigencies and
demands upon the corporation for the current year. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-94)
   (N)   Deposit of funds.
      (1)   The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all funds and monies in
his or her custody belonging to the city in such places of deposit as have been
designated by division (N)(6) below. When requested by the Treasurer, the
corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which may be kept the
funds and monies of the city in the custody of the Treasurer. When a bank or
savings and loan association has been designated as a depository, it shall
continue as such depository until ten days have elapsed after a new depository
is designated and has qualified by furnishing the statements of resources and
liabilities as required by this division (N). When a new depository is
designated, the corporate authorities shall notify the sureties of the City
Treasurer of that fact, in writing, at least five days before the transfer of
funds. The Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds or
money that the Treasurer deposits in a designated bank or savings and loan
association while the funds and money are so deposited.
      (2)   The City Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan
association to deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages that have a
market value at least equal to the amount of the funds or monies of the
municipality deposited with the bank or savings and loan association that
exceeds the insurance limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.
      (3)   The City Treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or
indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment, or
withdrawal of municipal funds.
      (4)   Each City Treasurer may:
         (a)   Combine monies from more than one fund of a single municipality
for the purpose of investing those funds; and
         (b)   1.   Join with other Municipal Treasurers or municipalities for
the purpose of investing the municipal funds of which the Treasurer has
custody. Joint investments shall be made only in investments authorized by law
for the investment of municipal funds.
            2.   When monies of more than one fund of a single municipality or
monies of more than one municipality are combined for investment purposes, the
monies combined for that purpose shall be accounted for separately in all
respects and the earnings from investments shall be separately and individually
computed, recorded, and credited to the fund or municipality, as the case may
be, for which the investment was acquired.
      (5)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds
as permitted by this division (N), unless it has complied with the requirements
established by § 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50
and 30 ILCS 235/6.)
      (6)   The following bank(s) are herewith designated as places of deposit
where the Treasurer of the city is required to keep all funds and monies in his
or her custody belonging to this municipality:
         (a)   The First Southern Trust Bank; and
         (b)   Illinois State Treasurer’s Investment Pool.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-95)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 30 ILCS 235/6, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-
30-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50, 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-35-55, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85, and
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115
§ 31.23 JUDICIARY.
   (A)   Appointment of attorney. The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor,
by and with the advice and consent of the City Council for the term of one
year, unless sooner removed for cause, and until a successor shall have been
appointed and qualified. The Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs
of the city and shall be known as the City Attorney and shall receive
reasonable fees for services rendered when, in his or her judgment or in the
judgment of the Mayor or City Council, the same are necessary or are for the
best interests of the city. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-98)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   Prosecute for city. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend on
behalf of the city in all cases in which the interests of the corporation or
any officer thereof are involved, and the City Clerk shall furnish him or her
with certified copies of any ordinance, bond, or paper in keeping necessary to
be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
      (2)   Preparation of ordinances. The Attorney shall, when required,
advise the City Council or any officer in all matters of law in which the
interests of the corporation are involved and shall draw such ordinances,
bonds, forms, and contracts or examine and pass upon the same, as may be
required by the Mayor, the City Council, or any committee thereof.
      (3)   Judgments. The Attorney shall direct executions to be issued upon
all judgments recovered in favor of the city and shall direct their prompt
service. The Attorney shall examine all the bills of the officers of courts and
of other officers of the law and shall certify to their correctness and the
liability of the city therefor.
      (4)   Violations of ordinances. The Attorney shall institute and
prosecute an action in every case of violation of a city ordinance when
instructed to do so by the Mayor or the City Council.
      (5)   Prosecution of suits. The Attorney shall not be required to
prosecute any suit or action arising under the ordinances of the city when,
upon investigation of the same, the Attorney shall become satisfied that the
complaint was instituted maliciously, vexatiously, or without just cause and
shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he
or she may deem just or equitable.
      (6)   Commissions. The City Attorney shall act as the legal advisory for
the utilities systems, for the Plan Commission, for the Zoning Board of
Appeals, and for all other boards and commissions hereafter established by the
City Council. The Attorney shall perform all legal services as may be required
for those boards and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-99)
   (C)   Prosecutor’s fee.
      (1)   For each complaint that is prosecuted on behalf of the city to
enforce the provisions of general ordinances of the city and also to enforce
provisions of state statutes and statutes affecting the affairs of the city,
there shall be added as costs to be assessed against the defendant in each case
the sum of $25 to be known as the “City Prosecutor’s fee.”
      (2)   Upon said defendant being found guilty of the charges, as set up in
the complaint that is filed on behalf of the city, in any of the two above-
named situations, it shall be the duty of the court before whom such matter is
heard to assess a City Prosecutor’s fee in the sum of $25, which shall be paid
directly to the Prosecutor by the Clerk of the Circuit Court, and the fine or
penalty, as assessed by the court for the violation of the complaint, shall be
paid to the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-100)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.24 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   Appointment. With the advice and consent of the City Council, the
Mayor may appoint an engineer for the City, who shall serve for the term of the
Mayor or for such period not exceeding the term of the Mayor, as may be
designated by the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-104)
   (B)   Duties; salary. The City Engineer shall make and submit plans,
estimates, and specifications for any public work which may be proposed or
ordered by the City Council. The Engineer shall also examine all public works
under his or her charge and see that the plans, estimates, and specifications
for the same are properly executed. The Engineer shall receive reasonable
compensation for his or her services and the same will be provided for in the
annual appropriation ordinance on an estimated basis.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.25 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the Office of Superintendent
of Public Works, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council, for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-108)
   (B)   Authority. The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of and
be responsible for:
      (1)   The operation and maintenance of the municipal water and sewer
distribution systems, as otherwise provided in this code;
      (2)   The construction and care of all public streets, alleys, and
driveways in the city;
      (3)   The cleaning and safekeeping of all public streets, alleys, and
driveways;
      (4)   The construction, repair, and maintenance of all gutters and drains
located within or upon public streets, alleys, and driveways and elsewhere by
easement or right-of-way, ensuring that the same are kept free from defects;
      (5)   Supervise the lighting of public streets and alleys;
      (6)   Such other duties and responsibilities as may be otherwise defined
in other chapters of this code; and
      (7)   Take custody of all city property which is not otherwise assigned
to the care and custody of any other city officer or official.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-109)
   (C)   Department employees. All officers or employees assigned to the
Department of Public Works shall perform their duties subject to the directions
and under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-110)
   (D)   Property custodian. The Superintendent of Public Works shall be the
custodian of all city property which is not assigned to the care or custody of
any other city officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.26 CITY COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established an executive office in the
city known as the City Collector.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-115)
   (B)   Appointment. The City Collector shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, at the annual meeting in May for a
term of one year, and that person shall be the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-116)
   (C)   Duties. The City Collector shall prepare monthly utility bills, send
out statements, and receive collections for the same and perform any similar
functions necessary for the proper execution of said office so designated by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-117)
   (D)   Salary. The City Collector shall receive reasonable compensation for
his or her services, and the same shall be provided for in the annual
appropriation ordinance on an estimated basis that may be an hourly pay.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-118)
§ 31.27 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The following salaries are hereby established for elected city
officials.
      (1)   Mayor. The Mayor shall receive $500 per year.
      (2)   Alderpersons. Each Alderperson shall receive $400 per year.
      (3)   Clerk. The Clerk shall receive $400 per year.
      (4)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall receive $500 per year.
   (B)   (1)   The salaries of elected officials who hold elective office for a
definite term shall neither be increased nor diminished during that term and
shall be fixed at least 180 days before the beginning of the terms of the
officers whose compensation is to be filed.
      (2)   The ordinance fixing compensation for members of the corporate
authorities shall specify whether those members are to be compensated at an
annual rate or for each meeting of the corporate authorities actually attended,
if public notice of the meeting was given.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10, and 65 ILCS
5/3.1-50-15
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 31.40 RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   Participation. The City Council does hereby authorize and approve
membership in the State Municipal League Risk Management Association and
directs the Mayor and Clerk to execute an Intergovernmental Cooperation
Contract with the State Municipal League Risk Management Association for
membership for a period of one year beginning the date the Association
commences providing risk coverage to its members and each year thereafter,
unless this section is repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Contribution. Each member hereby agrees to contribute to the
Association a sum of money to be determined by the Association at the time of
application based on the needs of the Association and the loss experience of
the member, which sum shall constitute the cost of the member’s first year
contribution for membership in the Association. Membership contributions for
second and subsequent years shall be calculated in accordance with the loss
experience of the city, and the needs of the Association including total losses
and expenditures of the Self-Insured Retention Fund of the Association.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 31.41 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   The city shall only reimburse travel, meal, and lodging expenses
incurred by its Alderpersons and Mayor for public business by roll-call vote at
an open meeting of the City Council.
   (C)   The city shall only reimburse travel, meal, and lodging expenses
incurred by its employees and officers (other than Alderpersons and Mayor) for
public business up to a maximum of $250 per individual per year. Expenses for
travel, meals, and lodging of exceeding $250 per individual per year may only
be approved by roll-call vote at an open meeting of the City Council.
   (D)   (1)   No reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging expenses incurred
shall be authorized unless the “Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement
Request Form” in Addendum “C” of the provisions herein codified, made a part
hereof by reference, has been submitted. Travel, meal, and lodging expenses for
employees and officials other than Alderpersons or the Mayor shall be pre-
approved by the Mayor before the expense is incurred.
      (2)   All documents and information submitted with the form shall be
subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et
seq.).
   (E)   (1)   The city shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or
officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment.
      (2)   Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but
which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary
to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with
the provisions of this section. Alcohol shall be excluded from reimbursement.
   (F)   Meal expense reimbursement shall be calculated using the per diem
rates on www.gsa.gov.
   (G)   The Mayor shall have authority and discretion to approve or deny
requests for travel, meal, and lodging expense reimbursement for employees and
officers, other than Alderpersons or the Mayor, up to the amount allowed in
division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 31.42 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the city, eligible
under the Federal Act, except persons elected to office by popular election and
also the City Treasurer and City Attorney.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations and shall be paid quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-33)
§ 31.43 SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER POLICY ADOPTED.
   For the security of city employees, the city does hereby adopt a Social
Security Number Policy by reference, as if established and set forth in full
herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article II)
§ 31.44 ETHICS CODE ADOPTED.
   The regulations of 5 ILCS 430/5-15 and 5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40 of the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the
city to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5, and all other ethics provisions
set forth and adopted by the city are herein adopted by reference, as if set
out in full.
(Prior Code, § 22-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., 5 ILCS 430/5-15, 5 ILCS 430/
10-10 through 10-40, and 5 ILCS 430/70-5
§ 31.45 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the Equal Employment Policy by reference, as if set
forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article VII)
§ 31.46 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the Drug-Free Workplace Policy by reference, as if
set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article VIII)
§ 31.47 DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city is committed to maintaining a drug-free workplace pursuant to
the Federal and State Drug-Free Workplace Acts, 41 U.S.C.A. §§ 701 et seq. and
30 ILCS 580/1 et seq. It is the policy of the city that the public has the
reasonable right to expect persons employed by the city to be free from the
effects of alcohol and drugs. The city, as the employer, has the right to
expect its employees to report for work fit and able for duty.
   (B)   The policy adopted herein is intended to ensure that city employees
are not impaired in their ability to perform assigned duties in a safe,
healthy, and productive manner and to protect any such employee and the public
from the risks associated with the adverse effects of drugs and alcohol.
Accordingly, the unlawful manufacture, distribution, possession, or use of a
controlled substance, including cannabis and alcohol, is prohibited in the
workplace or while acting on behalf of the city.
   (C)   Employees are required to sign a release and consent/authorization
form, a copy of which is included with the policy adopted herein, at the time
the policy is distributed to the employee. Therefore, the city adopts the Drug
and Alcohol Testing Policy by reference, as if set forth herein in full.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article IX)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 30 ILCS 580/1 et seq.
§ 31.48 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the Sexual Harassment Policy, including the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 and the State Human Rights Act and other provisions the city
has established, by reference, as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article X)
§ 31.49 ANTI-BULLYING POLICY ADOPTED.
   To promote a safe, productive work environment, the city hereby adopts an
Anti-Bully Policy by reference, as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article XI)
§ 31.50 DOMESTIC AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE POLICY ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the State Victims’ Economic Security and Safety Act (VESSA), the
city hereby adopts the Domestic and Sexual Violence Policy by reference, as if
set forth in full.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article XII)
§ 31.51 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY ADOPTED.
   The city hereby establishes and adopts the Social Media Policy for city
employees by reference, as set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article XIII)
§ 31.52 PAID LEAVE POLICY ADOPTED.
   In accordance with Ordinance 24-04, the city hereby adopts by reference, as
if set forth herein in full, a policy for paid leave for city employees.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY; POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Assisting police; aiding in escape
   
32.02   Stolen property
Police Department; Rules for Police Personnel
   
32.15   Established
   
32.16   Mutual aid contract
   
32.17   Chief
   
32.18   Patrolpersons appointed; part-time police
   
32.19   Training
   
32.20   Salary
   
32.21   Duties
   
32.22   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
32.23   Legal process; witness fees
   
32.24   Failure to perform
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ASSISTING POLICE; AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   (A)   Assisting police officer. Every police officer of the city may, at any
time, call upon any able-bodied person(s) above the age of 18 years to aid him
or her in the arresting, retaking, or holding in custody of any person guilty
of having committed any unlawful act or charged therewith or to aid such
officer in preventing the commission of any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-10)
   (B)   Aiding in escape. It shall be unlawful for any person in this city to
resist or obstruct any member of the police force in the discharge of his or
her duty or to endeavor to do so, in any manner; assist any person in the
custody of any member of the Police Department to escape; or to attempt to
escape from such custody or to attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-13)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.02 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-18)
POLICE DEPARTMENT; RULES FOR POLICE PERSONNEL
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government which
shall be known as the Police Department. The Police Department shall consist of
the Chief of Police and of such number of patrolpersons as may be provided from
time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 32.16 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The Police Department, with the approval of the City Council, may enter into
an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 32.17 CHIEF.
   (A)   Office of Chief created. There is hereby established the Office of the
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council, for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-2)
   (B)   Duties of Chief. The Chief of Police shall keep records and make
reports concerning the activities of his or her department as may be required.
The Chief shall be responsible for the performance of the Police Department and
of all its functions, and all persons who are members of the Department shall
serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-3)
   (C)   Rules and regulations. The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such
rules and regulations for the conduct and guidance of the members of the Police
Department as he or she shall deem advisable, and such rules, when approved by
the Mayor, shall be binding on such members.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 32.18 PATROLPERSONS APPOINTED; PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment of patrolpersons. Unless otherwise provided, all
patrolpersons shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council. A police officer may be appointed to office by the
Mayor and City Council if he or she meets the necessary qualifications,
notwithstanding the fact that the police officer is not a resident of the city
when appointed or when he or she is to serve as such an official.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-4)
   (B)   Special police officers. The Mayor may, on special occasions (when in
his or her judgment for public peace and order of the city shall require),
appoint and commission any number of special police officers as may be
necessary and shall fix, in order of their appointment, the time during which
each shall serve. All such special police officers, during such time, shall
possess the powers and exercise the duties of regular police patrolpersons;
provided, their appointment, if for more than ten days, shall be subject to the
consent of the City Council in the manner that other appointments to office by
the Mayor are subject. Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms,
except with the permission of the Chief of Police and, then, only when in
uniform and in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-8)
   (C)   Part-time police.
      (1)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deems necessary.
      (2)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the general orders of the Police Department, but the number of
hours a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted to
1,000 hours. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full-time police officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the State Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the
rules and requirements of the State Law Enforcement Training and Standards
Board.
      (3)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound
health, and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
         (b)   Be at least 21 years of age;
         (c)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
         (d)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
         (e)   Possess no prior felony convictions;
         (f)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have
been honorably discharged; and
         (g)   Pass a medical examination.
      (4)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq., 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20, and 65
ILCS 5/11-1-2
§ 32.19 TRAINING.
   (A)   All police officers, prior to entering upon any of their duties, shall
receive a course of training in the use of weapons by proper authorities, as
established by the state.
   (B)   All full-time and part-time officers shall complete a course on police
procedures by the proper authorities, as established by the State Law
Enforcement Training and Standards Board, within the prescribed time period, as
established by such Board.
   (C)   Upon completion of the course of training, the officer shall file with
the Mayor a certificate attesting to the completion of the course.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 32.20 SALARY.
   The Police Department shall receive such compensation as may be provided by
ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 32.21 DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The police officer shall devote his or her entire time to the
performance of the duties of his or her office and is hereby charged with the
preservation of the peace, order, and safety of the city and with the duty of
protecting the rights of persons and property and of enforcing all laws and,
also, all orders of the City Council. He or she shall take notice of all
nuisances, obstructions, and defects on the highways or other public places and
shall cause the same to be abated or removed or immediate notice thereof given
to the proper officer whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto.
      (2)   When requested by the Mayor, he or she shall attend, either in
person or by deputy, all meetings of the City Council, execute all its orders,
and close the Council Chamber upon the adjournment of that body. He or she
shall also execute all warrants or other legal process required to be executed
by him or her under any ordinance of the city or laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-6)
   (B)   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm
in case of fire and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate
vicinity of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or
obstructed in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 32.22 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on an active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the city shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor of
any kind, and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for removal.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.23 LEGAL PROCESS; WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Legal processes. All police shall have the power and authority to
execute city warrants or other similar legal processes outside the corporate
limits of the city and within such distance therefrom as authorized by law in
all cases when any ordinance of the City Council made pursuant to law shall
prescribe a penalty for the violation of any of its provisions by persons
residing, acting, or doing any business within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-9)
   (B)   Witness fees. Any member of the Police Department shall appear as
witness whenever this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an
ordinance or of any state or federal law. No such member shall retain any
witness fee for service as witness in any action or suit to which the city is a
party; and fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the Chief of
Police, who shall deposit the same with the City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-15)
§ 32.24 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by this code or the rules and regulations of
the Department or who shall be, in the discharge of his or her official duties,
guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions, or willful wrong or
injustice shall be subject to removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-12)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCIES; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
Section
Civil Emergencies
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Declaration of emergency
   
33.03   Curfew
   
33.04   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
33.05   Effectiveness; notification
Emergency Management Agency
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Policy and procedures; limitations; immunity
   
33.22   Emergency Management Agency created
   
33.23   Emergency management powers of Mayor; succession
   
33.24   Local disaster emergencies
   
33.25   Mutual aid agreements
   
33.26   Communications
   
33.27   Orders, rules, and regulations
   
33.28   Existing agencies and personnel
   
33.29   No private liability
   
33.30   Professions, trades, and occupations
   
33.31   Personnel oath
   
33.32   Finances, appropriations, and the like
   
33.33   Compensation
   
33.34   Testing disaster warning devices
   
33.35   Termination of electrical service
 
   
33.99   Penalty
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons acting
together without authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity (including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion) within the corporate
limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city excepting
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to the civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 33.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency, as defined in §
33.01, exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 33.03 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to the city
as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable during such hours of the
day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety
and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 33.04 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores (including taverns and
private clubs) or portions thereof, wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away of
gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; or
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 33.05 EFFECTIVENESS; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Effectiveness. The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective
for a period of 48 hours, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the
Mayor indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall
have the power to re-proclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of
each 48-hour period during the time the civil emergency exists.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-5)
   (B)   Notification. Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the
Mayor shall notify the news media situated within the city and shall cause
three copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be
posted at the following places within the city:
      (1)   The City Hall;
      (2)   The Post Office;
      (3)   City website; and
      (4)   Mini-mart.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The staff assistant to the Mayor with the duty of carrying out
the requirements of this code.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made cause
(including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill, or other water contamination) requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, explosion, critical
shortages of essential fuels and energy, riot, or hostile military or
paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of this municipality to develop, plan,
analyze, conduct, implement, and maintain programs for disaster mitigation.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The written plan of the municipality describing
the organization, mission, and functions of the government and supporting
services for responding to and recovery from disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES.
      (1)   The preparation for and the carrying out of such functions, other
than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, as may be
necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury and
damage resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, earthquake, or other
human-made or natural causes.
      (2)   These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency aviation services, medical and health services,
rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological and
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
areas, emergency assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration
of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian protection
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to protecting life
or property.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any county, city, village, or incorporated town.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-3)
§ 33.21 POLICY AND PROCEDURES; LIMITATIONS; IMMUNITY.
   (A)   Policy and procedures.
      (1)   Because of the possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from the explosion in this or
in a neighboring municipality of atomic or other means from without or by means
of sabotage or other disloyal actions within or from fire, flood, earthquake,
or other natural or human-made causes and in order to ensure that this
municipality will be prepared to and will adequately deal with any such
disasters, preserve the lives and property of the people of this municipality,
and protect the public peace, health, and safety in the event of such a
disaster, it is found and declared to be necessary:
         (a)   To create a Municipal Emergency Management Agency;
         (b)   To confer upon the Mayor the extraordinary power and authority
set forth under §§
33.01 through
33.05; and
         (c)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid to other cities and
political subdivisions with respect to the carrying out of emergency management
operations.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever the Mayor determines, after an investigation, that a
dangerous situation or a potentially dangerous situation exists which could
cause death to individuals or serious injury to property or the health and
welfare of public, the Mayor may declare that a state of emergency exists.
         (b)   The extraordinary powers may not be exercised until an ordinance
shall have been adopted which shall establish standards for the determination
by the Mayor of when the state of emergency exists and shall provide that the
Mayor may not exercise such extraordinary power and authority, except after
signing, under oath, a statement finding that such standards have been met,
setting forth facts to substantiate such findings, describing the nature of the
emergency, and declaring that a state of emergency exists. This statement shall
be filed with the Clerk of the municipality as soon as practical.
         (c)   A state of emergency shall expire not later than the adjournment
of the first regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the state of
emergency is declared. A subsequent state of emergency may be declared if
necessary.
      (3)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this code and the
policy of the municipality that all emergency management programs of this
municipality be coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions
of the federal and state governments, including their various departments and
agencies of other municipalities and localities, and private agencies of every
type, to the end that the most effective preparation and use may be made of the
nation’s manpower, resources, and facilities for dealing with any disaster that
may occur.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-1)
   (B)   Limitations. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to:
      (1)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute,
except that actions otherwise authorized herein or other laws may be taken when
necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health
or safety;
      (2)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs,
but any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services, and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster;
      (3)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty, but state and local emergency
operations plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for performance
of functions related to disaster emergencies; and
      (4)   Limit, modify, or abridge the authority of the Mayor and the City
Council to exercise any other powers vested in them under the constitution,
statutes, or common law of this state, independent of or in conjunction with
any provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-2)
   (C)   Immunity.
      (1)   Neither the municipality, the agency, or any member thereof or any
person acting at its direction engaged in any emergency management operations
or disaster activities, while complying with or attempting to comply with this
subchapter or any rule or regulations promulgated pursuant to this subchapter,
is liable for the death of or any injury to persons or damage to property as a
result of such activity.
      (2)   This section does not, however, affect the right of any person to
receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise be entitled under this act
under the Worker’s Compensation Act or the Worker’s Occupational Diseases Act
or under any pension law, and this section does not affect the right of any
such person to receive any benefits or compensation under any Act of Congress.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-16
§ 33.22 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Emergency Management Agency and a
Coordinator of the emergency management agency, herein called the
“Coordinator,” who shall be the head thereof. The Coordinator shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board. He or she
shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Agency shall obtain, with Board approval,
such technical, clerical, stenographic, and other administrative personnel and
may make such expenditures within its appropriation therefor as may be
necessary to carry out the purpose of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Coordinator, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor,
shall be the executive head of the Municipal Emergency Management Agency and
shall be responsible under the direction of the Mayor for carrying out the
program for emergency management operations of this municipality. He or she
shall coordinate the activities of all organizations for emergency management
operations within this municipality and shall maintain liaison and cooperate
with the civil defense and emergency management agencies and organization of
the county other counties and municipalities and of the federal and state
government. In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to
serve by the Coordinator, the Mayor, or any persons designated by him or her
shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in
this subchapter.
   (D)   The Municipal Emergency Management Agency shall take an integral part
in the development and revision of the Local Emergency Operations Plan.
   (E)   In the development of the Emergency Operations Plan, the Municipal
Emergency Management Agency shall interrelate with business, labor, industry,
agriculture, civic, and volunteer organizations and community leaders.
   (F)   The Municipal Emergency Management Agency shall:
      (1)   Determine the requirements of the municipality for food, clothing,
and other necessities in the event of an emergency;
      (2)   Develop an Emergency Operations Plan that meets the standards
promulgated by the State Emergency Management Agency;
      (3)   Biannually review and revise the local Emergency Operations Plan;
      (4)   Establish a register of persons with types of training and skills
in emergency prevention, preparedness, response, and recovery;
      (5)   Establish a register of government and private response resources
available for use in a disaster;
      (6)   Prepare for issuance by the Mayor of ordinances, proclamations, and
regulations as necessary or appropriate in coping with disasters;
      (7)   Cooperate with the federal, state, and county government and any
public or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this subchapter
and in implementing programs for disaster prevention, preparation, response,
and recovery;
      (8)   Initiate and coordinate planning for:
         (a)   The establishment of an Emergency Operating Center; and
         (b)   The implementation of a 9-1-1 system.
      (9)   Do all other things necessary, incidental, or appropriate for the
implementation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-4)
§ 33.23 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT POWERS OF MAYOR; SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Emergency management powers of the Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor shall have the general direction and control of the
Emergency Management Agency and shall be responsible for the carrying out of
the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   In performing his or her duties under this subchapter, the Mayor is
authorized to cooperate with state and federal governments and with other
municipalities and political subdivisions in all matters pertaining to
emergency management operations defined in this subchapter.
      (3)   In performing his or her duties under this subchapter, the Mayor is
further authorized:
         (a)   To make, amend, and rescind all lawful and necessary orders,
rules, and regulations of the Local Disaster Plan to carry out the provisions
of this subchapter within the limits of the authority conferred upon him or
her;
         (b)   To cause to be prepared a Comprehensive Plan and Program for the
emergency management of this municipality, which plan and program shall be
integrated into and coordinated with disaster plans of the state and federal
governments and other political subdivisions and which plan and program may
include:
            1.   Prevention and minimization of injury and damage caused by
disaster;
            2.   Prompt and effective response to disaster;
            3.   Emergency relief;
            4.   Identification of areas particularly vulnerable to disasters;
            5.   Recommendations for zoning, building, and other land-use
controls, safety, measures for securing permanent structures and other
preventive and preparedness measures designed to eliminate or reduce disasters
or their impact;
            6.   Assistance to local officials in designing local emergency
action plans;
            7.   Authorization and procedures for the erection or other
construction of temporary works designed to protect against or mitigate danger,
damage, or loss from flood, conflagration, or other disaster;
            8.   Organization of municipal manpower and chains of command;
            9.   Coordination of local emergency management activities; and
            10.   Other necessary matters.
         (c)   In accordance with such plan and program for the emergency
management of this municipality and out of funds appropriated for such
purposes, to procure and preposition supplies, medicines, materials, and
equipment to institute training programs and public information programs, and
to take all other preparatory steps, including the partial or full mobilization
of emergency management organizations in advance of actual disaster to ensure
the furnishing of adequately trained and equipped forces for disaster
operations; and
         (d)   Out of funds appropriated for such purposes, to make such
studies and surveys of the industries, resources, and facilities in this
municipality as may be necessary to ascertain the capabilities
of the municipality for the emergency management phases of preparedness,
response, and recovery and to plan for the most efficient emergency use
thereof.
      (4)   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a municipal building
or elsewhere for the Emergency Management Agency as its office.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-5)
   (B)   Succession. In the event of the death, absence from the municipality,
or other disability of the Mayor preventing him or her from acting under this
subchapter or for any other municipal purpose and until the office is filled in
the manner prescribed by law, the Coordinator of the Emergency Management
Agency shall succeed to the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-19)
§ 33.24 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local disaster emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or City
Council. If declared by the Mayor, it shall not be continued for a period in
excess of seven days except by or with the consent of the City Council. Any
order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local disaster
emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed
promptly with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster emergency is to
activate any and all applicable Local Emergency Operations Plans and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   During a local disaster emergency, the Mayor may suspend the
provisions of any municipal ordinance prescribing procedures for the conduct of
municipal business or the orders, rules, and regulations of any municipal
agency, if strict compliance with the provisions of any ordinance, rule, or
regulation would, in any way, prevent, hinder, or delay necessary action in
coping with the emergency, as authorized by the State Emergency Management
Agency Act; provided, if the City Council meets at such time, he or she shall
act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-7)
§ 33.25 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The Coordinator, for emergency management operations, may, in collaboration
with other public agencies within his or her immediate vicinity, develop or
cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements with other political
subdivisions, municipal corporations, or bodies politic within this state for
reciprocal disaster response and recovery in case a disaster is too great to be
dealt with unassisted. The mutual aid shall not, however, be effective unless
and until approved by each of such political subdivisions, municipal
corporations, or bodies politic as are parties thereto, in the manner provided
by law, and unless and until filed with and approved in writing by the State
Director. Such arrangements shall be consistent with the State and Local
Emergency Management Operations Plan and Program, and in the event of such
disaster, as described in §
33.20, it shall be the duty of each local and department for emergency
management operations to render assistance in accordance with the provisions of
such mutual aid arrangements.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-9)
§ 33.26 COMMUNICATIONS.
   The local Emergency Management Agency shall ascertain what means exist for
rapid and efficient communications in times of disaster emergencies. The agency
shall consider the desirability of supplementing these communications resources
or of integrating them into a comprehensive system or network. In studying the
character and feasibility of any system or its several parts, the agency shall
evaluate the possibility of multi-purpose use thereof for general municipal and
local governmental purposes. The agency shall make recommendations to the
Mayor, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-10)
§ 33.27 ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall file a copy of every rule, regulation, or order and
any amendment thereof made by him or her, pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, in the Office of the City Clerk. No such rule, regulation, or order
or any amendment thereof shall be effective until ten days after such filing;
provided, however, upon the declaration of such a disaster emergency by the
Mayor, as is described in §
33.24, the provision relating to the effective date of any rule, regulation,
order, or amendment issued pursuant to this subchapter and during the state of
such disaster emergency is abrogated, and said rule, regulation, order, or
amendment shall become effective immediately upon being filed with the City
Clerk, accompanied by a certificate stating the reason for the emergency.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Agency established pursuant to this
subchapter, and the Coordinator thereof, shall execute and enforce such orders,
rules, and regulations as may be made by the Governor under authority of the
State Emergency Management Agency Act. The Local Emergency Management Agency
shall have available for inspection at its office all orders, rules, and
regulations made by the Governor or under this authority. The State Emergency
Management Agency shall furnish such orders, rules, and regulations to the
agency.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-15)
§ 33.28 EXISTING AGENCIES AND PERSONNEL.
   In carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Mayor and the
Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency are directed to utilize the
services, equipment, supplies, and facilities of existing departments, offices,
and agencies of the municipality to the maximum extent practicable, and the
officers and personnel of all such departments, offices, and agencies are
directed, upon request, to cooperate with and extend such services and
facilities to the Coordinator and the Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-16)
§ 33.29 NO PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege or otherwise
permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of such real
estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual or
impending disaster or a mock or practice disaster response activity together
with his or her successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for
negligently causing the death of or injury to any person on or about such real
estate or premises under such license, privilege, or other permission or for
negligently causing loss of or damage to the property of such person.
   (B)   Any private person, firm, or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm, or corporation, in the performance of a contract with and
under the direction of the municipality under the provisions of this
subchapter, shall not be civilly liable for causing death of or injury to any
person or damage to any property except in the event of willful misconduct.
   (C)   (1)   Any private person, firm, or corporation and any employee or
agency of such person, firm, or corporation who renders assistance or advice at
the request of the municipality shall not be civilly liable for causing the
death of or injury to any person or damage to any property except in the event
of willful misconduct.
      (2)   The immunities provided in this division (C) shall not apply to any
private person, firm, or corporation or to any employee or agent of such
person, firm, or corporation whose act or omission caused in whole or in part
such actual or impending disaster and who would otherwise be liable therefor.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-18)
§ 33.30 PROFESSIONS, TRADES, AND OCCUPATIONS.
   If such disaster, as is described in §
33.20, occurs in this municipality and the services of persons who are
competent to practice any profession, trade, or occupation are required in this
municipality to cope with the disaster situation and it appears that the number
of persons licensed or registered in this municipality to practice such
profession, trade, or occupation may be insufficient for such purpose, then any
persons who are licensed elsewhere to practice any such profession, trade, or
occupation may, if a member of another political subdivision rendering aid in
this municipality, pursuant to the order of the head of that political
subdivision and upon the request of the municipality, or if otherwise requested
so to do by the Mayor or the Coordinator of this municipality during the time
the disaster condition continues, practice such profession, trade, or
occupation in this municipality without being licensed or registered in this
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-12)
§ 33.31 PERSONNEL OATH.
   Each person, whether compensated or non-compensated, who is appointed to
serve in any capacity in the Municipal Emergency Management Agency, shall,
before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath, in writing, before the
Coordinator of the Municipal Emergency Management Agency before a person
authorized to administer oaths in this municipality, which oath shall be filed
with the Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency and which oath shall be
substantially as follows:
      “I, _______, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the territory, institutions, and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time I am
affiliated with the City, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 30-3-21)
§ 33.32 FINANCES, APPROPRIATIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Financing.
      (1)   It is the intent of the City Council and declared to be the policy
of the municipality that every effort shall be made to provide funds for
disaster emergencies.
      (2)   It is the City Council’s intent that the first recourse shall be to
funds regularly appropriated to the agency. If the Mayor finds that the demands
placed upon these funds in coping with a particular disaster are unreasonably
great and the Governor has proclaimed the municipality a disaster, he or she
may make application for funds from the State Disaster Relief Fund. If monies
available from the Fund are insufficient and if the Mayor finds that other
sources of money to cope with the disaster are not available or are
insufficient, he or she shall issue a call for an immediate session of the City
Council for the purpose of enacting ordinances, as the City Council may deem
necessary, to transfer and expend monies appropriated for other purposes or
borrow monies from the United States government or other public or private
sources. If less than a quorum of the members of the City Council is capable of
convening in session to enact such ordinances for the transfer, expenditure, or
loan of such monies, the Mayor is authorized to carry out those decisions until
such time as a quorum of the City Council can convene.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit the
Mayor’s authority to apply for, administer, and expend grants, gifts, or
payments in aid of disaster prevention, preparedness, response, or recovery.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-6)
   (B)   Appropriations and levy of tax. The City Council may make
appropriations for emergency management operations in the manner provided by
law for making appropriations for the ordinary expenses of such political
subdivision. The City Council may also levy, for emergency management
operations, a tax not to exceed 0.05% of the full, fair cash value as equalized
or assessed by the Department of Revenue on all taxable property in the
municipality for the current year. However, the amount collectible under such a
levy shall in no event exceed $0.25 per capita. The annual tax shall be in
addition to and in excess of the amount authorized to be levied for general
corporate purposes.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-13)
   (C)   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants, or loans. Whenever the
federal or state governments or any agency or officer thereof or whenever any
person, firm, or corporation shall offer to the municipality services,
equipment, supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift or grant for purposes
of emergency management, the municipality, acting through the Mayor or through
its City Council, may accept such offer, and upon such acceptance, the Mayor or
the City Council may authorize any officer of the municipality to receive such
services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on behalf of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-14)
§ 33.33 COMPENSATION.
   The City Council, by its annual appropriations ordinance, may provide for
the payment of the salary of the Coordinator and such other office staff and
personnel as may be expressly provided for in the ordinance. Nothing herein
contained shall prohibit any member of the agency from receiving compensation
from the State Emergency Management Agency under any provisions of that agency.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-20)
§ 33.34 TESTING DISASTER WARNING DEVICES.
   The testing of disaster devices, including outdoor warning sirens, shall be
held only on the first Tuesday of each month at 10:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-8)
§ 33.35 TERMINATION OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   When, in the judgment of the Mayor or City Council, as provided herein in §
33.24(A), a local disaster emergency requires the termination or reduction of
electrical service, the Mayor or City Council shall forthwith declare, in
writing, the existence of the emergency condition and order the termination or
reduction.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-22)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §§
33.20 through
33.35 or any order thereunder shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine as
provided by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 30-3-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 34: FUNDS AND INVESTMENTS
Section
Investment Policy
   
34.01   Investment policy; scope; adoption; objective
   
34.02   Delegation of authority
   
34.03   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
34.04   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
34.05   Authorized, suitable investments
   
34.06   Collateralization; safekeeping and custody
   
34.07   Diversification and maximum maturities
   
34.08   Internal control
   
34.09   Performance standards and reporting
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 34.01 INVESTMENT POLICY; SCOPE; ADOPTION; OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   Investment policy. It is the policy of the city to invest public funds
in a manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming
to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-1)
   (B)   Scope. This policy includes all public funds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-2)
   (C)   Prudence.
      (1)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived.
      (2)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall
be the “prudent person standard” and shall be applied in the context of
managing an overall portfolio.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-3)
   (D)   Objective.
      (1)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
         (a)   Legality. Conformance with federal, state, and other legal
requirements;
         (b)   Safety. Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
         (c)   Liquidity. Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
         (d)   Yield. Attainment of market rates of return.
      (2)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its
effectiveness in meeting the city’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of
return, diversification, and its general performance.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-4)
   (E)   Investment policy adoption and modification. The investment policy has
been adopted by ordinance. The policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis by
the Treasurer, and any modifications made thereto shall be made by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-16)
§ 34.02 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer, who may establish written procedures for the
operation of the investment program.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-5)
§ 34.03 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program or that could impair their ability to make
impartial decisions.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-6)
§ 34.04 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of
approved security brokers/dealers selected by creditworthiness.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-7)
§ 34.05 AUTHORIZED, SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds. Investments shall be made
that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund type being invested.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-8)
§ 34.06 COLLATERALIZATION; SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Collateralization.
      (1)   Collateralization may be required, at the discretion of the city,
on all funds held in banks or savings and loans above the insured limits
provided by the FDIC or FSLIC.
      (2)   In order to anticipate market changes and provide a level of
security for all funds, the collateralization level will be a minimum of 102%
of market value of principal and accrued interest.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-9)
   (B)   Safekeeping and custody. All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the city shall be
conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent, third-party custodian designated by the Treasurer and evidenced
by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial agreement.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-10)
§ 34.07 DIVERSIFICATION AND MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   Diversification. The city shall diversify its investments to the best
of its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of
those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-11)
   (B)   Maximum maturities. To the extent possible, the city shall attempt to
match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched
to a specific cash flow, the city will not directly invest in securities
maturing more than two years from the date of purchase. Reserve funds may be
invested in securities exceeding two years if the maturity of such investments
are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the expected use of the
funds.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-12)
§ 34.08 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the city are
protected from loss, theft, or misuse. The internal control structure shall be
designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-13)
§ 34.09 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Performance standards. The investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to
benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity, and credit quality as the
portfolio maintained by the State Public Treasurer’s Investment Pool (IPTIP).
(Prior Code, § 22-5-14)
   (B)   Reporting. The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
monthly. The report should be provided to the City Council and available upon
request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report should also be provided to the City Council. A
statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the City
Council quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 22-5-15)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Corporate rate
   
35.02   General liability
Enumerated Taxes
   
35.15   Police Tax
   
35.16   Audit Tax
   
35.17   F.I.C.A. Tax
   
35.18   Library Tax
   
35.19   Garbage Tax
   
35.20   Worker’s compensation
   
35.21   Street and Bridge Tax
   
35.22   Gas Tax
Simplified Telecommunications Tax
   
35.35   Definitions
   
35.36   Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax imposed
   
35.37   Collection of tax by retailers
   
35.38   Returns to Department
   
35.39   Resellers
Taxpayer’s Rights Code
   
35.50   Title; scope; application
   
35.51   Definitions
   
35.52   Notices; payments
   
35.53   Credits and refunds
   
35.54   Audit procedures
   
35.55   Appeal; hearing
   
35.56   Interests and penalties; abatement; installment contracts
   
35.57   Statute of limitations
   
35.58   Voluntary disclosure
   
35.59   Publication of tax ordinances
   
35.60   Internal review procedure
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 CORPORATE RATE.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the city be and the same
is hereby established at a rate of 0.25%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1
§ 35.02 GENERAL LIABILITY.
   The City Council may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the city at
whatever rate is necessary to purchase general liability insurance for the
city.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-5)
ENUMERATED TAXES
§ 35.15 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the city be and the same
is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13
§ 35.16 AUDIT TAX.
   The City Council may levy a Municipal Auditing Tax upon all taxable property
in the city which will produce an amount which will equal the cost of all
auditing for the city.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-8-8
§ 35.17 F.I.C.A. TAX.
   The City Council may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the city at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the Federal Social Security
System.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.
§ 35.18 LIBRARY TAX.
   The maximum tax for library purposes shall be and the same is hereby
established at a rate of 0.15%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 ILCS 5/3-1 and 75 ILCS 5/3-4
§ 35.19 GARBAGE TAX.
   The maximum tax for garbage collection purposes shall be and the same is
hereby established at a rate of 0.20%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-19-4
§ 35.20 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   The maximum tax for Worker’s Compensation and Occupational Diseases Claims
purposes shall be and the same is hereby established at a rate to pay for legal
services, purchase insurance, purchase claim services, pay for judgments, and
settlements.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 745 ILCS 10/9-107
§ 35.21 STREET AND BRIDGE TAX.
   The maximum tax for Street and Bridge purposes shall be and the same is
hereby established at a rate of 0.06%.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-81-1 and 65 ILCS 5/11-81-2
§ 35.22 GAS TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      (1)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, and
furnishing; or
      (2)   Selling gas for use or consumption within city and not for resale,
at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-1)
   (B)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this section may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which such business may not, under the Constitution and Statutes
of the United States, be made subject to taxation by this state or any
political subdivision thereof nor shall any person engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this division (B) for such transactions as are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act, authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, nor shall any tax
authorized by this section be imposed upon any person engaged in the business
unless such tax is imposed in like manner and, at the same, rate upon all
persons engaged in the business of the same class in the municipality, whether
privately or municipally owned or operated.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-2)
   (C)   Additional taxes. Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of
money or value of products or services furnished to this municipality by the
taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public
places or installation and maintenance therein, thereon, or thereunder of
poles, wires, pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’
business.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-3)
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, except
for that consideration received from the city and for all services rendered in
connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
including cash, credit, services, and property of every kind and material and
for all services rendered therewith and shall be determined without any
deduction on account of the cost of transmitting such messages without any
deduction on account of the service, product, or commodity supplied the cost of
materials used, labor, or service costs or any other expenses whatsoever.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation, or political subdivision of this state or a receiver, trustee,
conservator, or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-4)
   (E)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before September 30, each taxpayer shall make a return to the
City Treasurer for the months of June, July, and August, 2002, stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for a corresponding
three-month period.
      (3)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or
she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed), with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-5)
   (F)   Credit for over-payment. If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due or to become due under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, no amounts erroneously paid
more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited. No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1
SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 35.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in such
municipality, regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such a municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money,
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and
property of every kind or nature and shall be determined, without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor, or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit
is extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES, for private line service, shall include charges imposed at each
channel termination point within a municipality that has imposed a tax under
this section and charges for the portion of the inter-office channels provided
within that municipality. Charges for that portion of the inter-office channel
connecting two or more channel termination points, one or more of which is
located within the jurisdictional boundary of such municipality, shall be
determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount equal to the total charge
for the inter-office channel by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of channel termination points that are located within the jurisdictional
boundary of the municipality and the denominator of which is the total number
of channel termination points connected by the inter-office channel. However,
GROSS CHARGE shall not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
         (a)   The tax imposed by this subchapter;
         (b)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
         (c)   The tax imposed by IRC § 4251;
         (d)   Nine-one-one surcharges; or
         (e)   Charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of
§§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, as amended, or any similar
charges added to customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to rate
regulation by the State Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering any
of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of the
Public Utilities Act.
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
city;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are dis-
aggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under § 9-222.1
of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the
period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (7)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunications
devices;
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act; and
      (10)   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if:
         (a)   Those charges are aggregated with other charges for
telecommunications that are taxable;
         (b)   Those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and
         (c)   The retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer’s books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the GROSS CHARGE from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments (including state
universities created by statute), or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption, or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail, as
defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such RETAILER shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such RETAILER to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Any retailer having
or maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary, an office,
distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or
other place of business or any agent or other representative operating within
this state under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective
of whether such place of business or agent or other representative is located
here permanently or temporarily or whether such retailer or subsidiary is
licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location (as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems), SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use, as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act. For air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of a taxpayer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in state where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this subchapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this subchapter, PRIVATE LINE
means a dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer, that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel
or group of channels from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS,
subject to the tax imposed hereunder. For purposes of this subchapter, PREPAID
TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined in § 2-27 of the
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-1)
§ 35.36 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all of the following acts or
privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 5% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To
prevent actual multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege that is subject
to taxation under this division (A), any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer
has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be allowed a credit
against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent
of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the municipality that was not
previously allowed as a credit against any other municipal tax;
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 5% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To
prevent actual multi-state or multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon proof that
the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in this state on
such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or
authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due
and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid in a
municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as a credit against
any other state; and
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the city.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-2)
§ 35.37 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   (1)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from
the taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and
shall be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department.
      (2)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall constitute a debt of
the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law
in the same manner as the original charge for such sale at retail. If the
retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be
required to pay the tax directly to the Department in the manner provided by
the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-3)
§ 35.38 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this subchapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department, pursuant to the State Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (Pub. Act 92-526, § 5-50), and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to implement this
Act.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-4)
§ 35.39 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this subchapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation or
which is used to send or receive such telecommunications tax-free when such
actions, in fact, are not for resale or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-5) (Ord. 02-08, passed 4-10-2006)
TAXPAYER’S RIGHTS CODE
§ 35.50 TITLE; SCOPE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as and may be cited as the
Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Code.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-1)
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s
procedures in connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-2)
   (C)   Application. This subchapter shall be liberally construed and
administered to supplement all of the city’s tax ordinances. To the extent that
any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter,
this subchapter shall be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
§ 35.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act.
   CITY. The City of Creal Springs, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees, or agents, to the extent they are authorized by the
Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-3)
§ 35.52 NOTICES; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Notices. Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be
given, the notice is to be in writing, mailed not less than seven calendar days
prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled
act of the Local Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax
Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail or overnight mail, addressed to the
person concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-4)
   (B)   Late payment. Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing
required to be made to the city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be
considered late unless it is:
      (1)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
      (2)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-5)
   (C)   Payment. Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-6)
§ 35.53 CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid the tax
voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to protest
the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under
duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-7)
§ 35.54 AUDIT PROCEDURES.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption, or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-8)
§ 35.55 APPEAL; HEARING.
   (A)   Appeal.
      (1)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The reason for the assessment;
         (b)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         (c)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         (d)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
      (2)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
      (3)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      (4)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the 45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or assessment shall become a
final bill due and owing without further notice.
      (5)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-9)
   (B)   Hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under division (A) above, the Local Tax
Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      (2)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a
continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack
of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
      (3)   At the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination,
audit, or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-10)
§ 35.56 INTERESTS AND PENALTIES; ABATEMENT; INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Interest and penalties. In the event a determination has been made
that a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment, or other bill sent, the
tax must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
      (1)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax to be 6% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
      (2)   Late filing and payment penalties.
         (a)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided
by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of 5% of the amount of
tax required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed, and a late
payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be imposed.
         (b)   If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed.
         (c)   A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to
file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-11)
   (B)   Abatement. The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty, or failure to
file penalty if the Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause
exists for delay or failure to make a filing.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-12)
   (C)   Installment contracts.
      (1)   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer
for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency.
      (2)   If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day
period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment
contract with the Local Administrator, the installment contract shall be
canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-13)
§ 35.57 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing.
   (B)   The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations
shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return
for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax
return was filed by the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-14)
§ 35.58 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   (1)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a
taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or
assessment from the Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an
application with the Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the
tax due.
      (2)   A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application but not more than four years before the
date of filing the application.
   (B)   A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not be
liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer; in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void.
   (C)   (1)   The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90
days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date
agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator.
      (2)   However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an underpayment
of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be paid within 90
days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the
additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator,
whichever is longer.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-15)
§ 35.59 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-16)
§ 35.60 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-17)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent
return or who willingly violates any other provision of §
35.22 shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
10.99 and in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Bidding and contract procedures
   
36.02   Contractor certificate of insurance
   
36.03   Claims presentation
   
36.04   Identity Theft Prevention Program adopted
   
36.05   Freedom of Information Policy adopted
   
36.06   Smoke-Free Air Code adopted
§ 36.01 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding required. Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for, in whole or in part, by special assessment or
special taxation and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials,
and services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based, whenever
possible, on competitive bids.
   (B)   Formal contract procedure. All work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for, in whole or in part, by special assessment or special
taxation and all purchases, orders, or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment, or contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein when
the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $20,000, shall be purchased from the
lowest responsible bidder, after due notice, inviting bids, unless competitive
bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Alderpersons then holding
office.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the city. The city shall
also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the public
bulletin board in the City Hall.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the City Council, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders
shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the
contract by the City Council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the City Council upon failure on his or her part to enter into a
contract within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the city and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
City Council or by a city employee; in which event, a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The city shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to city. The city shall not accept the bid of a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other monies
due to the city.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in city. The City Council shall have the authority to
award contracts within the purview of this section.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
city to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the City
Council shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
         (j)   Whether the bidder has furnished a certificate of insurance
indicating worker’s compensation and employers’ liability coverage and the
policy limits for such coverage.
      (3)   Performance bonds. The City Council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials,
and services of less than the estimated value of $20,000 shall be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services (including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers, and architects and any other profession whose ethical
code involves, prohibits, or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures) may be entered into by the city without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies materials or services, the City Council
shall be empowered to secure, by open market procedure, as herein set forth, at
the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials, or services
regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The city shall have the authority to join with
other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the city would be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 65 ILCS 8-9-1, and 65 ILCS 8-9-2
§ 36.02 CONTRACTOR CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
    All contractors and subcontractors doing work for the city shall first
provide a certificate of insurance indicating worker’s compensation and
employers’ liability coverage and the policy limits for such coverage.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-34)
§ 36.03 CLAIMS PRESENTATION.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the city for goods purchased,
damaged, or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance, must be presented on or before
the second Monday of each month to the City Clerk. All such claims must be in
writing, and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the City Council from passing on any
claims not previously presented to the City Clerk if, in the opinion of the
Council, justice to the claimant requires it.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-29)
§ 36.04 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM ADOPTED.
   The city developed the Identity Theft Prevention Program pursuant to the
Federal Trade Commission’s Red Flags Rule, which implements § 114 of the Fair
and Accurate Credit Transactions of 2003, 16 C.F.R. § 681.2. The program was
developed with oversight and approval of the city. After consideration of the
size and complexity of the utility’s operations and account systems and the
nature and scope of the utility’s activities, the City Council determined that
this program was appropriate for the city, and therefore approved this program
on February 9, 2009. Therefore, the program and policy on identity theft
prevention is adopted by reference, as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article I)
§ 36.05 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION POLICY ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the Freedom of Information Policy by reference, as if
set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, Article III)
§ 36.06 SMOKE-FREE AIR CODE ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts a Smoke-Free Air Code by reference, as if set out in
full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 27, Article XIII)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utilities Department and Committee
   
50.02   Superintendent
   
50.03   Contract for services
   
50.04   Consumer lists
   
50.05   Liability for charges; estimated charge
   
50.06   No free service
   
50.07   Meter malfunctions
   
50.08   Utility deposits
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 UTILITIES DEPARTMENT AND COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Department established. There shall be an executive department of the
city known as the Utilities Department. It shall include the Water Department,
the Sewer Department, the Gas Department, the Superintendent of Public Works,
the committee appointed by the Mayor, and the employees of the Department. The
designated office shall be the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-1)
   (B)   Utilities Committee. The City Council’s Standing Committee on
Utilities shall exercise a general supervision over the affairs of the
Department. They shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof and shall,
from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had and, generally, shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the Departments.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-2)
§ 50.02 SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Superintendent. The Superintendent of Public Works shall be subject to
the supervision of the Utilities Committee and shall, hereinafter, be referred
to as the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor,
by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, and shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. He or she shall receive
such salary as may be provided by the annual budget of the City Council at the
time of his or her appointment.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-3)
   (B)   Duties of the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall exercise
general management and control over his or her respective department.
      (1)   He or she shall supervise over and be responsible for the conduct
and performance of all employees of the department as a department head in
accordance with the Employee Code, if any.
      (2)   He or she shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the city’s water, sewer, and gas systems as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures, and property provided by the city for the use of his or her
department.
      (4)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and make
such inspections, measurements, and tests as necessary for that purpose.
      (5)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him
or her by the provisions of this chapter or by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 38-1-4)
§ 50.03 CONTRACT FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Customer accepts service. The rates, rules, and regulations contained
in this chapter shall constitute and be considered a part of the contract with
every person, company, or corporation who is supplied with water and sewer
services from the waterworks and sewer system and every person, company, or
corporation, hereinafter called a “customer,” who accepts and uses city water
and sewer services shall be held to have consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The Department shall endeavor, at
all times, to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service; however,
in case the supply of service shall be interrupted or irregular or defective or
fail from causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of
employees, servants, or agents, the Department shall not be liable therefor.
   (C)   Destroying property. Any person found guilty of defacing, tampering,
injuring, or destroying or, in any manner, limiting the use or availability of
any meter or any property of the waterworks system and sewer system or erecting
signs on the property of the Department without permission shall be in
violation of this section.
   (D)   Service obtained by fraud.
      (1)   All contracts for water and sewer services shall be made in the
name of the head of the household, firm, or corporation using the established
spelling of that person’s or firm’s name.
      (2)   Attempts to obtain service by the use of other names, different
spellings, or by substituting other persons or firms shall be considered a
subterfuge and service shall be denied.
      (3)   If service has been discontinued because of nonpayment of bills or
any unpaid obligation and service has again been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation, or fraud, that service shall be promptly disconnected and
the whole or such part of the deposit as may be necessary to satisfy the unpaid
obligation shall be retained by the city and credited to the appropriate
account.
   (E)   Failure to receive bill.
      (1)   Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a customer from his or
her obligation to pay within the time specified.
      (2)   Should the Department be unable to bill a customer for services
used during any month, the following billing shall include the charges for
services used during the unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that
period of approximately 30 days.
   (F)   Request to discontinue service. Services shall have been deemed to
have been supplied to any property connected to the utility systems during a
month unless the customer notifies the city prior to the first day of the new
billing month in which the services are to be discontinued.
   (G)   Billing; utility shut-off; hearing.
      (1)   All bills for utility services shall be due and payable upon
presentation. If a bill is not paid by the tenth day of the month or within ten
days of the date the bill is presented, whichever is later, a penalty equal to
10% of the amount due on said bill shall be added thereto. This penalty shall
be in addition to the charges heretofore established for the utility services.
      (2)   Any customer who fails to pay the utility bill within 25 days of
presentation shall have his or her utility services disconnected after a
written notice from the city has been mailed by first-class mail to the
customer 20 days after billing, affording the customer an opportunity to
request a hearing. The notice shall specifically advise the customer of the
following:
         (a)   Name and address of the consumer and the amount of the bill;
         (b)   The date, time, and location of the hearing to be held;
         (c)   The customer has a right to be heard and to present evidence in
his or her behalf if he or she does not agree with the utility bill; and
         (d)   If the customer fails to appear at the hearing, the customer’s
utility service shall be terminated without further notice or proceedings. (See
Memphis Light, Gas & Water v. Craft 98 S. Ct 1554 (1978).)
      (3)   The time, date, and location of the hearing shall be determined by
the Mayor or his or her designated representative. The Mayor or his or her
designee shall make a final determination as to the rights of the customer and
the city based on the information received at the hearing.
      (4)   The customer shall be notified within two working days of the
decision rendered by the Mayor or his or her designee. If the service is to be
discontinued, a date and time shall be set out in the notice to terminate the
service or services of the customer. Notice of the Mayor’s or designee’s
decision shall be made by first-class mail to the customer’s last known
address.
      (5)   If the Mayor or his or her designee decides in favor of the city,
the city shall have the right to discontinue the customer’s utility services.
Should the customer fail to appear at the hearing or should the notice be
returned to the city for any reason, the city shall also have the right to
terminate the customer’s utility services without further notice or
proceedings.
      (6)   If the customer who has been notified for nonpayment of utility
bills is not the owner of record, then the city shall notify the owner of the
property by first-class mail.
      (7)   Once utility services have been disconnected, the same shall not be
again connected or used until all delinquent accounts and bills of service are
paid in full, including a fee of $35 for each connection of such utility
services, plus expenses incurred in the reconnecting of the utility services.
   (H)   Lien notice. Whenever a bill for utility services remains unpaid for
60 days after it has been rendered, the Clerk shall file with the County
Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a
notice that the municipality claims a lien for this amount to the period
covered by the bill.
      (1)   If the consumer of utility services whose bill is unpaid is not the
owner of the premises and the Treasurer has notice of this, then notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the premises, if his or her address is known to the
Clerk, whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of 30 days after it has
been rendered.
      (2)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien or to mail such notice
or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right
to foreclose the lien for unpaid utility bills as mentioned herein.
   (I)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid utility
charges may be sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity
in the name of the city. The City Attorney is hereby authorized to institute
such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill for utility services has
remained unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8
§ 50.04 CONSUMER LISTS.
    It is hereby made the duty of the Clerk to prepare or cause to be prepared
a complete and accurate list of all premises and properties receiving utility
services, showing the name and address of the occupant and the owner of the
same. The list shall be kept up-to-date and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises. It shall be presented at the regular monthly meeting if requested.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-2)
§ 50.05 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   (A)   Liability for charges. The owner of any lot, parcel of land, or
premises and the user of the services shall be jointly and severally liable for
the payment of the services to such lot, parcel of land, or premises, and all
services are rendered to the premises by the city only on the condition that
such owner, occupant, and user shall be jointly and severally liable therefor
to the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-3)
   (B)   Estimated charge.
      (1)   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or from
any cause, fails to properly register the utilities passing through the same,
the consumer shall be charged the average charge of the previous three months
usage.
      (2)   If no record of the previous three months exists, then it shall be
the duty of the Water Clerk to estimate the amount of utilities consumed during
the time the meter fails to operate and the consumer shall be charged with such
estimated amount. Bills may be estimated whenever it is impossible to read the
meters during inclement weather.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-4)
§ 50.06 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free utility services shall be furnished to any person, public or
private, and all rates and charges shall be non-discriminatory, provided that
the Mayor and City Council reserve the right to impose special rates and
charges in cases where particular circumstances render the regular rates
inadequate or unjust.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-5)
§ 50.07 METER MALFUNCTIONS.
   Any gas or water meter shall be taken out and tested upon complaint of the
consumer, upon payment of a fee of $20. If, upon test, the meter is not within
3% of being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and the $20 fee returned
to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-6)
§ 50.08 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Residential. When any application is made for utility services in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, all applications or rented or
leased property for which the service is requested shall deposit with the City
Clerk the following amounts:
      (1)   Sewer: $75; and
      (2)   Water: $75.
   (B)   Commercial.
      (1)   In the case of a commercial or industrial user, the advanced
payment for all utility deposits shall be an amount equal to one month of
estimated charges for all utilities, based upon the history of similar
establishments.
      (2)   Where the amount of the deposit provided in division (A) above is
not sufficient to adequately protect the city, a greater amount than set forth
above may be required, based upon the customer’s estimated bill for a customary
billing period.
   (C)   Security for payment - no interest. The deposits made under the
provisions of this chapter shall be held by the city as security for the
payment of utility services used by the applicant upon the premises to which
his application pertains and may be so applied when any default is made in the
payment in the utilities bill in accordance with this chapter. The depositor
shall earn no interest on the deposit.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-7)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter or
Chapters 51, 52, or 53, except §
53.021(A), shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision herein.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-91)
   (C)   Upon conviction of such act in violation of §
50.03, violators shall be fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 38-2-1)
   (D)   The penalty for tampering, damaging, adjusting, or, in any manner,
interfering with the components or operation of the system, in violation of §
51.007, shall be up to $400. If the penalty is not paid within 30 days after
the amount is determined, the city shall shutoff water service, with no further
notice to the user. In addition to the penalty as imposed herein, the person
shall reimburse the city for the actual cost of repairing any damage arising
from the person’s act.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-17)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of Chapter 53 shall become
liable to the city by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-93)
   (F)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
53.055(B) shall be, upon conviction, fined in the amount not exceeding $750 for
each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-92)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Removal of meters; meters damaged
   
51.003   Installing and maintaining service lines
   
51.004   Resale of water
   
51.005   Electrical ground wires
   
51.006   Fire hydrants
   
51.007   Damage to district property
   
51.008   Alternative water source
Administration
   
51.020   City’s responsibility and liability
   
51.021   Inspections
   
51.022   Emergencies declared
   
51.023   Shortage and purity
   
51.024   Allocation of water use, maintenance, and costs
   
51.025   Compliance
Service and Use Regulations; Permits
   
51.040   Application for taps and service connections
   
51.041   Service to be metered
   
51.042   Damage due to interruption of service
   
51.043   Discontinuation of service; non-compliance
   
51.044   Water for building and construction
   
51.045   Interruption of service or supply
   
51.046   Abandoned connections
   
51.047   Water well permits
Extension of Water Mains
   
51.060   Application
   
51.061   Plat of proposed extension
   
51.062   Engineer to prepare plans
   
51.063   Sealed bids; contract
   
51.064   Determination of extension expenses
   
51.065   Contractor installs extensions
Water Rates
   
51.080   Definitions
   
51.081   Revenues and accounts
   
51.082   Access to books
   
51.083   Notice of rates
   
51.084   Appeals
   
51.085   Adequacy of service charges
   
51.086   Computation
   
51.087   Connection charges and water rates
   
51.088   Requested shutoff
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The City Council of the City of Creal Springs or, where
such authority is specifically delegated, the Superintendent of the Water and
Sewer Department.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
water system.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend, or
reconstruct the waterworks.
   CURB COCK. A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water
main to a building installed near the curb, which may be operated by a valve
key to start or stop flow in the water-supply lines of a building. Also called
a CURB STOP.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal, and coverage of (loan, bond, and the like) outstanding.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FEDERAL ACT. The 1996 Federal Safe Drinking Water Acts Amendments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs (other than the operation,
maintenance, and replacement costs and the like), debt service, and capital
improvement costs.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water constituent. It
is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has replaced the unit
formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately
equivalent, in reporting the results of water analysis.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, or company or municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration, expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SERVICE BOX. A valve box used with corporation or curb cock.
   STATE/LET. The State Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE LOAN. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond
Act and for making such loans as filed with the Secretary of State of the State
of Illinois.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the waterworks will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of waterworks for the cost of
operation, maintenance, and replacement.
   WATER AND SEWER FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the water system.
   WATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of
the water facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE shall be computed as outlined in this
chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge and the local
capital cost, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-1)
§ 51.002 REMOVAL OF METERS; METERS DAMAGED.
   (A)   Removal of meters. All meters shall remain the property of the
Department and may be removed from the customer’s premises at any time without
notice for the purpose of testing and repairing the same or upon discontinuance
of service. Upon discovery of any unlawful act by any customer or his or her
agent or employee herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with any other
rules and regulations of the Department, such service shall be disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-4)
   (B)   Meter damaged. Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot
water being forced back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating
apparatus or for any other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer
shall pay the city for the actual cost of the removal, repair, and replacement
of the damaged meter and all previous water bills shall be corrected on an
estimated basis to cover such period as it appears that the meter was out of
order for such damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-8)
§ 51.003 INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of
service lines between the meter and the residence or business. Such service
lines must be at least three-fourths inch in diameter and must be installed at
a minimum depth of three feet. Service lines must have a minimum working
pressure rating of 160 psi at 73.4°F and must be constructed of one of the
following types of materials: copper, (Type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polyethylene, or polybutylene.
   (B)   Service lines shall not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by the Superintendent. The user shall not connect any service line or
any plumbing connected with the service line to any other water source. The
service line shall meet all requirements of the State Environmental Protection
Agency’s rules and regulations, the State Plumbing Code, and the regulations in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-5)
§ 51.004 RESALE OF WATER.
   No water supplied by the waterworks system shall be resold by any user. No
water user may supply water to other families or allow them to take it, except
for use on the premises and for the purpose specified in such user’s approved
application nor after water is introduced into any building or upon any
premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap or
connection with work upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extension, or
attachments without written permit therefor. Resale or unauthorized use of
water shall be grounds for discontinuance of water service to the user or the
premises or both.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-10) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.005 ELECTRICAL GROUND WIRES.
   (A)   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire
to any plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water
service pipe, water meter, or water main belonging to the city.
   (B)   The city shall hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable
for any damage to the property or injury to the employees of the city caused by
such ground wire. Any and all owners and consumers shall remove any existing
ground wires immediately upon written notice from the city. If not so
disconnected five days after notice, the city, through its officials, may enter
the property and remove such ground wires and the consumer shall pay all costs.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 51.006 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All public fire hydrants with gate valves, tees, and connections from
the main, inside the city limits, shall be owned, maintained, and used only by
the city and shall be solely responsible for same. Use of water from fire
hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon permission by the city
and after approved application to the city.
   (B)   The city shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside of the
city limits or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom or any
damage either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure, or amount
of water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   (1)   All public fire hydrants located outside the city limits owned
by the city shall be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but
the city will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for their
condition or use or abuse.
      (2)   Such public fire hydrants shall be used only for the purpose of
extinguishing fires except when the city may issue a special permit for their
use to contractors who shall then be responsible for the hydrants and the use
of water from them.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-14)
§ 51.007 DAMAGE TO DISTRICT PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall tamper, adjust, damage, or, in any manner,
interfere with the components or operation of the water system owned by the
city. The shutoff valve shall be opened only by a duly authorized
representative of the city.
      (2)   In emergencies, waters may be shut off by a user after a proven
attempt has been made to contact a duly authorized representative of the city.
   (B)   Users shall report any known evidence of tampering, adjusting,
damaging, or interference with the operation of the system owned by the city to
the City Council. The foregoing shall not act in any manner to abrogate the
city’s right to pursue additional legal action against a person who damages the
system.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-17) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.008 ALTERNATIVE WATER SOURCE.
   (A)   (1)   Any customer with critical water requirements shall have an
alternate water source. Failure to provide such shall be considered a violation
of customer rules and loss or damages resulting therefrom shall be the
responsibility of the customer.
      (2)   Those customers shall include, but not be limited to,
manufacturers, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, greenhouses, hatcheries, or
any other building or business which might suffer any type of loss due to
interruption of water service.
   (B)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons who
may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither ensure
nor be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages, direct or
indirect, by reason of fire or any other cause and all water service furnished
shall also be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable accidents, failure of
supply, fire, strikes, riots, or any other causes.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-25)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.020 CITY’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Ownership, installation, and maintenance.
      (1)   The city shall install, own, and maintain the complete water
system, water mains, and service lines to the property line or a mutually
agreed upon point, subject to the City Council’s determination that a
particular service is economically feasible to install. The City Council shall
furnish, install, and maintain a meter and appurtenances including a shutoff
valve.
      (2)   The shutoff valve shall be installed on the user’s property line or
such other mutually agreed upon point. The meter may be located near the
shutoff valve or within the user’s premises as determined by a duly authorized
representative of the city. The meter and shutoff valve must be located at a
point where it is readily accessible.
   (B)   Refusal of service. The City Council, at any time, may refuse
additional service(s) to any applicant or user if, in the judgment of the
Council, the capacity of the system will not permit such use.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-6)
§ 51.021 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Access to premises. The city shall have access to all portions of the
premises of the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use of
water and the consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing, and any other apparatus in
any manner connected to the waterworks system of the city. The city shall have
the right and option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any
repair, change, removal, or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing, or
other apparatus that would, in any manner, affect the water supply or system of
the city or the supply or fixtures of other consumers.
   (B)   Meters to be open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections, and appurtenances on private property connected with the
waterworks system of the city shall be open to the inspection of the proper
officers and employees of the city at all reasonable hours.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-7)
§ 51.022 EMERGENCIES DECLARED.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to proclaim the existence of an
emergency whenever it appears that the city water supply is inadequate for all
general uses and purposes, which proclamation shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the community, and the Mayor is further authorized to
declare in similar manner the end of an emergency period.
   (B)   (1)   From and after the publication of a proclamation as provided for
in division (A) above, the following uses of water shall be prohibited:
         (a)   The washing of cars and other vehicles;
         (b)   The sprinkling of lawns and shrubbery;
         (c)   The watering of gardens; and
         (d)   Other nonessential uses.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to so use water from the city
supply during such an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-15) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.023 SHORTAGE AND PURITY.
   The city shall not be held responsible for or, in any manner, liable to any
person, company, consumer, or public body for any claim or damage, either
direct or resultant, because of any shortage of water supply; any shutoff of
water for any reason; any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or
city’s mains, pipes, and fixtures; any pollution or impurity in water supply;
or any fire or water damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-16)
§ 51.024 ALLOCATION OF WATER USE, MAINTENANCE, AND COSTS.
   (A)   Easements. The consumer shall give such easements and rights-of-way as
necessary to the city and allow access for the purpose of construction, repair,
maintenance, meter reading, relocation, or expansion of the water system. The
necessity shall be determined by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-19)
   (B)   Use of water on consumer’s premises. The city shall reserve the right
to use the water from the consumer’s facilities at any time deemed necessary.
No charge shall be made by the consumer for the use of the facilities and no
charge shall be made by the city for the water used by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-20)
   (C)   Allocation of maintenance costs between user and city. The city shall
maintain and repair all water service pipes between the water mains and the
curb lines. Any repairs to service lines or taps between the water mains and
the sidewalk or property line shall be the city’s expense. Any repairs or
renewals of water service pipes between the property line or curb line and
extending to the owner’s premises shall be made at the sole expense of the
consumer or owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-21)
§ 51.025 COMPLIANCE.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water system and the consumption of water shall be adopted, and the same shall
become part of the contract with every water consumer, and every water consumer
shall be considered to take water from the city, subject thereto and bound
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-26)
SERVICE AND USE REGULATIONS; PERMITS
§ 51.040 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the
waterworks system of the city shall file a written application at the City
Hall, signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service
connection is desired or by the duly authorized agent of such owner.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter
prescribed to cover the cost of such service connection. In the event the
application is made by an agent for the owner, then the application shall also
be accompanied by the written authority of the owner to the agent for the
making of the application.
   (C)   If a person makes a false statement on the application, it shall be
deemed grounded for termination of service.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-2)
§ 51.041 SERVICE TO BE METERED.
   All water service (whether for domestic, commercial, or industrial use)
shall be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the
same accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing and so as
to be free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building shall be set
in a suitable meter box approved by the Utilities Committee. Water shall not be
turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed and all other
requirements of this chapter on the part of the property owner have been fully
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-3)
§ 51.042 DAMAGE DUE TO INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   All connections for the water services applied for hereunder and all
connections now attached to the present city waterworks system and all use or
service of the system shall be upon the express condition that the city shall
not be liable for nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury
caused by reason of the breaking of any main, service, pipe, apparatus, or
appurtenance connected with the waterworks system or for any interruption of
the supply of water by reason of the breaking of machinery or by reason of
stoppages, alterations, extensions, or renewals.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-9) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.043 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Discontinuing service; dangerous usage.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to refuse water service or to
discontinue water service, without notice, at any time to any consumer if the
city finds any apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be
detrimental to the water system of the city or to any or all of its consumers.
      (2)   Standpipes, hydrants, gate valves, and any other apparatus that
cause water hammer or any danger to the water system or other customer’s
plumbing shall be immediately repaired or removed upon notice from the city, or
at its option, the city may immediately discontinue service without notice and
without any liability for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-11)
   (B)   Non-compliance with rules and regulations.
      (1)   If any consumer fails to comply with any of the rules and
regulations in force, the city shall notify the consumer of such failure. If
the consumer does not remedy the same as the rules provide and within a
reasonable time, the city shall have the right to discontinue service.
      (2)   Except in case of non-payment, emergency, necessity, or as
otherwise provided, the city will not discontinue service for violation of any
rule until five days after notice has been given and the violation has not been
remedied.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-18)
§ 51.044 WATER FOR BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Applicants desiring to use water from the waterworks system for
building or construction purposes shall make application therefor to the
Superintendent on a form provided by the Department for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon a permit being granted, the service pipe shall be carried at the
expense of the applicant to the inside of the curb line where a service cock
and meter shall be placed with pipe leading to the surface and a faucet placed
at the end thereof above the surface. When the building or construction is
completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless
permanent connection is made in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Charge for the use and connection of the meter shall be prescribed
by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-13)
§ 51.045 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of water whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules, or for any notice
as circumstances allow will be given to consumers, but in emergencies, the
water may be shut off without notice. All hot water faucets shall be left open
during any shutoff to prevent damage to plumbing. Such necessary work will be
done as rapidly as may be practical and whenever feasible at such times as will
cause the least inconvenience. The city shall not be held responsible for or
liable because of any supply shutoff for any direct or resultant damages to any
person, company, or consumer or to any pipe, fixtures, or plumbing.
   (B)   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants, or other industrial
use shall not be furnished by direct pressure from the mains, but only to tanks
holding ample reserve supply. Should any equipment be supplied direct from
mains, then, in case of any shutoff of water, the city will not be held
responsible or liable for any direct or resulting damage because of interrupted
supply, insufficient pressure, or otherwise.
   (C)   Whenever water mains, pipes, and service connections are taken up,
shut off, or interfered with by reason of any city street improvements, the
city will endeavor to maintain service so far as reasonably possible but will
not be directly or indirectly liable for any interruption, poor pressure, or
damage of any kind either to consumers adjacent or to other consumers affected
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-22)
§ 51.046 ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any connection to the waterworks system is abandoned because
the building to which the water connection is made has been abandoned,
destroyed, or removed, the Superintendent may remove the meter and any pipe or
connections in the public right-of-way or easement and cap, plug, or otherwise
seal the pipe or main.
   (B)   Before taking any such steps, the Superintendent shall notify the
owner of the real estate if the owner’s name and address is known and shall
notify the person shown on the real estate tax records as having paid taxes on
the property the last time taxes were paid. Such notice shall be made by mail,
at least 30 days before any action is taken under this section.
   (C)   If water is leaking, the Superintendent shall take immediate action
and send the notices within three working days of the time action was taken.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-24)
§ 51.047 WATER WELL PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to drill a water well in the city without the proper
permits from the state and the City Council. All wells shall comply with
Chapter 52. No wells shall be drilled when the property is within 200 feet of
the municipal water main.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-23) Penalty, see §
50.99
EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS
§ 51.060 APPLICATION.
   Any person within the service areas of the utility systems and desiring the
extension of the mains to the premises shall make application therefor to the
Water and Sewer Department and, in making the application, shall present a plat
showing the area to be served by the main extension.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-61)
§ 51.061 PLAT OF PROPOSED EXTENSION.
   The plat shall be submitted by the City Clerk to the Engineer and the
Superintendent of Public Health and Safety of the Council for determination of
the size and lengths of the utilities installations, location of fire hydrants,
water service valves, and other appurtenances to be installed based upon the
following provisions.
   (A)   Mains shall be sized so that fire protection service may be rendered
to all lots or premises to be served by the main and any possible extension
thereof.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall be so located that no premises will be more than
600 feet from a fire hydrant.
   (C)   In determining the length of pipe lines to be installed to serve a
main extension, the main shall be extended to fully cover the front of the
property, and if the last lot to be served is a corner lot or a lot immediately
adjacent to a corner lot, the terminal point of the extension made hereunder
shall be located so that the main laid hereunder ties with the existing main
located in the intersecting street, and further provided, if there is no main
located on the intersecting or no intersecting street, the terminal point of
the extension made hereunder shall be located at the nearest street line of the
intersecting street or extend to the furthest end of the development.
   (D)   (1)   The city may require the proposed main to be connected to its
distribution system at a point which, in its judgment, is necessary to
adequately furnish water to premises to be served, and nothing herein shall
require the city to allow connection to the closest point of existing service,
if such service is inadequate for the extension proposed.
      (2)   Main trunk lines may be installed by the city at no cost to the
developer; however, lots or properties fronting directly thereon which may be
served by a service connection to the main will be charged the average amount
per connection as found in subdivisions currently being constructed.
   (E)   The city reserves the right to further extend its water mains from and
beyond the terminus of each water main extension made under this chapter. The
applicant or the applicant’s agent paying for an extension shall not be
entitled to any refund for the attaching of customers to any further extension
or branch mains so involved.
   (F)   Extensions made under this rule shall be and remain the property of
the city.
   (G)   Before the city mains will be laid hereunder in any new subdivision,
it is understood and agreed that the road surface will be brought to the
extended sub-grade and the applicant, developer, or such new subdivision shall
furnish the city with a right-of-way agreement in suitable form to the city,
unless the streets of the new subdivision have been dedicated to public use.
   (H)   (1)   When a pipe line is to be installed in a paved or unpaved
street, a service line of three-fourths inch, Type “K” copper is to be provided
to the centerline of each lot for a one-family dwelling.
      (2)   The service line is to terminate at a point three feet to five feet
inside the property line in a meter box.
   (I)   When a business or an apartment house is to be serviced, contact the
Utilities Department to obtain the proper size for the service.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-62)
§ 51.062 ENGINEER TO PREPARE PLANS.
   After approval of design, plans, and specifications shall be prepared in
accordance with the foregoing and with specifications for utility main
extensions from time to time adopted by the Council. The plans and
specifications shall be prepared by the City Engineer or a Civil Engineer
acceptable to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-63)
§ 51.063 SEALED BIDS; CONTRACT.
   (A)   Sealed bids; larger pipe required. Sealed bids shall be received by
the Council after advertisement not less than ten days prior to the date of the
receiving of the bids and after receipt thereof, the applicant shall deposit
with the City Clerk the entire cost, based upon the lowest responsible bid; the
cost to include the entire cost of the proposed extension, including pipes,
valves, fittings, fire hydrants, all other material and all costs of
engineering and inspection. Except, if the city should require the installation
of a size of pipe larger than is found by the City Engineering Standard to be
necessary for the subdivision, then the deposit shall be based upon the cost of
installing the size determined to be necessary for the subdivision, with the
city standing the additional cost for a larger line.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-64)
   (B)   Contract. Upon a deposit of the monies by the applicant, as
hereinbefore required, a contract shall be entered into between the applicant
and the city, as provided in Appendix #6 in the provisions codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-65)
§ 51.064 DETERMINATION OF EXTENSION EXPENSES.
   (A)   The City Council shall first determine if an extension of water main
is economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will use water along the extension. If
the extension is economically feasible, then the city may install and pay the
cost of the extension at the discretion of the City Council.
   (B)   If the city elects not to pay the cost of extending the water main,
then the person or persons desiring water service shall install the extension
at their own personal expense upon written consent by the City Council. The
city shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area, such as a
subdivision being developed, unless there are sufficient existing residents or
businesses to make the extension economically feasible. All extensions shall
comply with the Standard Specifications for Water & Sewer Construction in the
State of Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-66)
§ 51.065 CONTRACTOR INSTALLS EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city shall approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions. Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
shall be reviewed and approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   Ownership, rights-of-way, and title shall be conveyed to the city for
all extensions installed by anyone other than the city. The city will maintain
the mains after they have been inspected and approved by the Municipal
Engineer.
   (D)   No extension will be permitted if in the opinion of the City Council
the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension. All legal and engineering fees associated with the extension and
charged to the city shall be paid by the developer, unless otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-67)
WATER RATES
§ 51.080 DEFINITIONS.
   A BUILDING UNIT shall be all persons or families residing in a building
under one roof, be it an apartment or homes converted into more than one
dwelling place, each family or individual resident residing therein shall be
deemed an individual customer or such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be
billed for at least one minimum water and/or sewer account according to the
number of families or individual residents residing therein.
   (A)   If more than one dwelling is located upon the premises, then the user
shall make application for each dwelling, and each shall have a separate
shutoff valve, meter, and service line.
   (B)   When two or more families live in one dwelling, one minimum per
dwelling shall be charged. If more than the minimum is used, the owner or
occupant of such dwelling shall pay the additional over such minimum as
provided.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-70)
§ 51.081 REVENUES AND ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Water revenues. All revenues and monies derived from the operation of
the water system shall be deposited in the water account of the Water Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart
from its private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the City
Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same or at such more
frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the City Council.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the “Water and Sewer System Fund of the City.”
      (2)   The Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-71)
   (B)   Water accounts. The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the system
and, at regular annual intervals, shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water system. In addition to the customary operating
statements, the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and
operating expenses of the water facilities, including a replacement cost. The
financial information to be shown in the audit report shall include the
following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system; and
      (5)   Number of non-metered users.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-72)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 et seq.
§ 51.082 ACCESS TO BOOKS.
   The State Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the city
which are applicable to the city system of user charges for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of any loan agreement with the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-73)
§ 51.083 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the City Clerk, shall be filed
in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed notice to all
owners of real estate of the charges of the sewer system of the city on their
properties. Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to sewer treatment services.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-74)
§ 51.084 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §
51.087 shall be made available to a user within 15 days of receipt of a written
request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computation
thereof shall be remedied by a third party selected by both parties within 90
days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-75)
§ 51.085 ADEQUACY OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed, not less
often than annually by the City Council with assistance, if requested by the
Council, from the City Engineer and any accountant performing audit services
for the city. The water service charge rates shall be revised periodically to
reflect the change in local capital costs or operation, maintenance, and
replacement costs. The rates established by the city from time to time shall
include a basic user charge, a debt service charge, and a capital improvement
charge. The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the operation,
maintenance, and replacement (OM&R) costs and shall be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the annual water volume;
      (2)   Estimated the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the water facilities, including a replacement fund for the year, for
all works categories; and
      (3)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   The debt service charge is computed by apportioning the annual debt
service as a charge per 1,000 gallons. The capital improvement charge is levied
on users to provide for capital improvements, extensions, or reconstruction of
the waterworks. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the
annual amount to be accrued as a charge per 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-76)
§ 51.086 COMPUTATION.
   (A)   The method for computation of rates and service charges established
for user charges in this chapter shall be made available to a user within 20
days of receipt of a written request for such.
   (B)   Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations thereof
shall be remedied by the city within 45 days after notification of a formal
written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-77)
§ 51.087 CONNECTION CHARGES AND WATER RATES.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 24-10,
adopted 12-9-2024). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   Connection charge.
      (1)   Inside city. Applicants for water service inside the city shall pay
a charge of $800 per unit served plus the cost of all labor and materials
supplied by the city, if any. Each dwelling, commercial, and industrial unit
shall be assessed at connection charge.
      (2)   Outside city. Applicants for water service outside the city limits
shall pay $800 plus the cost of labor and materials supplied by the city, if
any.
      (3)   State Plumbing Code. All water tap and service connections made to
the mains of the waterworks system of the city shall conform to the regulations
of this chapter and of the State Plumbing Code. All connections and
installations shall be made by the City Utilities Department. (See 65 ILCS 5/
11-150-1.)
(Prior Code, § 38-3-78)
   (B)   Water rates. There shall be established the following rates and
charges for the use of the water system of the city, based upon the amount of
water consumed as follows:
      (1)   Water rates inside city.
 
First 1,000 gallons per month $25.18 minimum charge
Over 1,000 gallons per month  $9.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (2)   County housing water service.
 
First 12,000 gallons per month $266.16 minimum charge
Over 12,000 gallons per month  $8.52 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings and manufactured home parks. Multiple-
family dwellings and manufactured home parks and other multiple users shall be
charged so that the aforesaid rates apply separately to each dwelling or other
unit and to each manufactured home. Accordingly, the charge for multiple-family
dwelling, manufactured home parks, and other multiple-use buildings, served by
one meter or by a lesser number of meters than there are dwelling or other
units or manufactured homes shall be determined by dividing the total units
used in a given month by the number of dwellings or other units in the building
and manufactured homes in a manufactured home park and, then, by applying to
the quotient so obtained, the aforesaid rates, as the case may be. This latter
figure shall then be multiplied by the total number of dwelling units in the
multiple-family dwelling and manufactured homes in a manufactured home park to
obtain the proper charge for such dwelling or manufactured home park
established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-79)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-150-1
§ 51.088 REQUESTED SHUTOFF.
   If user requests water to be shut off, there will be a $10 fee to have the
water turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-80)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Approved backflow device
   
52.02   Cross-connection prohibited; exception
   
52.03   Investigations by Superintendent
   
52.04   Right to enter premises
   
52.05   Notice to customer; reconnection fee
   
52.06   Contamination costs and customers
Cross-Connection Control Code
   
52.20   Purpose; application
   
52.21   Definitions
   
52.22   Responsibility of owners
   
52.23   Water system
   
52.24   Cross-connection prohibited
   
52.25   Survey and investigations
   
52.26   Where protection is required; type of protection
   
52.27   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.28   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.29   Booster pumps
   
52.30   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 APPROVED BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If, in accordance with the
State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Inspector, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the Inspector shall give notice to the water customer to install such
an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency,
and all applicable local regulations and shall have inspections and tests made
of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the State
Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency, and local regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-31)
§ 52.02 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary, or emergency
water supply other than the regular public water supply enters the supply or
distribution system of the city, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Superintendent and the State Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-32) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.03 INVESTIGATIONS BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two years or as often as the inspector shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five years.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-33)
§ 52.04 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections and that the inspector or his or her
authorized agent shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessee, or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
inspector any information which he or she may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information when demanded shall, within the discretion of the inspector, be
evidence of the presence of improper connections, as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-34)
§ 52.05 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER; RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains.
      (2)   Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the City Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when
the inspector is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists.
      (2)   Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause
of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the inspector
or the State Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to
prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water
supply.
   (C)   The public water supply, the inspector, or the agents or assigns shall
not be liable to any customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which
may result from termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-35)
§ 52.06 CONTAMINATION COSTS AND CUSTOMERS.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or repaired
device or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-36)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL CODE
§ 52.20 PURPOSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control, which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-41)
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-42)
§ 52.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Waterworks
Association, American National Standards Institute, or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams or process fluids or used water. These WATERS may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The backflow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All BACKFLOW
PREVENTION DEVICES in the state must meet the standards of the State Plumbing
Code and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian, or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and, the
other, a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015, a double check valve
assembly, and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each
check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word SEVERE, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum, or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping, and appurtenances, appliances, and installations
of a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the State Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Admn. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes
(including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems) from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley, or
at the curb to, within, and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work, or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically or
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes, and cribs; pumping stations; treatment plants; reservoirs; storage
tanks; and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
community water supply or a non-community water supply.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
      (1)   A device containing a minimum of two independently acting check
valves together with an automatically operated pressure differential relief
valve located between the two check valves and approved under ASSE Standard
1013. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure
between these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure.
      (2)   In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit must
include tightly closed shutoff valves located at each end of the device, and
each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-44)
§ 52.22 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service
connection.
      (2)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent or his or her authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice
to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at each
service connection to the premises.
   (B)   The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or devices
at his or her own expense; failure, refusal, or inability on the part of the
consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds
for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices
have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
maintenance, testing, and repair as required in §
52.25(D) for a period of at least five years.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require the consumer to submit a cross-
connection inspection report to the city to assist in determining whether or
not service line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections
shall be conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by
the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-43)
§ 52.23 WATER SYSTEM.
   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the public
water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (A)   The PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent up to the point
where the consumer’s water system begins.
      (1)   The SOURCE shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
water supply distribution system.
      (2)   The PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s
water system.
   (B)   The CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-45)
§ 52.24 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-46) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.25 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises and
testing, repair, and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request of the Superintendent or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent for the
verification of information submitted by the consumer to the public water
supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   Testing and records adhere to the following.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e).
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-47)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 225 ILCS 320/3 and 415 ILCS 5/4(e)
§ 52.26 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED; TYPE OF PROTECTION.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises where, in the judgment of the
Superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system
exist.
      (1)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent, and the
source is approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
         (b)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or system containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent;
         (c)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment
of the Superintendent, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements
which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
         (d)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
         (e)   Premises having a repeated history or cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
      (2)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections
to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities, unless the Superintendent determines that no
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, and nursing homes;
         (b)   Laboratories;
         (c)   Piers, docks, and waterfront facilities;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or stormwater
pumping stations;
         (e)   Food or beverages processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants;
         (g)   Metal plating industries;
         (h)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (i)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         (j)   Car washes;
         (k)   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
         (l)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-48)
   (B)   (1)   The type of protection required under division (A) above shall
depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
         (a)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
         (b)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that
could cause a system or health hazard.
         (c)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
      (2)   The type of protection required under division (A) above shall be
an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device.
      (3)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used
for a fire protection system, reduced-pressure principle backflow preventers
shall be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply
when:
         (a)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or
other chemicals;
         (b)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
         (c)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
         (d)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced
into the fire safety system.
      (4)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-49)
§ 52.27 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Waterworks
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance, as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device, shall be performed, and the manufacturer’s Maintenance Manual shall
be available onsite.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-50)
§ 52.28 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer, at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed, to
have inspection, tests, maintenance, and repair made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter and required service performed
within five days.
      (3)   Reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay, as required by §
52.20(A)(1).
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-51) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.29 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-52) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.30 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained, and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises or if a
low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Neither the city, the Superintendent, or its agents or assigns shall
be liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damages, or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this section, whether or not said termination of
the water supply was with or without notice.
   (D)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (E)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this section shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss, or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-53)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Use of public wastewaters required
   
53.003   Private sewage disposal
   
53.004   Extension of collecting wastewater
   
53.005   Disturbing system unlawful
Administration
   
53.020   Compliance
   
53.021   Inspections
   
53.022   Permits
   
53.023   Costs borne by owner
   
53.024   Bond required
Building Wastewater Construction and Use Regulations
   
53.035   Separate wastewater; exceptions
   
53.036   Old building wastewater
   
53.037   Construction methods; plumbing requirements
   
53.038   Prohibited connections
   
53.039   Connections to wastewater mains
   
53.040   Capacity of wastewater
   
53.041   Supervision and inspections
   
53.042   Excavations guarded
   
53.043   Unlawful discharges
Use of Wastewater Facilities
   
53.055   Discharge of stormwater
   
53.056   Regulations of wastes
   
53.057   Harmful effects of certain materials
   
53.058   Harmful wastes; approval
   
53.059   Interceptors provided
   
53.060   Flow-equalizing facilities
   
53.061   Industrial wastes control manhole
   
53.062   Testing and measurements
   
53.063   Special arrangements
Sewer Rates
   
53.075   Definition
   
53.076   Revenues and accounts
   
53.077   Notice of rates; access to records
   
53.078   Appeals
   
53.079   Basis for charge
   
53.080   Measurement of flow
   
53.081   User charges; computation
   
53.082   Surcharge fee
   
53.083   Fee for sewer tap-on
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent, or representative.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. The charge levied on users to improve, extend,
or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive sewer,
storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments, or
places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the MANHOLE shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal, and coverage of loan, bond, or the like outstanding.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
other.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 466 et seq.), as
amended, (Pub. Law No. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works, as provided for by Title II (“Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act”) and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from sewer by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A sewer shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly
pretreated and the sewer does not interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial,
or business establishment or process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The Superintendent or other person or persons duly authorized by
the city to inspect and approve the installation of building sewer and their
connection to the sanitary sewer system.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Schools, churches, penal institutions, and
users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance, and replacements costs, such as debt service and capital
improvement costs.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. Any non-governmental user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (MG/L).
      (1)   A unit of the concentration of water or sewer constituent. It is
0.001 grams of the constituent in 1,000 milliliter of water.
      (2)   It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million,
to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
sewer analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private cooperation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. Used to evaluate the impact of industrial or other
waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100 gallons
of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of suspended
solids.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of sewer from sources before introduction into
the sewer treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewer, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewer within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary sewer
or combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with city funds.
   REPLACEMENT.
      (1)   Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
      (2)   The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes REPLACEMENT.
   RESERVE FUND CHARGE. A revolving fund for expansion and construction of the
sewer system.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, buildings, mobile
homes, apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with SEWER.
   SEWER. The system of sewer and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, and pumping of sewage. SEWER is the spent water of a community.
From this standpoint, of course, it may be a combination of the liquid and
water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants,
and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater
that may be present.
   SEWER FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewer system.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of
the sewer facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE shall be computed as outlined herein
and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the local capital
cost, and a surcharge, if applicable.
   SEWER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for treating
sewer, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with WASTE
TREATMENT PLANT or SEWER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works, as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of
State of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface, and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewer.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than average concentration values as established by code.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS).
      (1)   Solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in
water, sewage, or industrial waste and which are removable by a laboratory
filtration device.
      (2)   Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of Laboratories
Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewer and sewer treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost
operation, maintenance, and replacement.
   USER CLASS. The type of user, either residential or commercial or non-
industrial or industrial, as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the state water pollution regulations.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-1)
§ 53.002 USE OF PUBLIC WASTEWATERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Deposit of wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste
which ordinarily would be regarded as sewage or industrial waste.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-4)
   (B)   Sewage in natural outlet. It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city or in area under the jurisdiction of the city
any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-5)
   (C)   Private system, unlawful. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-6)
   (D)   Connection to system required.
      (1)   The owner of all the houses, buildings, or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer
of the city is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet of the nearest property line.
      (2)   This division (D) is not applicable in cases where the downstream
sanitary sewer system or treatment capacity is presently not sufficient to
accommodate the expected flow and strength of the proposed connection.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-7)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.003 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Private sewage system. Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
under the provisions of §
53.002(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-10)
   (B)   Health Department approval. Before commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
from the appropriate Health Department. The application for such permit shall
be made on a form furnished by the city which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications, and other information as deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $100 shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-11)
   (C)   Permit approval. A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and in any event the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of written notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-12)
   (D)   Compliance with state requirements. The type, capacities, location,
and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the State Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and
with the State Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for
any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than 40,000 square feet. No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-13)
   (E)   Availability of public wastewater. At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as
provided in §
53.002(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-14)
   (F)   Operation of private system. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-15)
   (G)   Additional restrictions. No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Local Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-16)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.004 EXTENSION OF COLLECTING WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Permit required; authorized personnel. No person, other than an
authorized employee of the city, shall make any connection with, uncover,
alter, or disturb a city sewer or open any manhole, intercepting chamber, or
any appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit to do so from
the city, and no person shall make any connection or opening into any sewer,
the flow of which is directly or indirectly discharged into any city sewer,
without first obtaining a written permit to do so from the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-42)
   (B)   Extension permits. Issuance of sewer extension permits shall be
initiated by an application for construction permit. The application shall be
made on the forms provided by the IEPA, shall be fully completed by the
applicable persons or parties, and shall be accompanied by a set of plans,
specifications, and any other information as may be required by the city.
      (1)   Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and approval thereof must be obtained from the city and
IEPA.
      (2)   If the application is in proper form and the sewer extension
indicated therein appears to be in accordance with this division (B) and all
state and federal requirements, the city shall issue the permit for
construction of the sewer. If otherwise, the application for permit shall be
denied by the city. There shall be no fee charged for sewer extension
application or permits.
      (3)   If the application is denied by the city, they shall state the
reason or reasons therefor in writing, mailed or personally delivered to the
applicant. The applicant shall have the right to amend such application in
conformity with the reasons given for denial and resubmit it to the city for
further consideration.
      (4)   All permits issued under this chapter shall have an expiration date
of two years after the date of issuance. Any sewer not constructed prior to the
date of expiration shall have a new application submitted and a new permit
issued prior to their construction.
      (5)   The applicant for the permit shall furnish a corporate surety bond
in an amount one and one-half times the cost of the contemplated work for which
the permit is to be issued.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-43)
   (C)   Materials. All sewer extensions shall be constructed of the following
materials.
      (1)   Sewer pipe with diameters eight inches and larger shall be one of
the following:
         (a)   ABS composite pipe conforming to ASTM D-2680 with solvent weld
joints or O-ring rubber gasket joints, as referenced in ASTM D-2680; or
         (b)   PVC sewer pipe SDR-35 conforming to ASTM 03033 or D3034 with
joints conforming to ASTM D3212.
      (2)   Laterals and fittings from the sewer to the property lines shall be
six inches in diameter and:
         (a)   Of comparable material to the sewer main for VCP and PVC pipe;
and
         (b)   For ABS pipe use, ABS solid wall pipe SDR-23.5 conforming to
ASTM D-2751.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-44)
   (D)   Inspections of construction.
      (1)   Construction of the sewer shall be inspected under competent
supervision supplied by a registered professional engineer, and upon completion
of construction, accurate detailed plans as constructed (“record drawings”)
shall be certified and submitted by the professional engineer to the city
before any applications for building sewer permits are filed, all at the
expense of the owner. These plans shall show all elevations as installed as
well as accurate measurements showing the locations of service connections. The
engineer shall also submit a certified statement showing the source, place, and
volume of foreign waters.
      (2)   All sewer shall be subjected to:
         (a)   A lamp test, which shall provide that from one manhole to
another, at least one-half of the pipe end area shall be visible;
         (b)   Infiltration or exfiltration test with acceptable allowance of
200 gallons per day per inch diameter per mile; and
         (c)   Under special circumstances, when approved by the city, air
pressure testing with allowance to be specified by the city.
      (3)   When any sewer line fails to pass the infiltration test, the
exfiltration test, or an air pressure test, the sewer line shall be televised
in the presence of the city’s representatives to determine points of faulty
construction. The owner shall repair all defects; the method of repair shall be
subject to the approval of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-45)
   (E)   Manholes required.
      (1)   Manholes shall be installed at all changes in grade and/or
direction and at distances not greater than 400 feet apart.
      (2)   All manhole covers shall be watertight and self-sealing,
incorporating an O-ring gasket.
      (3)   All covers shall have concealed pick holes. Where manhole covers
may be subjected to frequent and extreme submergence, additional water-
tightness shall be ensured by using bolt-down covers.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-46)
§ 53.005 DISTURBING SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-21) Penalty, see §
50.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 53.020 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance with regulating authorities. All disposal by any person
into the sewer system is unlawful except those discharges in compliance with
federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal Act and more stringent
state and local standards.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-22)
   (B)   Public wastewater connection. The connection of the building sewer
into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the Building and
Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of
Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9,
and State Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city before
installation.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-35)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.021 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Damage. No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-65)
   (B)   Inspection and testing. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the city, the State Environmental Protection Agency, and the
United States Environmental Agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representative
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewer or
waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-66)
   (C)   Liability of city. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (B) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the city, the State Environmental Protection Agency,
and the United States Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and the city
shall indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain conditions as required in §
53.062(A).
(Prior Code, § 38-4-67)
   (D)   Private property inspections. The Superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement, shall be done in full accordance
with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private
property involved.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-68)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.022 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits as follows:
      (1)   Residential sewer service; and
      (2)   Service to commercial or institutional establishments or industrial
sewer service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make applications
on a special form furnished by the city. The fee per connection shall be paid
to the city at the time the application is filed pursuant to this section.
   (C)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, shall
provide information describing its sewer constituents, characteristics, and
type of activity.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-23)
§ 53.023 COSTS BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses including labor and material incidental to the
installation, connection, and maintenance of a lateral sewer line shall be
borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the city from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation,
connection, and maintenance of the lateral sewer lines. This section shall
apply even where the lateral sewer line runs under a public street, public
right-of-way, or public easement.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-24)
§ 53.024 BOND REQUIRED.
   If the applicant for the building sewer permit does not have a general bond
on file with the city, the applicant shall furnish a corporate surety bond in
an amount one and one-half times the cost of the contemplated work for which
the permit is to be issued.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-37)
BUILDING WASTEWATER CONSTRUCTION AND USE REGULATIONS
§ 53.035 SEPARATE WASTEWATER; EXCEPTIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, except for sewer connection charges
accruing from such buildings or properties.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-25)
§ 53.036 OLD BUILDING WASTEWATER.
   Old building sewer may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-26)
§ 53.037 CONSTRUCTION METHODS; PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Construction methods.
      (1)   The size, slope, depth, and alignment of the building sewer shall
be subject to the approval of the Superintendent. In no case shall the inside
diameter of the building sewer be less than four inches. If six-inch diameter
pipe is used, the slope shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot. If
four-inch or five-inch diameter pipe is used, the slope shall not be less one-
fourth inch per foot. The depth of the building sewer shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost.
      (2)   The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight
alignment, insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings, unless the break in alignment is made at a
manhole facilitating servicing.
      (3)   Installation shall be in accordance with State Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction. All building sewer shall
be constructed of materials approved by the city. Generally, all building sewer
shall be constructed of the following materials:
         (a)   Ductile iron pipe; and
         (b)   PVC solid wall plastic pipe (6-inch diameter maximum) SDR-35.
      (4)   All pipe joints must be gas-tight and watertight and are subject to
the approval of the city. Transition joints from one pipe material to another
shall be made using fittings manufactured for such transitions.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-27)
   (B)   Plumbing Code requirements.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
      (2)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and State Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-28)
   (C)   Elevation
      (1)    Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in accordance with §
53.020(A) and discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-29)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.038 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.039 CONNECTIONS TO WASTEWATER MAINS.
   (A)   (1)   Building sewer connections with any sewer shall be made only at
manholes or other such junctions as may be provided or designated by the city,
and then only in such manner as directed.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer shall be made at a wye branch,
if such branch is available. The building service sewer shall generally enter
the sewer main or lateral by way of an existing wye.
   (B)   In the event of absence of the wye, the connection to the sewer main
or lateral shall be made by one of the methods indicated below.
      (1)   Installation of a manhole.
         (a)   Circular saw-cut sewer main by proper tools (“sewer tap” machine
or similar), and proper installation of hub wye saddle, in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendation. This method shall not be allowed when the wye
branch is larger than four inches in diameter. The entire sewer main in the
location of the wye and the wye shall be encased in concrete.
         (b)   Using the pipe cutter only, neatly and accurately cut out
desired length of pipe for insertion of proper fitting. Remove both hub and
bell ends or other compression couplings from wye branch fitting to allow the
wye branch to be inserted with no more than a total of one-half-inch gap.
            1.   Use band seal couplings or similar couplings and shear rings
and clamps to fasten the inserted fitting and hold it firmly in place. The
entire section shall then be encased in concrete having a minimum thickness of
four inches and extending eight inches beyond each joint.
            2.   If another method is desired, a detail shall be submitted for
review and approval by the city before the connection is made. Indiscriminate
breaking of the sewer main pipe is not allowed.
      (2)   On-site inspection. After the wye branch has been inserted and
jointed and before any additional fittings have been placed in the service
line, the installation shall be approved by the Superintendent or his or her
authorized representative. After approval is granted, the contractor shall
encase the work area as specified herein.
      (3)   Backfill. Backfill is to be placed in accordance with the State
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction, current edition.
In addition, any building sewer crossing any street or traveled alley shall be
backfilled with CA-86 backfill material.
      (4)   Concrete encasement. When a riser is constructed and its height is
four feet or more, measured from the flowline of the sewer main to the top of
the riser pipe, the wye connection shall be encased in concrete to a height of
at least one foot, six inches above the flowline of the sewer main. When the
height of the riser is less than four feet above the flowline of the sewer
main, the wye connection shall be backfilled to the top of the riser pipe with
carefully placed and compacted granular backfill.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-31)
§ 53.040 CAPACITY OF WASTEWATER.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewer facilities
(including sewer, pump stations, and sewer treatment facilities) have
sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional
anticipated waste load.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-32)
§ 53.041 SUPERVISION AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Tap-in supervision and testing. The applicant for the building sewer
permit shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative. At any time
after the installation of the building sewer, the city may test the building
sewer for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-33)
   (B)   Inspection.
      (1)   After the building sewer has been constructed in the trench but
before the sewer is backfilled, the applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the Superintendent that the building sewer is ready for
inspection.
      (2)   If the sewer has been constructed properly, permission will be
given to backfill the trench.
      (3)   If the sewer construction is found to be unsuitable, the permit
applicant will correct the installation to meet city’s requirements.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-34)
§ 53.042 EXCAVATIONS GUARDED.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-36)
§ 53.043 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-38)
USE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES
§ 53.055 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-49)
   (B)   (1)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewer as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.
      (2)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged on approval of the city to a storm sewer or natural outlet,
(Prior Code, § 38-4-50) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.056 REGULATIONS OF WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solids, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewer, or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-51) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.057 HARMFUL EFFECTS OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   (A)    (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either
the sewer, sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewer,
materials of construction of the sewer, nature of the sewage treatment process,
capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the
sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F
(0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste odor-
producing substances in such concentration exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hq,
at any time, except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5; and
      (12)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time, except as
permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-52) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.058 HARMFUL WASTES; APPROVAL.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewer, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.057(B) and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment
provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403, June 26, 1978, and any amendments thereto and
which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates for discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
53.004.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants, and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, articles, and laws.
   (C)   The owner of the pretreatment or equalization facilities shall obtain
construction and operating permits from the State Environmental Protection
Agency prior to the issuance of final approval by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Where multiple process or discharges are present or contemplated at an
industry, the city shall have the authority to require the owner or person to
furnish and install more than one control manhole with appurtenances and/or
require that all sewer be discharged through a single-control manhole or
structure with appurtenances described herein.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-53)
§ 53.059 INTERCEPTORS PROVIDED.
   (A)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code to assure the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand, or
other harmful ingredients; except, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   All grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste content as required or at a minimum of once every four months
in order to maintain minimum design capability or effective volume of the
grease interceptor and to prevent carry over of grease into the sanitary sewer
system. All fast food and sit-down restaurants shall install a grease
interceptor with a capacity of at least 1,500 gallons and designed in
accordance with Appendix A. Food establishments that serve a minimum amount of
fried foods (such as deli sandwich shops) shall install a grease interceptor
with a capacity of at least 1,000 gallons and designed in accordance with
Appendix B.
   (B)   Users whose operations cause or allow excessive grease to discharge or
accumulate in the city wastewater collection and treatment system may be liable
to the city for costs related to service calls for sewer line blockages, line
cleaning, line and pump repairs, and the like, including all labor, materials,
and equipment. Failure to pay all service related charges may also be grounds
for sewer service discontinuance.
   (C)   A grease trap cleaning/maintenance log indicating each pumping for the
previous 24 months shall be maintained by each food service facility. This log
shall include the date, time, amount pumped, hauler, and disposal site and
shall be kept in a conspicuous location for inspection. Said log shall be made
available to the city or his or her representative upon request.
   (D)   Each user shall submit all cleaning and maintenance records to the
city. The maintenance records shall include the following information:
      (1)   Facility name, address, contact person, and phone number;
      (2)   Company name, address, phone number, and contact name of person
responsible for performing the maintenance, cleaning, pumping, or repair of
grease trap;
      (3)   Types of maintenance performed;
      (4)   Dates maintenance was performed;
      (5)   Date of next scheduled maintenance;
      (6)   Copies of manifests; and
      (7)   The user shall be required to submit maintenance records to the
city on an annual basis. Records shall be submitted by September 1 of each
year. The records shall be submitted to: Attn: Wastewater Superintendent
   (E)   (1)   The city will perform periodic inspections of these facilities
and shall notify the user of any additional required maintenance or repairs.
      (2)   Upon written notification by the city, the user shall be required
to perform the maintenance and records of said maintenance within 14 calendar
days.
      (3)   Upon inspection by the city, the user may be required to install,
at his or her expense, additional controls to provide a complete system which
prevents discharges of undesirable materials into the wastewater collection
system.
   (F)   Control plan for fats, oils, greases (fog), and food waste shall
include the following.
      (1)   Any new construction, renovation, or expansion of food service
facilities shall be required to submit to the city a FOG and Food Waste Control
Plan that will effectively control the discharge of undesirable materials into
the wastewater collection system.
      (2)   Any existing food service facilities shall also be required to
submit a FOG and Food Waste Control Plan that will effectively control the
discharge of undesirable materials into the wastewater collection system.
Existing facilities shall not be exempt from the requirements of this section.
There will be no grandfathering.
   (G)   Should existing facilities be hampered by space constraints or
restrictions caused by unchangeable plumbing, an alternative interceptor may be
approved, provided that:
      (1)   Said interceptor and installation is endorsed by a licensed
plumbing contractor in regard to its operability;
      (2)   Said interceptor and installation is endorsed by the City Engineer;
and
      (3)   Said interceptor and installation is approved by the Superintendent
and the Water and Sewer Committee.
   (H)   Such installations may be subject to more stringent inspections and
maintenance schedules.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-54)
§ 53.060 FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-55)
§ 53.061 INDUSTRIAL WASTES CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when
required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-56)
§ 53.062 TESTING AND MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   Industrial waste testing.
      (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
      (2)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than
once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the sewer discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-57)
   (B)   Measurements and tests. All measurements, tests, and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole.
      (1)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
      (2)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-58)
§ 53.063 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor in accordance with the
chapter hereof by the industrial concern provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-59)
SEWER RATES
§ 53.075 DEFINITION.
   BUILDING UNIT shall be all persons or families residing in a building under
one roof, be it an apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling
place, each family or individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an
individual customer or such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed
for at least one minimum water and/or sewer account according to the number of
families or individual residents residing therein.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-71)
§ 53.076 REVENUES AND ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Sewer revenues.
      (1)   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewer
system shall be deposited in the Water Fund. All such revenues and monies shall
be held by the Treasurer separate and apart from his or her private funds and
separate and apart from all other funds of the city and all of said sum,
without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the Treasurer not more
than ten days after receipt of the same or at such more frequent intervals as
may, from time to time, be directed by the City Council.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water and
sewer systems and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such
system as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the City Water and Sewage Fund. The Treasurer
shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by 65 ILCS
5/3.1-35-40 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-72)
   (B)   Sewer accounts. The Treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water and
sewer systems, and at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be
made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the
receipts and disbursements of the water and sewer systems.
      (1)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the sewer
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do, in fact, meet these
regulations.
      (2)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
         (a)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the sewer plant for
the current fiscal year;
         (b)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
         (c)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
         (d)   Number of users connected to the system;
         (e)   Number of non-metered users; and
         (f)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial
users) and volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-73)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 et seq.
§ 53.077 NOTICE OF RATES; ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   (A)   Notice of rates. A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the
City Clerk, shall be filed in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds and
shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewer
system of the city on their properties. Each user shall be notified at least
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to sewer treatment services.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-74)
   (B)   Access to records. The State Environmental Protection Agency, United
States Environmental Protection Agency, or its authorized representative shall
have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the city which are
applicable to the city’s system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for
the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions thereof
to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to
any state grant or loan.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-75)
§ 53.078 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges shall be made available to a user within 15 days of receipt of a
written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the
computation thereof shall be remedied by a third party selected by both parties
within 90 days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-76)
§ 53.079 BASIS FOR CHARGE.
   The sewer service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
sewer facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge, applicable
surcharges, and debt service charge.
   (A)   The debt service charge is computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding bonds by the number of users.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters for wastes having the following normal domestic concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 204 mg/1; and
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 240 mg/l.
   (C)   It shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate sewer volume, pounds of SS, and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the sewer facilities
including a replacement fund for the year for all work categories;
      (3)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance, and replacement
(OM&R) costs to each user class by volume, BOD, and SS;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance, and replacement
(OM&R) costs to sewer facility categories by volume, suspended solids, and BOD;
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound per 1,000 gallons in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (D)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waste waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD 204 mg/l and SS 240 mg/l. The surcharge
will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for
all wastes which exceed the 204 mg/l and 240 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively. The procedure to compute a surcharge is specified in §
53.081(B).
   (E)   The adequacy of the sewer service charge shall be reviewed not less
often than annually by certified public accountants for the city in its annual
audit report. The sewer service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in operation and maintenance costs, replacement costs, and Reserve
Fund costs.
   (F)   The capital improvement charge is levied on users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions, or reconstruction of the sewage treatment
works. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual
amount to be accrued as a charge per 1,000 gallons.
   (G)   The users of sewer treatment services will be notified annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the sewer treatment operation, maintenance,
and replacement.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-77)
§ 53.080 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
1,000 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewer procures any
part or all of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewer, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the approving authority if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed and maintained by the person and owned by the city. Following
approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is
canceled, without the consent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-78)
§ 53.081 USER CHARGES; COMPUTATION.
   (A)   Sewer user charges. The following sewer charges shall apply to all
users of the sewer wastewater system based upon the amount of water consumed by
the user:
Commercial — Inside City Limits
First 1,000 gallons  $17 minimum per month
Over 1,000 gallons   $2 per 1,000 gallons
County Public Housing
First 12,000 gallons $204 minimum per month
County Public Housing
Over 12,000 gallons  $2 per 1,000 gallons
Residential - Inside City Limits
First 1,000 gallons  $17 minimum per month
Over 1,000 gallons   $2 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Prior Code, § 38-4-79)
   (B)   Computation of wastewater service charge. The sewer service charge
shall be computed by the following:
CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu - X)CU + CS
CC Capital improvement charge
CD Debt service charge
CM Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, and replacement
CS Surcharge, if applicable
CU Basic user rate for operation, maintenance, and replacement
CW Amount of waste service charge ($) per bill period.
Vu Sewer volume for the billing period
X  Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
 
(Prior Code, § 38-4-80)
§ 53.082 SURCHARGE FEE.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as follows:
   (A)   Per pound of BOD: $0.26 in excess of 200 mg/l; and
   (B)   Per pound of SS: $0.39 in excess of 225 mg/l.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-81)
§ 53.083 FEE FOR SEWER TAP-ON.
   (A)   The sewer tap-on fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a family residence, the charge shall be $50; and
      (2)   For a multiple dwelling unit or a trailer court, the charge shall
be $50 for each dwelling unit.
   (B)   For any store or establishment used for commercial purposes, the sum
of $50 for each connection; if a building is erected to house more than one
commercial establishment, the charge shall be the sum of $50 for each such
establishment to be served with the sewer connection.
   (C)   If an industrial facility or other establishment, other than as
designated in divisions (A) or (B) above or this division (C), desires a sewer
connection, the sewer charge shall be a minimum of $50, and the fee may be set
on the basis of the ratio of use that the facility would bear to the normal
residential use as may be determined by the Superintendent or engineer of the
city.
   (D)   For any single-family residence or multiple-family dwelling, for
commercial or industrial taps made outside the corporate limits, the tap-on fee
shall be $1,000.
   (E)   A fee of $50 for each tap-on connection inside the corporate limits to
the city’s sewer system main for sewer service and for all additional tap-on
fees for a sewer connection to the city sewer system is to be paid by the
contractor upon approval of an application for service for each connection. The
contractor shall be a certified plumber and provide proof of a valid license.
   (F)   All additional fees for a sewer service connection to the city sewer
system shall be the responsibility of each applicant.
   (G)   No sewer service shall be provided to anyone outside the city limits,
except to the school district.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-82) (Ord. 14-04, passed 7-8-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Illinois Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.02   Applicability
   
70.03   Obedience to police, firefighters
   
70.04   Signs and signals
   
70.05   Bicycles
   
70.06   Street designations
   
70.07   Equipment of vehicles
   
70.08   Vehicle impoundment
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS and 1 ILCS, entitled “Title and
Definitions,” as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly,
is hereby adopted by the city; the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 1 ILCS, 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2, 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, and 625
ILCS
§ 70.02 APPLICABILITY.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11206
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE, FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Obedience to police. Members of the Police Department, special police,
and auxiliary police assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this traffic code or in
emergencies, as public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order,
signal, or direction of a police officer. Except in cases of emergency, it
shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to
direct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-1)
   (B)   Scene of fire. The Fire Department officer in command or any
firefighter designated by him or her may exercise the powers and authority of a
police officer in directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire
Department has responded to an emergency call for so long as the Fire
Department equipment is on the scene in the absence of or in assisting the
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-203
§ 70.04 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Signs and signals. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle
to disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by
authority of the corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the
state, except upon direction of a police officer. All signs and signals
established by direction of the governing body shall conform to the State
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways. (See 625
ILCS 5/11-301.)
(Prior Code, § 24-2-3)
   (B)   Unauthorized signs.
      (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic nor shall any person or place maintain or display, upon or
in view of any street, any other sign which hides from view or interferes with
the movement of traffic or effectiveness of any traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
      (2)   No tree, bush, or foliage of any kind shall be so placed,
maintained, allowed to remain, or be displayed upon either public or private
property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement
of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic control device, sign, or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-4)
   (C)   Interference with signs or signals. It shall be unlawful for any
person to deface, injure, move, or interfere with any official traffic sign or
signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-5)
   (D)   Advertising signs. It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the
city any sign, signal, marking, or device other than a traffic sign or signal
authorized by the City Council or the State Department of Transportation, which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device or railroad sign or signal in view of any street or highway, and it
shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any
lawful traffic control device. It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any
flashing or rotating beacon of light in view of any street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-6)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-301
§ 70.05 BICYCLES.
   When used at nighttime, every bicycle shall be equipped with the following:
   (A)   A lamp upon the front which emits a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front;
   (B)   A red reflector on the rear which shall be visible to a distance of
600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights
on a motor vehicle;
   (C)   A reflex reflector on each pedal visible from the front and rear of
the bicycle from a distance up to 200 feet when viewed within the lawful lower
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle; and
   (D)   Side reflectors upon each side of the bicycle which shall be visible
up to a distance of 500 feet when viewed directly in front of a lawful lower
beam of motor vehicle headlights. The requirements of this division (D) may be
met by reflective materials which shall be at least three-sixteenths of an inch
wide on each side of each tire or rim which may indicate as clearly as possible
the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 STREET DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Through streets. The streets and parts of streets of the city
designated by ordinance as “through streets” are hereby declared to be through
streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-1)
   (B)   One-way streets or alleys. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
on any streets or alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance
in any direction other than that so designated.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-2)
   (C)   Stop streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a
stop sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance
at one or more entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or
approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at
such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty; in which event,
the directions of the police officer shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-3)
   (D)   Yield right-of-way streets.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, in obedience to
such sign, shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions
and (if required, for safety, to stop) shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
      (2)   After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving
across or within the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-4)
   (E)   Posting signs. Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through,
stop, and yield right-of-way streets; all one-way streets and alleys; and all
stop intersections.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-5)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-208, 625 ILCS 5/11-302, and 625 ILCS
5/11-304
§ 70.07 EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   State Vehicle Code; equipment of vehicles adopted. The State Vehicle
Code, 625 ILCS 12, as passed, approved, and amended by the State General
Assembly, is hereby adopted by the city, and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-1)
   (B)   Muffler. No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such
vehicle is provided with a muffler in efficient, actual working condition, and
the use of a cut-out is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud
or excessive noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-2)
   (C)   Sound amplification system. No driver of any motor vehicle within this
city shall operate or permit operation of any sound amplification system which
can be heard outside the vehicle from 75 feet or more when the vehicle is being
operated upon a highway, unless such system is being operated to request
assistance or warn of a hazardous situation. This division (C) shall not apply
to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-3)
   (D)   Excessive engine braking noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful for an
operator of a commercial vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-111.8, to operate
or actuate any engine braking system within the city that emits excessive noise
unless it is an emergency. The Superintendent is authorized and directed to
post signs stating: “EXCESSIVE ENGINE BRAKING NOISE PROHIBITED” at appropriate
locations.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-4)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 12, 625 ILCS 5/12-602, 625 ILCS 5/12-605,
625 ILCS 5/12-605.1, 625 ILCS 5/12-605.2, 625 ILCS 5/12-611, and 625 ILCS 5/1-
111.8
§ 70.08 VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      KNOWINGLY. A person who engages in conduct KNOWINGLY if, when a person
engages in conduct, the person is aware of a high probability that he or she is
doing so.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled including, but not
limited to, all automobiles, trucks, motorcycles and motor scooters, ATVs,
UTVs, and golf carts.
      OWNERS OF RECORD. The record title holder of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-1)
   (B)   Conduct prohibited. The following activities are hereby prohibited:
      (1)   Operation or use of motor vehicle in the commission of or in the
attempt to commit any misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961;
      (2)   Operation or use of motor vehicle in the commission of or in the
attempt to commit a felony;
      (3)   Operation or use of motor vehicle while in the commission of or in
attempt to commit an offense in violation of the State Controlled Substance
Act;
      (4)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess a controlled substance, as defined by the
State Controlled Substances Act;
      (5)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or otherwise violate the Cannabis
Control Act;
      (6)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof in violation of
§ 11-01;
      (7)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303; except that vehicles
shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an
unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with emission
testing;
      (8)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s
license in violation of § 6-101 if the period of expiration is greater than one
year;
      (9)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver’s license or permit, in violation of § 6-101, or operating a motor
vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license or permit due to a
person’s age;
      (10)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in the state for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated §§ 6-101, 6-303, or 11-601; and/or
      (11)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in the
attempt to commit an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 1961.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-2)
   (C)   Seizure and impoundment. Whenever a police officer has probable cause
to believe that a vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to
this traffic code, the police officer shall provide the towing of the vehicle
to a facility controlled by the city or its agents. This division (C) shall not
apply if the vehicle used in the violation of division (B) above was stolen at
the time of the alleged violation and the theft was reported to the appropriate
police authorities within 72 hours after the theft was discovered or reasonably
should have been discovered. For any towing company or storage facility to
become approved by the city, such must provide proof of insurance coverage to
cover loss by fire, theft, or other risks and be open or available for business
as required by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-3)
   (D)   Initial notice. At the time the vehicle is towed, the Police
Department shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner,
lessee, or person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the
vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged offense as follows:
      (1)   The fact of the seizure of the vehicle;
      (2)   The vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative hearing;
and
      (3)   The vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion of an
administrative hearing, unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or lienholder
posts with the municipality a bond equal to the administrative fee as provided
by ordinance and pays for all towing and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-4)
   (E)   Follow-up notice.
      (1)   Within ten days after a vehicle is impounded, the Police Department
shall provide further notice by personal service or by first-class mail to
interested parties (including the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and
any lienholder or record) to the address(es) of the interested parties as
registered with the Secretary of State. Such further notice shall contain the
date, time, and location of the administrative hearing.
      (2)   An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45
days after the date of the mailing of the notice of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-5)
   (F)   Fees for release of vehicle.
      (1)   The following or bond (being in addition to any other penalties
that may be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations) are
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner and shall be paid to the Police Department for the release of an
impounded vehicle. The sum of $100 for city administrative fees plus towing and
storage fees as established by the city or an approved towing and storage
contractor of the city.
      (2)   If the owner or agent of the owner does not seek a hearing, they
shall pay the required fee and sign a waiver of hearing. If the owner or agent
of owner seeks a hearing, they shall pay the required fee and costs, which the
City Treasurer shall hold as a bond pending the results of the administrative
hearing as initially scheduled by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-6)
   (G)   Hearings. Administrative hearings shall be conducted by an
Administrative Hearing Officer being the City Attorney or other attorney as
time to time appointed by the city who is an attorney licensed to practice law
in this state for a minimum of three years.
      (1)   The date and time of the initial hearing shall be scheduled by the
Police Department and notice of such shall be provided by the above-mentioned
follow-up notice. An interested party may request a change to the date and time
of the initial hearing by contacting the City Clerk. The initial hearing shall
be conducted no later than 45 days after the date of the follow-up notice.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall determine
by a preponderance of evidence whether or not the police officer directing the
impoundment of the vehicle had cause to believe that the vehicle was subject to
impoundment under this chapter. The party seeking return of the vehicle shall
bear the burden of proof. Formal rules of evidence shall not be applicable to
the hearing. The party seeking return of the vehicle fails to appear to the
hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a default order sustaining the
impoundment.
      (3)   (a)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment. If the Administrative Hearing Officer overrules the
impoundment, the vehicle shall be released (if not already released) and any
bond posted shall be refunded to the party posting the bond. If the
Administrative Hearing Officer sustains the vehicle impoundment, any bond
posted to secure the release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the
municipality.
         (b)   If no bond was posted, the vehicle shall remain impounded until
all fees are paid or the vehicle is deemed abandoned. Fees owed the city may be
collected and enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction unless such collection action is stayed by a court of
competent jurisdiction. All final decisions of the Administrative Hearing
Officer shall be subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative
Review Law.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-7)
   (H)   Monies deposited. All fees collected and retained by the city for
violation of this chapter, after payment of towing and storage charges, shall
be deposited with the City Treasurer. The funds will be directed for the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-8-8)
(Ord. 14-11, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this traffic
code for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Parking violations.
      (1)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the length of time a
vehicle may be there parked, as outlined in Chapter 72, may settle and
compromise the claim against him or her for such illegal parking by paying to
the city $50 for each such offense. Such payment may be made at the City Hall,
and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received and such money shall be
promptly turned over to the Treasurer to be credited to the General Fund. The
members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain from
instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at least five
days.
      (2)   Provided, this section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle
so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police and Fire
Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed or so as to
block an emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this section apply to any
person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any
street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial
street to one-way traffic only nor to any person who refuses to remove a
vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police Department.
         (1)   Removal; time limit. Any vehicle illegally parked for a period
in excess of 24 hours may be removed by a towing service authorized by the
Police Department of the municipality. In any emergency, any vehicle may be
removed by any means when authorized by the Police Department of the
municipality.
         (2)   City parking lots. No person shall park a motor vehicle on a
city parking lot unattended for more than five consecutive days.
         (3)   Parking violation ticket. The parking violation ticket shall be
as set forth in Addendum A of the provisions adopted herein.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-8)
   (C)   Handicap parking violation. Any vehicle parked in violation of §
72.05 in a posted designated handicapped space which does not bear a state
handicapped registration plate or a valid handicapped parking permit issued by
another governmental agency of a city handicapped registration card will be
ticketed, and the vehicle will be removed in accordance with departmental
policies and in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1302. The registered owner of the
vehicle, as ascertained by the registration plates of the vehicle, will be
presumed to be in control of the vehicle and will be fined $200. The same
registered owner will be held liable for the cost of removal of the vehicle and
must pay that cost, plus storage charges, if any, prior to the release of the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Illinois Vehicle Code, Rules of the Road, adopted
   
71.02   Duty to report accident
   
71.03   Transporting liquor in vehicles
   
71.04   Excessive noise
   
71.05   Load limit
Driving Rules and Prohibitions
   
71.20   Careless driving
   
71.21   Drag racing
   
71.22   Fleeing or attempting to elude police
   
71.23   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
71.24   Speed limits
   
71.25   Traffic lane usage
   
71.26   U-turns prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE, RULES OF THE ROAD, ADOPTED.
   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-100 et seq., as passed, approved, and
amended by the State General Assembly, is hereby adopted by the city, and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city
except for the following changes, deletions, and omissions.
   (A)   Omissions. Omit §§ 11-207, 11-208.1, 11-208.2, 11-209.1, 11-302,
11303, 11-310(f), 11-313, 11-401 through 11-416, 11-500 through 11-502, 11-602,
11-603, 11-604, 11-606(b), 11608, 11-1419, and 11-1422.
   (B)   Changes and additions.
         (1)   Change § 11-904(a) to read: “Preferential right-of-way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs, as authorized by this
traffic code;” and
         (2)   Change § 11-1416(a) to read: “Any person who shall willfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other person in
lawfully driving and traveling upon or along any highway within this state or
who shall offer for barter or sale merchandise on said highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a violation of this traffic code.”
(Prior Code, § 24-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-100 et seq.
§ 71.02 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle which is, in any manner, involved in an accident
within the city shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the Police Department
and shall make a report of such action. Failure to report an accident within
the city within 24 hours shall result in arrests of the person or persons
involved.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-415
§ 71.03 TRANSPORTING LIQUOR IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic liquor
within the passenger area of any motor vehicle in this city except in the
original container and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-502
§ 71.04 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   Excessive noise - stopped vehicle. No operator of a motor vehicle
shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped, unreasonably accelerate the engine
thereof with the gears of the vehicle in neutral, thereby causing an
unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-5)
   (B)   Excessive noise - wheels. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when
the motor vehicle is stopped, accelerate the engine with the gears of such
vehicle in neutral and, while so accelerating the engine, shift the gears of
the vehicle into a forward or reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably
loud noise with the drive wheels of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-6)
   (C)   Excessive noise - squealing tires. No operator of a motor vehicle
shall cause the wheels of such vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an
unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-7)
   (D)   Reckless, negligent, or careless driving. It shall be unlawful to
operate any vehicle in the city in a careless, reckless, negligent, or wanton
manner or carelessly so as to endanger life or property.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-8)
   (E)   Excessive noise while driving. No operator of a motor vehicle shall,
when operating the vehicle, accelerate the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle
causing an unreasonably loud noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-9)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-505
§ 71.05 LOAD LIMIT.
   (A)   Load limits.
      (1)   Established. There is hereby established gross load limits on
certain city streets. The term GROSS LOAD LIMIT shall mean the total weight of
a vehicle and the load it is carrying. The specified streets and the load
limits are hereby listed in division (B) below.
      (2)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon any
street where the operation is prohibited by this section and where such signs
of prohibition are posted, except that a vehicle may be driven on such street
for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose of making
deliveries or picking up loads.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section shall not include pickup trucks, trucks
operated by the city maintenance and repairs on the street, or the operation of
a vehicle owned by the U.S. government or state while on lawful business of
these agencies.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-6)
   (B)   Load limit street designated. In accordance with the provisions of
division (A) above, the following streets are hereby designated as load limit
streets, to-wit: No vehicle or any combination of vehicles accompanied with
pneumatic tires shall be operated upon the motor fuel surfaced streets in the
city when the load weight of such vehicle or combination of vehicles on the
road surface through any axle thereof exceeds 20,000 pounds.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Schedule J)
(Ord. 240, passed 8-12-1957) Penalty, see §
70.99
DRIVING RULES AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.20 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the city in a careless manner
so as to interfere with the safe or lawful operation of any other vehicle or so
as to interfere with or to injure, damage, or endanger persons or property
engaged in the lawful use of the street.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.21 DRAG RACING.
   No person shall participate within the city in drag racing as such activity
is defined by 625 ILCS 5/11-504.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-504
§ 71.22 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE.
   (A)   Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a
visual or audible signal by a police officer directing such driver or operator
to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails to or refuses to obey
such direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or her lights, or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer is guilty of a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren,
or red or blue light. Provided, however, the officer giving such signal shall
be in police uniform, and if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked
showing it to be an official police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.23 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   Traffic control signals, signs, or markers owned by the city shall be
possessed only by the city’s employees, police officers, contractors, or its
employees engaged in highway construction, contract, or work upon the roadways
or public ways approved by the city. No person shall possess a traffic control
signal, sign, or marker owned by the city, except as provided in this section,
without the prior written authority of the city. It shall be a violation of
this section for a person to possess such a traffic control signal, sign, or
marker without lawful authority.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-313
§ 71.24 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Special speed limitations on elevated structures. No person shall
drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part
of a highway at a speed which is greater than the maximum speed which can be
maintained with safety to such bridge or structure when such structure is sign-
posted. Upon the trial of any person charged with the violation of this
section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the city and the
existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which can
be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   General speed restrictions. The speed limits on the various streets
shall be approved by the City Council but shall not exceed 20 mph in a school
zone and not to exceed 25 mph on a residential street; otherwise, 30 mph on an
arterial street unless otherwise posted.
   (C)   Special speed limit while passing schools. No person shall drive a
motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph while passing a school zone or
while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass
going to and from school during school days when school children are present.
This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are posted upon
streets and maintained by the city or state wherein the school zone is located.
   (D)   Failure to reduce speed. A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets
and alleys of this city at a speed which is reasonable and proper with regard
to traffic conditions and the use of the street or alley. The fact that the
vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the
driver of the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrian or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1140-1, 625 ILCS 5/11-604, 625 ILCS 5/11-
605, 625 ILCS 5/11-608
§ 71.25 TRAFFIC LANE USAGE.
   Whenever any roadway within the city has been divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane
until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with
safety.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2)
§ 71.26 U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall make a U-turn on any street or at any
intersection of any streets in the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Time limit parking
   
72.02   Parking for sale or repair
   
72.03   Private property
   
72.04   Where stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
   
72.05   Handicap parking
   
72.06   Towing cars
   
72.07   Parking tickets; prima facie proof
   
72.08   Parking in snow routes
§ 72.01 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 WHERE STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; and
         (l)   In any alley that is open and maintained.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers):
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); and
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers):
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking; and
         (c)   In yellow zones.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   
Chapter 73, Schedule II, shall list all applicable no-parking zones.
   (D)   No person shall park any vehicle, vehicles, or trailer the length of
which exceeds 20 feet or any second division vehicle licensed for an “F”
classification or higher:
      (1)   Upon any street, alley, or any public way within the city except
for the purpose and time period reasonably necessary to load and unload the
same; and
      (2)   Upon public or private property within the city with the motor
running for a continuous period in excess of 30 minutes. (See § 25-1-1 for
motor transport engines running in a residential neighborhood.)
(Prior Code, § 24-6-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/3-815
§ 72.05 HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   Designated parking. Certain parking spaces within the confines of the
city shall be designated for use by handicapped persons’ vehicles only and will
be posted with appropriate signs to that effect.
   (B)   Use of designated handicapped parking. The use of designated
handicapped parking locations duly posted and signed shall, to that effect, be
open to any vehicle which bears the appropriate handicapped state registration
plate issued by the Secretary of State or a valid handicapped parking permit
issued by another governmental agency or which bears a handicapped card
furnished in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq. furnished by the
city.
   (C)   Application for state handicapped registration plate. The issuance of
an state handicapped motor vehicle registration plate shall be made with the
Secretary of State at any facility provided and approved for that purpose by
the Secretary of State.
   (D)   Handicapped parking areas. Those places designated as handicapped
parking spaces are listed in Schedule “H” of the provisions herein codified.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq., 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2,
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(C), and 625 ILCS 5/11-1302
§ 72.06 TOWING CARS.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service any car, boat, trailer, or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
   (B)   Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any city property or in a
public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the city in removing and
storing such vehicle(s).
(Prior Code, § 24-6-7)
§ 72.07 PARKING TICKETS; PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   (A)   Prima facie proof. The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked
or operated is registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima
facie proof that such person was in control of the vehicle at the time of such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-9)
   (B)   Parking tickets - state statute. The City Council intends to utilize
625 ILCS 5/6-306.5 and the procedure set forth therein. The appropriate
authorities are hereby authorized to utilize the statute and the procedure set
forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5
§ 72.08 PARKING IN SNOW ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on the following designated streets
at any time within 18 hours after a snowfall of three inches or more, unless
the street has been cleared of snow. (See Schedule “S.”)
(Prior Code, § 24-6-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through and stop intersections
      
II.   No-parking zones
SCHEDULE I: THROUGH AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Through Street Stop Street (Direction)
Through Street        Stop Street (Direction)
Blue Street (Rt. 166) All Intersecting Streets
Borton Street         Brown Street (South Bd.)
Boundary Street       Cemetery Street (North Bd.)
Boundary Street       Line Street (North Bd.)
Boundary Street       Railroad Street (North Bd.)
Brown Street          Creal Street (West Bd.)
Brown Street          Jefferson Street (West Bd.)
Brown Street          Sherman Street (West Bd.)
Brown Street          Wilson Street (East Bd.)
Jefferson Street      Garfield Street (South Bd.)
Jefferson Street      Magnesia Street (South Bd.)
Jefferson Street      Main Street (South Bd.)
Johnson Street        Chamness Street (Both)
Johnson Street        Harris Street (West Bd.)
Keely Street          Harris Street (South Bd.)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Boundary Street (East Bd.)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Cemetery Street (West Bd.)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Chamness Street (East Bd.)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Creal Street (Both)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Harris Street (East Bd.)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Jefferson Street (Both)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Pitkin Street (West Bd.)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Sherman Street (Both)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Sterling Street (West Bd.)
Line Street (C.H. 18) Wilson Street (West Bd.)
Logan Street          Bennett Street (East Bd.)
Logan Street          Henshaw Street (Both)
Logan Street          Union Street (Both)
Logan Street          Wilson Street (West Bd.)
Pitkin Street         DeBolt Street (South Bd.)
Pitkin Street         Eubank Street (South Bd.)
Pitkin Street         Otrich Street (Both)
Railroad Street       Chamness Street (West Bd.)
Sherman Street        Magnesia Street (North Bd.)
Sherman Street        S. Line Street (Both)
Soldiers Street       Borton Street (North Bd.)
Sterling Street       DeBolt Street (South Bd.)
Sterling Street       Eubank Street (South Bd.)
Sterling Street       Otrich Street (East Bd.)
Wilson Street         “D” Street (South Bd.)
Wilson Street         First Street (South Bd.)
Wilson Street         Ravine Street (South Bd.)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Schedule A)
SCHEDULE II: NO-PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
72.04, the following streets are hereby designated as no-parking zones, to-wit:
 
Street (side)           Location
Chamness Street (North) From N. Johnson Street to N. Line Street
Line Street (East)      From Sterling Street to Pitkin Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Schedule E)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   ABANDONED, LOST, OR STOLEN VEHICLES
      
93.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Injury to property or trespass
   
90.04   Manner of keeping
   
90.05   Loud or noisy dogs or cats
   
90.06   Cruelty to animals
   
90.07   Exhibiting wild or vicious animals
   
90.08   Health hazard
   
90.09   Quantity of dogs and cats
   
90.10   Hobby animals; coop licenses
   
90.11   Animal feed distribution prohibited
General Dog Regulations
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Inoculation; name tags
   
90.27   Restraint
   
90.28   City Pound designation
   
90.29   Impoundment of dogs
   
90.30   Notice and citation of impoundment; redemption
   
90.31   Interfering with dog catcher
   
90.32   Nuisance dogs; at large
   
90.33   Female dog regulations
   
90.34   Confinement in motor vehicle
   
90.35   Tethering
Vicious and Dangerous Dogs
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   Vicious animals prohibited
   
90.52   Owner’s responsibility
   
90.53   When permitted to leave premises
   
90.54   Injunction
   
90.55   Liability
   
90.56   Right of entry
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Animal Control Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/1
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than human, which may be affected by rabies.
(510 ILCS 5/2.02)
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council to perform duties enforcing this chapter or any animal control
official appointed and acting under authority of the City Council.
(510 ILCS 5/2.03)
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property
of its owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner or his or her
agent to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
(510 ILCS 5/2.05)
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or companion animal; or
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not
cause serious injury.
(510 ILCS 5/2.052A)
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the State of
Illinois.
(510 ILCS 5/2.06)
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
(510 ILCS 5.211)
   ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the enclosure.
      (2)   The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure.
      (3)   If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a residence, it cannot have
direct ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless it leads directly to an
enclosed pen and the door must be locked. A vicious dog may be allowed to move
about freely within the entire residence if it is muzzled at all times.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11a)
   FERAL CAT. A cat that:
      (1)   Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned or feral cat
and is not socialized;
      (2)   Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
socialized; or
      (3)   Lives on a farm.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11b)
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
(510 ILCS 5/2.12)
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
(510 ILCS 5/2.13)
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more than
three dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals over four months of age
are kept or on which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred,
or cared for in return for remuneration or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
(510 ILCS 5/2.14)
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
(510 ILCS 5/2.15)
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a dog or other animals or who
keeps or harbors a dog or who has a dog in his or her care or who acts as its
custodian or who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to remain on
or about any premises occupied by him or her.
(510 ILCS 5/2.16)
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that is unsupervised and found running at
large with three or more other dogs.
(510 ILCS 5.17c)
   POUND. Any facility approved by the Administrator and licensed as such by
the Department of Agriculture for the purpose of enforcing this chapter and
used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted dogs or
other animals.
(510 ILCS 5/2.18)
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department of
Agriculture for the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by
the Department under the Animal Control Act.
(510 ILCS 5/2.19)
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT, within the meaning of this chapter, if
it is controlled by a leash, within an enclosed vehicle being driven or parked
on the streets, or within the property limits of his or her owner or keeper.
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of June
through September.
   SHELTER. As it applies to dogs, shall mean a moisture-proof structure of
suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of
durable material with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground
and with the entrance covered by a flexible, wind-proof material. Such
structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to
provide insulation and protection against cold and dampness.
   UNOWNED STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the owner or keeper or
under control by leash or other recognized control methods and which does not,
at that time and place, bear a current rabies inoculation tag issued pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter by means of which, by reference to records of
current registration certificates, the Administrator or his or her deputies or
assistants may determine the name and address of the owner or keeper thereof or
some other means of identification from which the Administrator or his or her
deputies or assistants may directly determine the name and address of the owner
or keeper thereof.
(510 ILCS 5/2)
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors said
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake, or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx, or any other animal or any bird
of prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(510 ILCS 5/24)
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 90.03 INJURY TO PROPERTY OR TRESPASS.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or
private lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises
and break, bruise, tear up, crush, or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant,
shrub, tree, or garden in any manner whatsoever or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   Waste products accumulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit a dog or cat to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person unless such person has, in his or her immediate
possession, an appropriate device for scooping excrement and an appropriate
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person. This section shall not apply to a
person who is visually or physically handicapped.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards, or runs. All pens, yards, runs, or other structures
wherein any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily
cleaned and kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good
repair, and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 LOUD OR NOISY DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the
neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions of complaint. Whenever any person shall complain to the
Police Department that a dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps or a cat
which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the city, the
Police Department shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint
has been received and that the person should take whatever steps are necessary
to alleviate the howling, yelping, or crying.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture, or
abuse or cruelly beat, strike, or abuse any animal or (by an act, omission, or
neglect) cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering,
injury, or death to any animal whether such animal belongs to such person or to
another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the county
animal control facility for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse, or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable
water, shade, or shelter or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold, or inclement weather or to carry any such animal in or
upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner. The terms used in this section
shall comply with §
90.02.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6
§ 90.07 EXHIBITING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal, as described in this chapter,
for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This
section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal
exhibitions, or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet, unless a permit is granted by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the city. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may be
seized by any police officer or humane officer, and upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
said animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a law
enforcement or military agency nor to animals which are kept for the protection
of property, provided that such animals are restrained by a leash or chain,
cage, fence, or other adequate means from contact with the general public or
with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied permission of
the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The Department of Agriculture shall issue a temporary permit for the
keeping, care, and protection of any infant animal native to this area which
has been deemed to be homeless; then, said animal may be kept on a temporary
basis.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 HEALTH HAZARD.
   The Mayor shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the keeping of
any animal, fowl, or bird which is deemed to be a nuisance or pose a health
hazard to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 90.09 QUANTITY OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the
city for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms DOG and CAT shall be construed as
provided in §
90.02.
   (B)   Limitation; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
three dogs or cats within the city, except that a litter of pups, a litter of
kittens, or a portion of a litter may be kept for a period of time not
exceeding five months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, or sporting purposes or
boarding.
   (C)   Kennels. In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be
located closer than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent
residential lot.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 HOBBY ANIMALS; COOP LICENSES.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a
nuisance for any person to keep or allow to be kept any animal of the species
of horse, mule, swine, sheep, goat, cattle, poultry (with the exception of
chickens, ducks, quail, pheasant, pigeons, and rabbits as herein provided),
skunks, or poisonous reptiles within the limits of the city.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to keep roosters within city limits.
      (2)   Allowable animals shall be deemed HOBBY ANIMALS.
      (3)   The number of allowable fowl shall be no less than two and no more
than six.
      (4)   The number of rabbits shall not exceed ten.
      (5)   Any structures housing hobby animals shall be termed an ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE.
      (6)   Applicants shall register with City Hall, obtain an annual permit,
and have proof of registration on-site. The registration fee is $25 per year.
      (7)   Care for hobby animals shall follow the provisions set forth
herein.
         (a)   Hobby animals shall be kept in such a way so as not to cause a
nuisance.
         (b)   Hobby animal runs, yards, and coops shall be constructed and
maintained to reasonably prevent the collection of standing water and shall be
cleaned of droppings, uneaten or discarded feed, feathers, and other waste with
such frequency as is necessary to ensure the yard, coop, and pen do not become
nuisances.
            1.   Coops, pens, and yards shall be large enough to provide at
least four square feet per animal.
            2.   The coop must be built to provide ventilation, shade,
protection from precipitation, protection from cold weather and to be secure
from predators, wild birds, and rodents.
            3.   Openings in windows and doors must be covered by wire mesh or
screens to deter predators.
            4.   Access doors must be sized and placed for ease of cleaning.
            5.   The enclosed run must be attached to the coop or must surround
the coop. The sides of the run must be made of fencing or wire mesh that
discourages predators.
            6.   The run must be enclosed on all sides, including the top or
roof plane.
            7.   Odors from pens, manure, or related substances shall not be
detectable from property lines. Manure must be stored and disposed of. Manure
may be composted. All manure not composted must be removed from property
regularly.
         (c)   Licenses for coops must be obtained and shall meet the rules of
this chapter where applicable.
            1.   Prior to a license being granted to an applicant, the
applicant must show proof of notice to all adjacent landowners except
landowners that are municipalities or utilities.
            2.   Coops over 120 square feet will require a building permit.
            3.   A license shall not be granted unless the applicant has
obtained all necessary building permits and can show proof that a pen, yard,
and coop that comply with this section have been erected.
            4.   The chicken coop and run shall be located in the rear of the
residential structure. The pen, coop, and run are allowed in the rear yard but
not the side or front yards.
            5.   The coop and run shall be located at least five feet from the
property line and at least 25 feet from any dwelling.
            6.   Coop licenses shall not run with the land.
            7.   Licenses will only be granted to persons who reside on parcels
with single-family dwellings. An applicant who lives in an apartment, multi-
family units, or condominium building is not eligible to receive a hobby animal
license.
            8.   The city may deny a license to any person who owes money to
the city or has, in the last five years prior to application for a license
under this section, been convicted or plead guilty to any code violation of
animals, nuisance, noise, property maintenance, or zoning.
            9.   If the licensee is found to be in violation of this section or
of cruelty to animals, the license will be immediately and permanently revoked.
            10.   Applications shall be submitted to the City Clerk’s office.
            11.   No person shall slaughter any hobby animal within city limits
in view of the public.
            12.   No hobby animal shall be permitted to run at large. All
animals shall be kept in a designated coop or run. Hobby animals may be allowed
to exercise in a rear yard with a six-foot or higher fence with supervision.
            13.   No lawfully owned cat or dog shall be deemed dangerous,
vicious, or otherwise punished for attacking or killing any hobby animal
allowed to run astray whether by accident or design.
            14.   Any resident currently owning a designated hobby animal shall
have 90 days from enactment of this section to comply with all the provisions
set forth.
            15.   If the licensee is found to be in violation of these
standards three or more times, the license will be immediately and permanently
revoked.
            16.   Pens, coops, and runs not maintained according to this
section shall be deemed a public nuisance, and the license will be immediately
and permanently revoked.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply in areas of the city that are
zoned agricultural in nature nor shall this section apply to livestock brought
into the city for the purpose of being shipped out of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ANIMAL FEED DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place or distribute any animal feed on
public property or public easements and accesses to public property. It shall
be unlawful for anyone to place or distribute animal feed on vacant lots or in
unoccupied structures in the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6, and 65 ILCS 5/
11-20-9
GENERAL DOG REGULATIONS
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall comply with §
90.02, unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 90.26 INOCULATION; NAME TAGS.
   (A)   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars.
      (1)   Each calendar year or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
      (2)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the
dog to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address, and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
   (B)   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate. The inoculation of dogs required by division (A)(1) above shall be
performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or her profession in
this state. Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to
the owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver to
the owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the
collar or harness of the dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact of the
inoculation against rabies.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
   (C)   Duration of inoculation. The inoculation performed under the
provisions of division (B) above shall be effective until the expiration of the
calendar year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such
period of time as may be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
   (D)   Specifications for tag. The tag issued under the provisions of
division (B) above shall be in such form as shall be determined by the
Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
   (E)   Exhibition of certificate upon request. At any reasonable time, upon
request of any member of the Police Department or city employee, the owner or
keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his or her certificate issued under
the provisions of division (B) above, showing the inoculation against rabies of
any dog owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 RESTRAINT.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control, as defined in
§
90.02.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9
§ 90.28 CITY POUND DESIGNATION.
   The City Council shall designate a City Pound.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-14)
§ 90.29 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS.
   (A)   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department, as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor, to take up
and impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that purpose,
any dog found running at large or unlicensed in the city, contrary to any of
the provisions of this chapter or other regulations of the city or state.
      (2)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their
ownership is known to the designated employee(s), such dogs may be impounded at
the discretion of such employee(s), but the employee(s) may cite the owner of
such dog to answer charges of violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Any dog permitted to run at large within the city is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
      (4)   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within seven days
shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the Poundkeeper.
      (5)   The City Council may establish a reasonable fee, by motion, for
each day that a dog is housed in the pound.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8)
   (B)   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons.
      (1)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so
as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded, and
kept separated from other dogs for ten days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed in such a manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall, thereupon, be detached and immediately sent to
the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case such dog
cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to
preserve the head intact, which shall, thereupon, be immediately detached and
be delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
      (2)   If, at the expiration of the ten days, no symptoms of rabies have
developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this chapter; provided,
however, in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall have previously
bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed by the Poundkeeper.
After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten or otherwise injured
any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any circumstances,
permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
   (C)   Impoundment. Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this
subchapter may employ any method found practical and humane in capturing and
impounding any dog found running at large.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/10 and 510 ILCS 5/13
§ 90.30 NOTICE AND CITATION OF IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment. In case of
impounding and where the owner or keeper of such dog is disclosed by any tax or
license tag worn by it or is otherwise known to the officers impounding the
same, the designated official shall make reasonable attempts to contact the
owner, informing him or her of the impounding of his or her dog and shall cite
the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9)
   (B)   Redemption of impounded animals. The owner of any animal impounded
under this subchapter may redeem the same by paying all the costs and charges
assessed, if any, that have accrued up to the time of making redemption and on
paying the same; it shall be the duty of the authorities to release the animal
from the pound and deliver it to its owner or certify the release thereof to
any county authority having possession of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-13)
§ 90.31 INTERFERING WITH DOG CATCHER.
   Any person(s) who shall bring any dog into the city for the purpose of
causing the same to be impounded or any person who shall resist, hinder, or
molest the dog catcher or police officer while engaged upon the duties imposed
upon them by this subchapter or any person who shall break into the dog pound
and release or deliver any dog therefrom without having first paid the fees
herein specified or any owner or keeper of any dog who shall permit any dog to
run at large within the corporate limits of the city shall be penalized.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 NUISANCE DOGS; AT LARGE.
   (A)   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances. Any dog which may, in any
manner, continually disturb the quiet of any person or neighborhood or shall
destroy or, in any manner, injure any animal, plant, shrub, or other property
not on the premises of its owner or keeper is hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and such dog shall be taken up and impounded and may be redeemed or disposed of
in the manner provided for under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-15)
   (B)   Dangerous dog, female dog at large. It shall be unlawful for the owner
or keeper of any vicious or dangerous dog, as defined in §
90.02, or of any female dog, while in heat, to run at large within the limits
of this city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-16)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 FEMALE DOG REGULATIONS.
   No person in control or possession of a female dog or permitting the same to
remain upon his or her premises shall intentionally permit any such female dog,
while in heat, to consort with any other dog or dogs in an indecent manner in
any place of public view, whether upon his or her own or any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 CONFINEMENT IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No owner or person shall confine any animal in a motor vehicle in such a
manner that places it in a life or health threatening situation by exposure to
a prolonged period of extreme heat or cold, without proper ventilation, or
other protection from such heat or cold. In order to protect the health and
safety of an animal, an animal control officer, law enforcement officer, or
Department investigator, who has probable cause to believe that this section is
being violated, shall have authority to enter such motor vehicle by any
reasonable means under the circumstances after making a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person responsible.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-18) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 70/7.1
§ 90.35 TETHERING.
   (A)   Tethering dog regulations. The following regulations shall be
applicable to owners and guardians of dogs in their care.
      (1)   (a)   A dog that is outside for one hour or more, whether fenced,
kenneled, or tethered, shall have proper food, water, and shelter.
         (b)   Owners and guardians shall be responsible for the welfare of
their pets in severe heat, cold, rain, snow, ice, and wind.
      (2)   No dog shall be tethered within 50 feet of a school, daycare, or
school bus stop.
      (3)   No dog shall be tethered on any public easement or public access to
private property.
      (4)   No dog shall be tethered on private property within ten feet of
public or neighboring property.
      (5)   No dog shall be tethered on land without a dwelling or a vacant
dwelling.
      (6)   No dog shall be left inside a vacant dwelling.
      (7)   No more than one dog shall be attached to a tether.
      (8)   A properly constructed fence of a height and strength that prevents
the dog from jumping, climbing, or digging out and running at large is
acceptable containment.
      (9)   A properly constructed kennel of a height and strength that
prevents the dog from jumping, climbing, or digging out and running at large is
acceptable containment if the following conditions are met: the dimensions of
the kennel shall be dictated by the size of the dog; the kennel shall have a
doghouse large enough for the dog to stand and turn around, with roof and four
sides; and the acceptable kennel size is 125 square feet per dog of under 50
pounds.
      (10)   Tethering shall not be used as permanent means of containment for
any companion pet.
      (11)   Tethering shall be acceptable under the following conditions.
         (a)   Trolley or pulley types of tethering systems are recommended.
         (b)   Fixed-point tethers shall be acceptable upon inspection and
approval by Animal Control.
         (c)   All tethers will be a minimum of 15 feet in length and no more
than one-eighth the dog’s weight.
         (d)   The tether shall have a swivel mechanism on both ends and
attached to a properly fitting, non-metal, buckle-type collar or a harness.
         (e)   No pinch or choke collars shall be allowed.
         (f)   No tether shall be directly attached to the dog.
      (12)   Owners shall be responsible to maintain a clean and healthy
environment on their property and provide medical treatment when needed.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
   (B)   Variances. Any person seeking a variance from the regulations in this
section shall complete an application at the Animal Control Agency of the city.
The variance shall be reviewed by the Animal Control Committee for approval or
disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 70/3
VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or companion animal; or
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not
cause serious injury.
(510 ILCS 5/2.052A)
   ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the enclosure.
      (2)   The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure.
      (3)   If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a residence, it cannot have
direct ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless it leads directly to an
enclosed pen and the door must be locked.
      (4)   A vicious dog may be allowed to move about freely within the entire
residence if it is muzzled at all times.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11a)
   FOUND TO BE VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   The County Veterinarian, Animal Control Warden, or a law
enforcement officer has conducted an investigation and made a finding, in
writing, that the dog is a vicious dog, as defined herein, and based on that
finding, the County Veterinarian or the Animal Control Warden has declared, in
writing, that the dog is a vicious dog; or
      (2)   The Circuit Court has found the dog to be a vicious dog, as defined
herein, and has entered an order based on that finding.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the public pound in the city or town
where the vicious dog is found.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog that, when unprovoked, inflicts, bites, or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property.
      (2)   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack (without provocation), to cause injury, or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals.
      (3)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness, or unprovoked
attacks upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular
manner or with special equipment.
      (4)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation.
      (5)   Any individual dog which has been found to be a dangerous dog upon
three separate occasions.
      (6)   No dog shall be deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks, or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement
or guard duties.
      (7)   VICIOUS DOGS shall not be classified in a manner that is specific
as to breed.
      (8)   If a dog is found to be a VICIOUS DOG, the dog shall be subject to
enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 90.51 VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Vicious animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
bring or transfer into the unincorporated area of the city any dog or animal
that has been declared vicious by any unit of local government.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-19)
   (B)   Unlawful to maintain. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
maintain any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is,
at all times, kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be
allowed out of the enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length and shall
be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog.
Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not confined to
an enclosure shall be impounded by the Animal Control Warden or the police and
shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for destruction by lethal
injection.
   (C)   Hearing request. The owner charged with maintaining a vicious or
dangerous dog may request a hearing before the City Council within five days of
being charged.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 and 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9
§ 90.52 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the
Circuit Court in the county in which the animal was impounded within 15 working
days, the dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be a vicious dog shall
not be released to the owner until the Animal Control Warden approves the
enclosure as defined in this subchapter. No owner or keeper of a vicious dog
shall sell or give away the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/15
§ 90.53 WHEN PERMITTED TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   (B)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt from
this section, provided no attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected.
   (C)   To qualify for exemption under this section, each such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with this chapter. It shall
be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog to notify the Warden of changes
of address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the
Warden advised of the location where such dog will be stationed.
   (D)   The Warden shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of such exempted dogs and shall promptly notify such
departments of any address changes reported to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/15
§ 90.54 INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Warden, the City Attorney, or any citizen of the
city in which a dangerous or vicious dog or other animal exists may file a
complaint to enjoin all persons from maintaining or permitting such, to abate
the same, and to enjoin the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting
same to leave his or her premises when not under control by leash or other
recognized control methods.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complaint in the Circuit Court, the court, if
satisfied that this nuisance may exist, shall grant a preliminary injunction
with bond in such amount as the court may determine, enjoining the defendant
from maintaining such nuisance.
   (C)   If the existence of the nuisance is established, the owner of such dog
or other animal shall be in violation of this subchapter, and in addition, the
court shall enter an order restraining the owner from maintaining such nuisance
and may order that such dog or other animal be humanely dispatched.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/17
§ 90.55 LIABILITY.
   If a dog or other animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any person
who is peaceably conducting himself or herself in any place where he or she may
lawfully be, the owner of such dog or other animal is liable in damages to such
person for the full amount of the injury sustained.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/16
§ 90.56 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter and making
inspections hereunder, the Animal Control Warden or his or her authorized
representative or any officer of the law may enter upon private premises to
apprehend a straying dog or other animal, a dangerous dog or other animal, or a
dog or other animal thought to be infected with rabies. If, after request
therefor, the owner of such dog or other animal shall refuse to deliver the dog
or other animal to the officer, the owner shall be in violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9, 510 ILCS 5/17,
and 510 ILCS 5/24
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
90.10 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense.
Each day an owner is not compliant with §
90.10 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Burning prohibited
   
91.03   Restriction on burning landscape waste
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and crop residues
but excluding landscape waste.
   GARBAGE or HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food or food products, including
plastic containers.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under § 9(b) of the State
Environmental Protection Act.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-1)
§ 91.02 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or allow open burning of agricultural waste,
household trash, or garbage.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 RESTRICTION ON BURNING LANDSCAPE WASTE.
   The open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted only on the following
conditions.
   (A)   Landscape waste shall be burned on the premises on which such waste is
generated.
   (B)   Landscape waste shall be burned only when atmospheric conditions shall
readily dissipate contaminants.
   (C)   Landscape waste may be burned only if such burning does not create a
visibility hazard on roadways, walkways, or railroad tracks.
   (D)   Open burning of landscape waste may only take place during daylight
hours with a person over 18 years of age in attendance during the entire period
of burning.
   (E)   No open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted on any streets
or roadways.
   (F)   No open burning shall occur during periods of time when the Fire Chief
or the Chief of Police have determined that atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous and dangerous.
   (G)   No person shall burn any item before the hour of 8:00 a.m. and after
the hour of 8:00 p.m., with the exception of burning fuels for legitimate
campfire, recreational, and cooking purposes.
   (H)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official, is
permissible.
   (I)   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational, and
cooking purposes or in domestic fireplaces in areas where such burning is
consistent with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be burned in such
cases, is permitted.
   (J)   The burning of waste gases is permitted provided that, in the case of
refineries, all such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable
devices to reduce pollution.
   (K)   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like is acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-3) (Ord. 14-12, passed 4-14-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED, LOST, OR STOLEN VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Abandonment
   
92.02   Notification to law enforcement agencies
   
92.03   Removal of vehicles; towing or hauling
   
92.04   Police tows, reports, release of vehicles, and payment
   
92.05   Record searches
   
92.06   Identifying vehicles
   
92.07   Reclaimed vehicles
   
92.08   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles
   
92.09   Disposal of hazardous dilapidated vehicles
   
92.10   Public sale proceeds
   
92.11   Liability of law enforcement officers
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any highway in
this city is unlawful.
   (B)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a highway, in view of the general public anywhere in this
city is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned
vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property shall
be authorized for removal by the city after a waiting period of seven days or
more or may be removed immediately if determined to be a hazardous dilapidated
motor vehicle under 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1.
   (C)   A towing service may begin to process an unclaimed vehicle as
abandoned by requesting a record search by the Secretary of State up to ten
days after the date of the tow or any later date acceptable to the Secretary of
State. This division (C) shall not apply to vehicles towed by order or
authorization of the city or a law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1 and 625 ILCS 5/4201
§ 92.02 NOTIFICATION TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person in this city not the owner of the
vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the municipal police, when the
vehicle is within the corporate limits of any city having a duly authorized
Police Department, or the State Police or the County Sheriff when the vehicle
is outside the corporate limits of the city. Upon receipt of such notification,
the municipal police will authorize a towing service to remove and take
possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle. The towing
service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a
record of the tow (as set forth in 625 ILCS 5/4-204) for law enforcement
agencies until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed of as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see 625 ILCS 5/4-202 and 625 ILCS 5/4-204
§ 92.03 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; TOWING OR HAULING.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway in an urban district ten
hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by a law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction.
   (B)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway other than
a toll highway, interstate highway, or expressway outside of an urban district
for 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by a
law enforcement agency having jurisdiction.
   (C)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to
the highway by a towing service may be authorized by a law enforcement agency
having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-3)
§ 92.04 POLICE TOWS, REPORTS, RELEASE OF VEHICLES, AND PAYMENT.
   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away, as provided in §§
92.02 or
92.03, then the following shall occur.
   (A)   The authorization, any hold order, and any release shall be in writing
or confirmed in writing, with a copy given to the towing service.
   (B)   The police headquarters or office of the law officer authorizing the
towing shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series
name, body style, vehicle identification number, license plate year, and number
and registration sticker year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record
shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location
towed to, reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
   (C)   The owner, operator, or other legally entitled person shall be
responsible to the towing service for payment of applicable removal, towing,
storage, and processing charges and collection costs associated with a vehicle
towed or held under order or authorization of the law enforcement agency. If a
vehicle towed or held under order or authorization of a law enforcement agency
is seized by the ordering or authorizing agency or any other law enforcement or
governmental agency and sold, any unpaid removal, towing, storage, and
processing charges and collection costs shall be paid to the towing service
from the proceeds of the sale. If applicable law provides that the proceeds are
to be paid into the treasury of the appropriate civil jurisdiction, then any
unpaid removal, towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs
shall be paid to the towing service from the treasury of the civil
jurisdiction. The payment shall not, however, exceed the amount of proceeds
from the sale, with the balance to be paid by the owner, operator, or other
legally entitled person.
   (D)   Upon delivery of a written release order to the towing service, a
vehicle subject to a hold order shall be released to the owner, operator, or
other legally entitled person upon proof of ownership or other entitlement and
upon payment of applicable removal, towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-204
§ 92.05 RECORD SEARCHES.
   (A)   When a law enforcement agency authorizing the impounding of a vehicle
does not know the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled person, that law enforcement agency will cause the vehicle
registration records of the state to be searched by the Secretary of State for
the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
   (B)   The law enforcement agency authorizing the impounding of a vehicle
will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the State Police to be searched by
a directed communication to the State Police for stolen or wanted information
on the vehicle. When the State Police files are searched with negative results,
the information contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files
will be searched by the State Police. The information determined from these
record searches will be returned to the requesting law enforcement agency for
that agency’s use in sending a notification by certified mail to the registered
owner, lienholder, and other legally entitled persons advising where the
vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information. Notification shall be sent no later than ten business days after
the date the law enforcement agency impounds or authorizes the impounding of a
vehicle, provided that if the law enforcement agency is unable to determine the
identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled
to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a ten business day period after
impoundment, then notification shall be sent no later than two days after the
date the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally
entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined. Exceptions to a
notification by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, and other
legally entitled persons are set forth in 625 ILCS 5/4-209.
   (C)   (1)   When ownership information is needed for a towing service to
give notification, as required under this chapter, the towing service may cause
the vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by the Secretary
of State.
      (2)   The written request of a towing service, in the form and containing
the information prescribed by the Secretary of State by rule, may be
transmitted to the Secretary of State in person by U.S. mail or other delivery
service, by facsimile transmission, or by other means the Secretary of State
deems acceptable. The Secretary of State shall provide the required information
or a statement that the information was not found in the vehicle registration
records of the state by U.S. mail or other delivery service, facsimile
transmission (as requested by the towing service), or by other means acceptable
to the Secretary of State.
   (D)   The Secretary of State may prescribe standards and procedures for
submission of requests for record searches and replies via computer link.
   (E)   Fees for services provided under this section shall be in amounts
prescribed by the Secretary of State under 625 ILCS 5/3-821.1. Payment may be
made by the towing service using cash, any commonly accepted credit card, or
any other means of payment deemed acceptable by the Secretary of State.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/3-821.1, 625 ILCS 5/4-205, and 625 ILCS
5/4-209
§ 92.06 IDENTIFYING VEHICLES.
   When the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled to
the possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of
this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the law enforcement agency having custody of the vehicle shall notify the State
Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the
State Police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having
custody of the vehicle for notification purposes as set forth in §
92.05.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-206
§ 92.07 RECLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   At any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as
provided in §
92.08(A), the owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the law enforcement agency
having custody of the vehicle proof of ownership or proof of the right to
possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be released to the owner, lienholder, or other person
under this section until all towing, storage, and processing charges have been
paid.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-207
§ 92.08 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle.
      (1)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle seven years
of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled person for a period of 30 days after notice has been given, as
provided in §§
92.05 and
92.06, the law enforcement agency or towing service having possession of the
vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public auction to a person licensed as an
automotive parts recycler, rebuilder, or scrap processor under 625 ILCS 5 or
the towing operator which towed the vehicle. Notice of the time and place of
the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to
the sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten
days prior to the sale, the law enforcement agency where the vehicle is
impounded or the towing service where the vehicle is impounded shall cause a
notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the
registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled persons. Notice, as
provided in §§
92.05 and
92.06 and this section, shall state the time and place of sale and shall
contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be
taken by any legally entitled persons to reclaim the vehicle.
      (2)   If an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle displays dealer
plates, notice under this section and division (B) below shall be sent to both
the dealer and the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
persons.
      (3)   In those instances where the certified notification specified in §§
92.05 and
92.06 has been returned by the postal authorities to the law enforcement agency
or towing service, the sending of a second certified notice will not be
required. (See 625 ILCS 5/4-208.)
(Prior Code, § 24-7-8)
   (B)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles without notice.
      (1)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or
other person legally entitled persons of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed
vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold, as provided for in
division (A) above, without notice to any person whose identity cannot be
determined.
      (2)   Old car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age
is impounded, as specified by this chapter, or when any such vehicle is towed
at the request or with the consent of the owner or operator and is subsequently
abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage for a minimum of ten days for
the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or
other legally entitled persons and contacting the registered owner, lienholder,
or other legally entitled persons by the U.S. mail, public service, or in
person for a determination of disposition and an examination of the State
Police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration
of the ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being
received from the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
persons, the vehicle may be disposed of in either of the following ways.
         (a)   The law enforcement agency having jurisdiction will authorize
the disposal of the vehicle as junk or salvage.
         (b)   The towing service may sell the vehicle in the manner provided
in division (A) above, provided that the provisions shall not apply to vehicles
towed by order or authorization of a law enforcement agency.
      (3)   Antique vehicle. A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle, custom
vehicle, or street rod may, however, be sold to a person desiring to restore
it. (See 625 ILCS 5/4-209.)
(Prior Code, § 24-7-9)
   (C)   Collection of unpaid charges. In an action to collect towing, storage,
and processing charges that remain unpaid after disposition of a vehicle towed
or relocated under this chapter, the towing service may recover reasonable
collection costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-11)
   (D)   Police record for disposed vehicle. When a vehicle in the custody of
the city or law enforcement agency is reclaimed by the registered owner,
lienholder, or other legally entitled person or when the vehicle is sold at
public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of
the transaction will be maintained by that law enforcement agency for a period
of one year from the date of the sale or disposal. (See 625 ILCS 5/4-210.)
(Prior Code, § 24-7-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5, 625 ILCS 5/4-208, 625 ILCS 5/4-209, and
625 ILCS 5/4-210
§ 92.09 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED VEHICLES.
   Any hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle impounded pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1, whether impounded at a public facility
or on the property of private towing service, shall be kept in custody for a
period of ten days for the purpose of determining the identity of the
registered owner or lienholder and contacting such owner or lienholder, if
known, by regular U.S. mail. At the expiration of the ten-day period, without
benefit of disposition information being received from the registered owner or
lienholder, the law enforcement agency having jurisdiction will authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/4-209.1 and 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1
§ 92.10 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits is authorized to be
towed away by a law enforcement agency having jurisdiction and disposed of as
set forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after
the deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in
the Municipal Treasury.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles disposed of
or sold at public sale under 625 ILCS 5/4-107(k).
(Prior Code, § 24-7-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-107(k) and 625 ILCS 5/4-211
§ 92.11 LIABILITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer or agency, a department of municipal
government designated under 625 ILCS 5/4-212.1 or its officers or employees, or
a towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be held to answer or be
liable for damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former
registered owner, or his or her legal representative, lienholder, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was
processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   A towing service and any of its officers or employees that removes or
tows a vehicle as a result of being directed to do so by a law enforcement
officer or agency or a department of municipal government or its officers or
employees shall not be held to answer or be liable for injury to, loss of, or
damages to any real or personal property that occurs in the course of the
removal or towing of a vehicle or its contents on a limited access highway in a
designated Incident Management Program that uses fast lane clearance
techniques, as defined by the Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-212.1 and 625 ILCS 5/4-213
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
92.01(A) or (B) shall be penalized as set forth in §
10.99.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
92.01 or who aids and abets in that violation:
         (a)   Shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500; and
         (b)   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing, storage, and processing
charges and collection costs, pursuant to §
92.03.
      (3)   When a vehicle is abandoned, it shall be presumed that the last
registered owner is responsible for the abandonment and shall be liable for all
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs, less any amounts
realized in the disposal of the vehicle. The last registered owner’s liability
for storage fees may not exceed a maximum of 30 days’ storage fees. The
presumption established under this division (B)(3) may be rebutted by a showing
that, prior to the time of the tow:
         (a)   A report of vehicle theft was filed with respect to the vehicle;
or
         (b)   The vehicle was sold or transferred and the last registered
owner provides the towing service with the correct identity and address of the
new owner at the time of the sale or transfer.
      (4)   If the presumption established under division (B)(3) above is
rebutted, the person responsible for theft of the vehicle or to whom the
vehicle was sold or transferred is liable for all towing, storage, and
processing charges and collection costs. (See 625 ILCS 5/4-214.)
(Prior Code, § 24-7-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-214
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Enumerated nuisances
   
93.02   Nuisances detrimental to health generally
   
93.03   Notice to abate; hearing
   
93.04   Appeal
   
93.05   Abatement by city
   
93.06   Failure to comply
   
93.07   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
93.08   Dangerous and unsafe properties
Weeds
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   Height
   
93.22   Notice; abatement
   
93.23   Lien; payment; foreclosure
Garbage and Debris
   
93.35   Accumulation prohibited
   
93.36   Notice; abatement
   
93.37   Lien; payment; foreclosure
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health,
peace, and comfort of the city for any person, firm, or corporation within the
limits of the city to permit the following, but the enumeration of the
following nuisances shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Filth. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal,
filth, or noisome substance to be collected, deposited, or to remain in any
place to the prejudice of others;
      (2)   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any offal or
other offensive matter or the carcass of any dead animal in any water course,
lake, pond, spring, well, or common sewer, street, or public highway;
      (3)   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond, lake, or well, public or private, to
the injury or prejudice of others;
      (4)   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places;
      (5)   Manufacturing gunpowder. To carry on the business of manufacturing
gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other highly explosive substances or mixing or
grinding the materials therefor in any building within 500 feet of any valuable
building erected at the time such business may be commenced;
      (6)   Powder magazines. To establish powder magazines near incorporated
towns at a point different from that appointed according to law by the
corporate authorities of the town or within 1,000 feet of any occupied dwelling
house;
      (7)   Noxious odors. To erect, continue, or use any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells, or otherwise, is offensive
or dangerous to the health of individuals or of the public;
      (8)   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on or affixing them to fences or other private property or
on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner or, if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities;
      (9)   Wells unplugged. To permit any well drilled for oil, gas, salt
water disposal, or any other purpose in connection with the production of oil
and gas to remain unplugged after such well is no longer used for the purpose
for which it was drilled;
      (10)   Burn-out pits. To construct or operate any salt water pit or oil
field refuse pit, commonly called a “burn-out pit,” so that salt water, brine,
or oil field refuse or other waste liquids may escape therefrom in any manner
except by the evaporation of such salt water or brine or by the burning of such
oil field waste or refuse;
      (11)   Discarded materials. To permit concrete bases, discarded
machinery, and materials to remain around any oil or gas well or to fail to
fill any holes, cellars, slush pits, and other excavations made in connection
with any such well or to restore the surface of the lands surrounding any such
well to its condition before the drilling of any such well upon abandonment of
any such oil or gas well;
      (12)   Underground wells. To permit any salt water, oil, gas, or other
wastes from any well drilled for oil, gas, or exploratory purposes to escape to
the surface or into a mine or coal seam or into any underground fresh water
supply or from one underground stratum to another;
      (13)   Harassment. To harass, intimidate, or threaten any person who is
about to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property
or is about to buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real
property when the harassment, intimidation, or threat relates to a person’s
attempt to sell, buy, or lease a residence or other real property or refers to
a person’s sale, purchase, or lease of a residence or other real property;
      (14)   Business. To establish, maintain, and carry on any offensive or
unwholesome business or establishment within the limits of the city or within
one and one-half miles of the city limits;
      (15)   Filthy premises conditions. To keep or suffer to be kept any
chicken coop, cow barn, stable, cellar, vault, drain, privy, sewer, or sink
upon any premises belonging to or occupied by any person or any railroad car,
building, yard, grounds, and premises belonging to or occupied by any person;
      (16)   Expectorate. To expectorate on any public sidewalk or street or
other public building or floor or walk of any public vehicle or hall;
      (17)   Litter on streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
upon or allow trash, paper, cardboard, wire, dirt, rock, stone, glass, brick,
lumber, wood, or litter or material objects of any size or description to fall
upon the streets of the city from any moving vehicle or to be thrown from a
moving vehicle or to throw from a moving vehicle and to remain thereon;
      (18)   Accumulation of junk and trash. To deposit or pile up any rags,
old rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, used lumber, derelict
truck trailers, camping trailers or boats, appliances, construction materials,
demolition debris, ashes, garbage, refuse, plastic, brush, litter, weeds,
slush, lead, glass bottles, or broken glass upon any residential home lot,
piece, or parcel of land or upon any public or private alley, street, or public
way within the city;
      (19)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist
that shall attract, harbor, or encourage the infestation of rodents;
      (20)   Bringing nuisances into the city. To bring into the city or keep
therein for sale or otherwise, either for food or for any other purpose, any
dead or live animal or any matter, substance, or thing which shall be a
nuisance or which shall occasion a nuisance in the city or which may or shall
be dangerous or detrimental to health;
      (21)   Offensive liquids. To keep nauseous, foul, or putrid liquid or
substance or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul,
offensive, or putrid nor permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed,
thrown, or to flow from or out of any premises into or upon any adjacent
premises or any public street or alley nor permit the same to be done by any
person connected with the premises;
      (22)   Dense or offensive smoke. To cause or permit the emission of dense
smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner, or any other agency in the
city so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof;
      (23)   Scrap tires, both mounted, and dismounted. To keep any scrap
tires, either mounted or dismounted, in open view or so as to allow such tires
to accumulate stagnant water so as to provide a breeding ground for mosquitoes
and other pests;
      (24)   Motor transport engines. To operate motor vehicle transport
engines in the nighttime between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in any
place in which a majority of the buildings within a radius of 400 feet are used
exclusively for residence purposes, excluding state and federal highways;
      (25)   Accumulation of debris. To store, dump, or permit the accumulation
of debris, refuse, garbage, trash, tires, buckets, cans, wheelbarrows, garbage
cans, or other containers in a manner that may harbor mosquitoes, flies,
insects, rodents, nuisance birds, or other animal pests that are offensive,
injurious, or dangerous to the health of individuals or the public; and
      (26)   Generally. To commit any act which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the land or made such by statute of the state. (See 740 ILCS 55/
221 through 55/222.)
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the corporate
authorities of this city from declaring what shall be nuisances and abating
them within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 740 ILCS 55/221 through 55/222
§ 93.02 NUISANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH GENERALLY.
   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or part
thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained, or operated in the city if such
use, keeping, or maintaining shall be dangerous or detrimental to health.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 NOTICE TO ABATE; HEARING.
   (A)   Notice to abate. Whenever the Superintendent, Mayor, or Police Chief
finds that a nuisance exists, he or she shall direct the City Clerk to mail
(certified) to the party responsible for the nuisance and to the party on whose
property the nuisance exists a written notice ordering that the nuisance be
abated within a reasonable time. The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of what condition or state of affairs must be achieved
in order for the nuisance to be deemed abated;
      (4)   A statement suggesting how such abatement might be accomplished;
      (5)   The date by which abatement must be completed;
      (6)   The date by which a request for a hearing must be filed and a
statement of the procedure for so filing;
      (7)   A statement that the responsible party has a right to appeal the
abatement order to the City Council; and
      (8)   A statement indicating that if the nuisance is not abated by the
date prescribed and/or if no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, this city will abate the nuisance and assess the costs against the
property and/or impose a fine.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-3)
   (B)   Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing
with the Police Chief or his or her designated representative ordering the
abatement. A request for a hearing must be made, in writing, and delivered to
the City Clerk within the time stated in the notice; otherwise, it will be
presumed that a nuisance exists and that such nuisance must be abated as
ordered. The hearing shall not be a formal trial-type proceeding, but
appropriate procedural safeguards shall be observed to ensure fairness. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Police Chief or his or her designated
representative shall render his or her decision and the reasons therefor in
writing. If he or she finds that a nuisance exists, he or she shall order it
abated within an additional time which must be reasonable under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-4)
§ 93.04 APPEAL.
   Any party aggrieved by the decision of the Police Chief may appeal to the
City Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within
five days of such decision a written statement indicating the basis for the
appeal. The appeal shall be heard by the City Council at the next regular or
special meeting after such filing. Its findings shall be conclusive, and if a
nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a time reasonable
under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-5)
§ 93.05 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the person ordered to abate a nuisance fails to do so, or if the nuisance
poses an emergency, this city may perform the required action to abate. Any
city official who is authorized to abate any nuisance, as defined herein, shall
have authority to engage the necessary assistance and to incur the necessary
expenses therefor. The official who abates a nuisance shall keep an accurate
account of the expenses incurred. The itemized expense shall be filed with the
City Clerk who shall pay such expenses on behalf of this city.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2
§ 93.06 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to comply
with the requirements of such notice by abating such nuisance within the time
specified, such person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter. The city
shall not be required to issue another notice where the condition or violation
is at first abated, but later resumed and/or repeated.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-7) (Ord. 02-11, passed 10-11-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2, 720 ILCS 5/47-5, 720 ILCS 5/47-
10, and 720 ILCS 5/47-15
§ 93.07 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES shall mean any motor vehicle
which, for a period of at least seven days, the engine, wheels, or other parts
have been removed or on which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been
altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of
being driven under its own motor power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not
include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being
driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-1)
   (B)   Declaration of nuisance. All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on
public or private property in view of the general public, are hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-2)
   (C)   Notice to owner. The Police Chief or a designated representative shall
notify the owner of the motor vehicle, informing him or her that he or she
shall dispose of any inoperable vehicles under his or her control. If the owner
fails to dispose of said inoperable vehicle(s) after seven days from the
issuance of the notice, the Police Chief or a designated representative may
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the inoperable
vehicle or parts thereof.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-3)
   (D)   Exclusions. Nothing in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle
that is kept within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles
over 25 years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a licensed
business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (See 65 ILCS 5/
11-40-3.)
(Prior Code, § 25-4-4)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3
§ 93.08 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE PROPERTIES.
   The city may demolish, repair, or enclose or cause the demolition, repair,
or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or uncompleted and abandoned
buildings within the city and may remove or cause the removal of garbage,
debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from
those building. Therefore, the city does hereby adopt, by reference, the
applicable provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 and 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.1, governing
dangerous and unsafe buildings.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 and 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.1
WEEDS
§ 93.20 DEFINITION.
   WEEDS, as used in this subchapter, shall include, but not be limited to the
following: Burdock, Rag Weed (giant), Rag Weed (common), Thistle, Cocklebur,
Jimson, Blue Vervain, Common Milk Weed, Wild Carrot, Poison Ivy, Wild Mustard,
Rough Pigweed, Lambsquarter, Wild Lettuce, Curled Dock, Smartweeds (all
varieties), Poison Hemlock, Wild Hemp, Johnson Grass, grass, and all other
noxious weeds, as defined by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 93.21 HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass, or plants (other
than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants) to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the city. Any such plants, weeds, or grass
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 NOTICE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. The Police Department or any other person so designated by the
Mayor may issue a written notice for removal of weeds or grass. Such weeds or
grass shall be cut by the owner or occupant within five days after such notice
has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-3)
   (B)   Service of notice. Service of the notice provided for herein may be
effected by handing the same to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premises
or to any member of his or her household of the age of 15 years or older found
on the premises or by mailing such notice to the last known residence address
of the owner; provided, if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address
cannot be obtained, then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-4)
   (C)   Abatement. If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within
five days, the Police Chief or a designated representative may proceed to abate
such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement, and such
expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-5)
§ 93.23 LIEN; PAYMENT; FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Lien. Charges for such weed or grass removal shall be a lien upon the
premises. A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30
days of submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expenses
thereof incurred by the city shall be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service;
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-6)
   (B)   Payment. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or
person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of
record in the same manner as filing notice of the lien. All lien and release
filing fees shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-7)
   (C)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed
cutting charges shall be sold for non-payment of the same and the proceeds of
such sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the
name of the city after the lien is in effect for 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-8)
(Ord. 02-11, passed 10-11-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6 and 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 93.35 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or
her premises or private property.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for
the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect to remove the garbage
or debris.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 NOTICE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to person. The Chief of Police or a designated representative
may issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris. Such garbage or
debris shall be removed by the owner or occupant within five days after such
notice has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-2)
   (B)   Service of notice. Service of notice provided for herein may be
effected by handing of the same to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the
premises or to any member of his or her household of the age of 15 years or
older found on the premises or by mailing such notice to the last known
residence address of the owner; provided, if the premises are unoccupied and
the owner’s address cannot be obtained, then the notice may be served by
posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-3)
   (C)   Abatement. If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within
five days, the city may proceed to abate such nuisance, and the charge shall be
$750, and all other costs to abate the such nuisance shall be charged to and
paid by such owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-4)
(Ord. 14-15, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.37 LIEN; PAYMENT; FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Lien. Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A
bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service
shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of
submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof
incurred by the city shall be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-5)
   (B)   Payment. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or
person in whose name the lien has been filed, and the release shall be filed of
record in the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-6)
   (C)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold non-
payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the
charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens.
      (2)   Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the city, after lien is in
effect for 60 days. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two
years after the date of filing notice of lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-7)
(Ord. 02-11, passed 10-11-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13 and 720 ILCS 5/47-10
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to any other method authorized by law, if a property
owner is cited with a violation under this chapter requiring the cutting of
grass and weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of inoperable
motor vehicles, or rodent and vermin abatement, noncompliance is found. Upon
reinspection of the property after the due date for compliance with an order to
correct the violation or with an order for abatement, costs for services
rendered by the municipality to correct the violation remain unpaid at the
point in time that they would become a debt due and owing the municipality, as
provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.1 et seq., and a lien has been filed of record by
the municipality in the office of the Recorder of Deeds in the county in which
the property is located, then those costs may be collected as a special
assessment on the property pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/9-24.5.
      (2)   Upon payment of the costs by the owner of record or persons
interested in the property, the lien shall be released by the municipality, and
the release shall be filed of record in the same manner as the filing of notice
of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/9-24.5 and 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.1 et seq.
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Declaration of policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state, as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws, in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace, and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the city to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful,
standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having the
right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation
and/or real property within the city or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withohold from any person or group
of persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental, or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities
and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Prior Code, § 22-4-1)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE. Any difference expressed in any way toward a person or persons
in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental, or financing for housing
accommodation and/or real property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental,
lease, or finance because of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more human beings or any real
estate so used, designed, or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, and/
or agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges, or rents or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange,
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 22-4-2)
§ 94.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-
lessee, real estate broker, salesperson, financial institution or employee of
the financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing
to discriminate against any person or persons because of his, her, or their
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
with regard to the sale, exchange, or rental or any dealing concerning any
housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property of the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate or cause to be published or circulated any
notice, statement, or advertisement or to announce a policy or to use any form
of application for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real property
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental, or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly
any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise obtaining or making available funds
for the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability; and
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Prior Code, § 22-4-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750. Each day
a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall
in no way abrogate or impair the right of the city to specifically enforce, by
any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-4-4) (Ord., passed 8-14-2000)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Park hours
   
95.02   Group activities
   
95.03   Application for permits; decision
Prohibited Acts in Parks
   
95.15   Destruction of park property
   
95.16   Littering; water pollution
   
95.17   Fires
   
95.18   Picnics
   
95.19   Erection of structures
   
95.20   Signs
   
95.21   Animals
   
95.22   Motor vehicles prohibited
   
95.23   Sales
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 PARK HOURS.
   The City Council shall establish the hours of operation of the municipal
parks. No one shall be in the park without the Mayor’s permission after the
established hours.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 GROUP ACTIVITIES.
   Whenever any group or organization desires to use municipal park facilities
for a particular purpose such as picnics, parties, exhibitions, or
performances, a representative of the group shall first apply for and obtain a
permit for such activity from the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-10)
§ 95.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS; DECISION.
   (A)   Application for permit. Applications for all permits required by this
chapter shall be made in writing to the Mayor not less than seven days before
the proposed date of the activity for which the permit is sought. Each
application shall include the following information:
      (1)   A statement briefly describing the nature of the proposed activity;
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or organization
wishing to conduct such activity;
      (3)   The date when such activity is to be conducted;
      (4)   The hour when such activity will start and terminate;
      (5)   The park or portion thereof for which such permit is desired; and
      (6)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-11)
   (B)   Decision on permit application. After due consideration of the
information contained in the permit application but not later than seven days
after the application has been filed, the Mayor shall determine whether the
application is satisfactory. An application shall be deemed satisfactory if:
      (1)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
      (2)   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the
day and hour requested in the application;
      (3)   The conduct of such activity will not substantially interrupt the
safe and orderly movement of traffic;
      (4)   The proper policing of such activity will not require the diversion
of so great a number of police officers as to prevent normal protection to the
remainder of this municipality;
      (5)   The conduct of such activity is not reasonably likely to cause
injury to persons or property or to incite violence, crime, or disorderly
conduct; and
      (6)   Such activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods, or event and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-12)
   (C)   Issuance or denial of permit.
      (1)   Notification by regular mail or by telephone shall be made promptly
by the Mayor to every permit applicant of the decision on his or her
application.
      (2)   If such decision is favorable, the Mayor shall issue the permit. As
a condition of the issuance of any permit, the Mayor may require that an
indemnity bond be obtained if, in his or her opinion, such bond is necessary to
protect this municipality from liability or to protect municipal property from
damage.
      (3)   The Mayor shall inform each applicant who has been denied a permit
regarding the reasons for the denial and the procedure for appeals.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-13)
PROHIBITED ACTS IN PARKS
§ 95.15 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   Within the municipal parks, no person, except park personnel on official
business, shall:
   (A)   Cut, break, injure, destroy, take, or remove any tree, shrub, timber,
plant, or natural object;
   (B)   Kill, cause to be killed, or pursue with intent to kill any bird or
animal except in areas where the city has authorized hunting; or
   (C)   Willfully mutilate, injure, or destroy any building, bridge, table,
bench, fireplace, guidepost, notice, tablet, fence, monument, or other park
property or appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.16 LITTERING; WATER POLLUTION.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any trash within the municipal parks except in
proper receptacles where these are provided. Where receptacles are not
provided, all trash shall be carried away from the parks by the person
responsible for its presence and shall be properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in
the waters of any fountain, lake, stream, or other body of water in or adjacent
to any park or in any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into
such waters any substance or thing, liquid, or solid which will or may result
in the pollution of the waters.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.17 FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall light or use any unenclosed picnic fire within the
municipal parks. Fires may be built only in fireplaces or on grills constructed
for that purpose in designated areas.
   (B)   In camping areas, no person shall leave any campfire unattended by a
competent person.
   (C)   Every person who has lighted or used any fire in a municipal park
shall extinguish such fire before leaving the park.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.18 PICNICS.
   No person shall picnic in the municipal parks except in areas designated for
that purpose. Park personnel are hereby authorized to regulate the activities
in such areas when necessary to prevent congestion or to secure the maximum
use, comfort, and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with any directions
given to achieve this end. All alcoholic beverages are prohibited in the city
park.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.19 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall build or place any tent, building, booth, stand, or other
structure in or upon any municipal park or other recreational facility unless
he or she has obtained a permit to do so from the city.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.20 SIGNS.
   No person shall place within any municipal park or affix to any object
therein any sign or device designated to advertise any business, profession,
exhibition, event, or thing unless he or she has obtained a permit to do so
from the city.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.21 ANIMALS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bring any dangerous animal into any municipal park;
   (B)   Permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash; or
   (c)   Ride or lead any horse in any municipal park or recreational area
except upon paths or other ways expressly provided and posted for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.22 MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person, other than municipal personnel on official business, shall drive
or park any motor vehicle, including snowmobiles, in any municipal park except
on a roadway or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.23 SALES.
   Within the parks of this municipality, no person shall, without having first
obtained a permit from the city:
   (A)   Sell or offer for sale any goods or services; or
   (B)   Conduct any amusement for gain or for which a charge is made.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERY
Section
   
96.01   Application of city laws
   
96.02   Unlawful entry; trespassing or loitering
   
96.03   Speed limits
   
96.04   Operation of vehicles
   
96.05   Property violations
   
96.06   Perpetual Cemetery Trust
§ 96.01 APPLICATION OF CITY LAWS.
   All provisions of the city code now in force or hereafter enacted relating
to and defining public offenses in the city, insofar as the same shall be
applicable, shall be in full force and effect in the city cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 96.02 UNLAWFUL ENTRY; TRESPASSING OR LOITERING.
   (A)   Unlawful entry. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other
than duly authorized officers, officials, or employees of the city, to enter or
be upon the cemetery grounds during the time after sunset and before sunrise of
any day without first obtaining the permission of the Sexton or city officer in
charge of the cemetery. It shall further be unlawful, at all times, for any
person to enter or leave the grounds other than by the established and open
entrances or gateways.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
   (B)   Trespassing or loitering; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any
person to loiter or trespass upon lots and graves of the city cemetery or for
the parent or guardian of any child under the age of 16 to permit such child to
be within the cemetery grounds unless accompanied by an adult person; provided,
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any person having lawful business
in the cemetery in connection with the improvement thereof or persons visiting
the graves of relatives or friends from being in the cemetery in accordance
with the rules.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in the cemetery
faster than ten mph.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the cemetery except
over a roadway open for vehicular traffic or obstruct any path or driveway
within the cemetery open to vehicular traffic. No person shall use the cemetery
grounds or any driveway therein as a public thoroughfare or drive any vehicle
through said grounds except for purposes of making deliveries in the cemetery
or visiting any gravesite.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Cemetery Sexton and/or his or her
assistants to direct all vehicular traffic, and the Sexton is authorized to
direct the parking or standing of all vehicles in the cemetery. No person shall
disobey or disregard the directions of the Sexton relating to the movement or
standing of all vehicles within the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 PROPERTY VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Grave decorations (flowers). The placing of cut flowers or artificial
flowers over individual graves shall be permitted; however, the city shall not
be responsible for the care of such flowers or the containers in which they are
placed. Furthermore, the city shall remove, without notice, all flowers, real
or artificial, which remain over 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6)
   (B)   Rubbish; debris. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any
rubbish, trash, waste materials, litter, or debris of any kind in the city
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7)
   (C)   Property damage. No person shall remove, molest, injure, mar, deface,
throw down, or destroy any headstone, monument, survey marker, corner marker,
tomb, vault, or mausoleum or decoration on any cemetery lot in the cemetery or
open, disturb, or molest any grave or place of burial therein. This shall not
prohibit acts by cemetery officers and employees or public officials in
carrying out their duties.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8)
   (D)   Trees, shrubs, and flowers. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized
person to plant any trees, shrubs, or other plant in the cemetery except those
permitted by the general landscape plan approved by the governing body of the
city. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to cut down, injure,
break, or destroy any tree, shrub, or other plant growing in the cemetery or to
pick, pluck, or cut any flower or decorative plant, except as authorized by the
cemetery rules.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 PERPETUAL CEMETERY TRUST.
   (A)   Establishment of trust. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-52.21, the Council
has determined that it is in the best interests of the community to provide for
the establishment of a Perpetual Cemetery Trust. This trust and the terms of
this section shall hereafter govern the management and care of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
   (B)   Appointment of members of Board. Pursuant to said statute, the Mayor
is hereby empowered to appoint, with the advice and consent of the Council, a
Board of Managers for said trust.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
   (C)   Board of Managers; terms of office. The Board of Managers shall
consist of three persons. The term of office of each of them is three years
from the date of appointment, excepting the initial term, which members’ term
shall be as follows: Position One of the Board shall have an initial term of
one year; Position Two of the Board shall have an initial term of two years;
and Position Three of the Board shall have an initial term of three years. Upon
the expiration of the initial terms of office of each of the three positions
consisting the Board, each of their successors’ terms shall thereafter be three
years.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
   (D)   Board of Managers; officers, duties. The Board shall meet not less
than twice a year. The Board shall elect one of their number to be President;
one of their number to be Clerk; and, shall elect a person to be Treasurer of
said Board. The Treasurer need not be a member of the Board.
      (1)   The President shall convene the meetings of the Board and conduct
its meetings.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Board shall keep, in a book provided for such
purposes, a permanent record of the proceedings of the Board, signed by the
President and attested by the Clerk, and shall also keep a permanent record of
the several trust funds from what sources received, the amounts thereof, and
for what uses and purposes, respectively.
      (3)   The Treasurer of the Board shall have the custody of all money and
property received in trust by the Board of Managers and shall pay out the same
only upon the written order of the Board, signed by the President and Clerk
thereof. The Treasurer shall keep permanent books of records of all such trust
funds and all receipts and disbursements thereof and for what purposes received
and disbursed and shall annually make a written report to the Board Managers,
under oath, showing balances, receipts, and disbursements, including a
statement showing the amount and principal of trust funds on hand and how
invested. The report shall be audited by the Board and, if found correct, shall
be transmitted to the City Council at the same time that the City Treasurer is
required, by law, to make his or her report and to be approved and preserved in
the same manner, if found to be correct.
      (4)   The Treasurer, before entering upon his or her duties, shall
execute a bond to the people of the state for the use of the Board of Managers
in a penal sum of not less than double the value of such money or funds coming
into his or her hands as such Treasurer, conditioned for the faithful
performance of his or her duties and for the faithful accounting for all money
or funds which, by virtue of his or her office, comes into his or her
possession, in such form and with such securities as may be prescribed and
approved by the City Council, to be approved and preserved in the same manner
as the bond of the City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
   (E)   Trust funds; care of cemetery. Any person may give, donate, or
bequeath any sum of money or any funds, securities, or property of any kind to
the Board of Managers in perpetual trust for the maintenance, care, repair,
upkeep, or ornamentation of such cemetery or any lot or lots or grave or graves
in such cemetery specified in the instrument making such gift, donation, or
legacy. The Board of Managers are hereby authorized and empower to receive and
hold in perpetual trust any such money, securities, funds, and property so
given, donated, or bequeathed to it in trust. The Board of Managers shall have
the right to convert the property into money and shall invest the proceeds
thereof and the money so given, donated, and bequeathed to it in such manner as
shall be provided by the ordinance. The principal of such trust fund shall be
kept intact and perpetually invested, and the income thereof shall be
perpetually applied for the purposes specified in the instrument making such
gift, donation, or legacy and for no other purpose. The Board of Managers shall
have the care, charge, management, and control of the cemetery, under the
supervision of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
   (F)   Removal of members of Board. The City Council shall have the power to
remove from office any or all of the Board of Managers or Treasurer for
nonperformance of duties or for misappropriation or wrongful use of funds or
property and to require a just and proper accounting for the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
(Ord. 96-1, passed 3-11-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-52.21
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   JUNK DEALERS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
113.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
115.   ALCOHOL
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Solicitors
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Policy
   
110.03   Certificate of registration; application
   
110.04   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
110.05   Notice regulating solicitation
   
110.06   Compliance by solicitors
   
110.07   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
110.08   Time limit on soliciting
   
110.09   Solicitations on public highways
   
110.10   Fees
Peddlers
   
110.25   License required
   
110.26   Definition
   
110.27   Applications; investigation
   
110.28   Hours
   
110.29   Fraud
   
110.30   Photographs
   
110.31   Unwanted peddling; nuisance
   
110.32   Abatement
   
110.33   Fees
   
110.34   Exclusion
SOLICITORS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration, as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, or services of any kind, character, or description
whatsoever for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind, or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers, and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing, or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 110.02 POLICY.
   It is declared to be the policy of this municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in this municipality shall make the determination
of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Certificate of registration.
      (1)   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting, as herein defined,
from persons within this municipality is hereby required to make written
application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   All resident charitable, non-profit organizations in this city
which have been in existence for six months or longer shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
   (B)   Application for certificate of registration.
      (1)   Applications for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of this municipality and filed with such
Chief.
      (2)   The applicant shall truthfully state, in full, the information
requested on the application, to-wit:
         (a)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; business address, if other than residence address;
and Social Security number;
         (b)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if
other than present address;
         (c)   Age of applicant and marital status and, if married, the name of
spouse;
         (d)   Physical description of the applicant;
         (e)   Name and address of the person, firm, or corporation or
association with whom the applicant is employed or represents and the length of
time of such employment or representation;
         (f)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if
other than the present employer;
         (g)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter
of the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
         (h)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
         (i)   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application
for a certificate under this chapter, if any;
         (j)   Answers to the following questions:
            1.   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant
under this chapter ever been revoked?
            2.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this code or the regulations of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting?
            3.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States?
         (k)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application in this municipality and
the address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
         (l)   Also, such additional information as the Chief of Police may
deem necessary to process the application.
      (3)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this subchapter and of the denial
of applications.
      (5)   Applications for certificates issued shall be numbered in
consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal
thereof shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued.
      (6)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who
has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or
any other state or federal law of the United States within five years of the
date of the application nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter nor to any person whose certificate
of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this
subchapter. Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the
application of the denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be
fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this subchapter or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this subchapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified,
return receipt requested, U.S. mail, addressed to his or her residence address
set forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the
certificate of registration shall become null and void. The certificate of
registration shall state the expiration date thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 110.05 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITATION.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions.
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by five inches in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words as follows: “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED” or “NO SOLICITORS
INVITED.”
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the same, at the cost thereof.
   (D)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 110.06 COMPLIANCE BY SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in this
municipality upon which a residence, as herein defined, is located to first
examine the notice provided for in §
110.05 if any is attached and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
   (B)   If the notice states “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration, as herein
provided for, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises, and if
the notice states, “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor, whether
registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (C)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 110.07 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door or create
any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, as herein defined, in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.05.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located
thereon or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting, as herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 4:00 p.m. on any day
of the week, including Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or
national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
State Attorney General as a charitable organization, as provided by “An Act to
Regulate Solicitation and Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes,
Providing for Violations Thereof, and Making an Appropriation Therefor,”
approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
   (B)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions is
required to come to a full stop;
   (C)   Be engaged in a state-wide fundraising activity;
   (D)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent;
   (E)   Any person so engaged in such solicitation shall be at least 16 years
of age and shall wear a high-visibility vest;
   (F)   Solicit only during daylight hours; and
   (G)   Any one charitable organization shall be limited to conducting no more
than two solicitations per calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 626 ILCS 5/11-1006
§ 110.10 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $10 per person per day; and
   (B)   Annual license: $50 per person per year.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
PEDDLERS
§ 110.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article, or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.26 DEFINITION.
   PEDDLE shall mean the selling, bartering, or exchanging or the offering for
sale, barter, or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the
streets, highways, or public places of this municipality or from house-to-
house, whether at one place thereon or from place-to-place, from any wagon,
truck, pushcart, or other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind but
shall not include the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of
items along delivery routes where the purchaser has previously requested the
seller to stop and exhibit his or her items nor shall PEDDLE be taken to
include the solicitation of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered
at the time the order is taken.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 110.27 APPLICATIONS; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Applications. A person desiring a license may obtain the same by
making application with the Clerk and providing the following information:
      (1)   Name and physical description of applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such
an address;
      (3)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
      (4)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he
or she represents;
      (7)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
      (8)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application to this municipality and
the address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
   (B)   Investigation of applicants. Upon receipt of each application, it
shall be referred to the Chief of Police, who shall investigate the business
and moral character of the applicant. If the facts show the applicant unfit to
receive the license, then it shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 110.28 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to engage in peddling,
as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on any day of the
week, including Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national
holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.29 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler or hawker shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating, or
misrepresentation, whether through himself, herself, or through an employee
while acting as a peddler in this municipality or shall barter, sell, or peddle
any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.30 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of its employees as will be used
in the peddling or merchandising, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application, which pictures shall be two inches by two inches,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant or his, her, or its agent(s)
and/or employee(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 110.31 UNWANTED PEDDLING; NUISANCE.
   (A)   Unwanted peddling. Nothing contained in this subchapter nor the
issuance of any license hereunder shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon
any private residence for the purpose of peddling if such licensee or his or
her agents or employees are directed to depart from said private residence by
the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8)
   (B)   Peddlers as nuisance. The practice of going in and upon private
residences, business establishments, or offices in the municipality by
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise
without having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners and
occupant or occupants of said private residences and business establishments or
offices for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking of
merchandise is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is punishable as a
violation of this subchapter. No person shall peddle in a public square.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.32 ABATEMENT.
   The Police Department of this municipality is hereby required and directed
to suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
110.31.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10)
§ 110.33 FEES.
   The license fees per person to be charged for licenses to peddle in this
municipality, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and established as
follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $10 per person per day; and
   (B)   Annual license: $50 per person per year.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
§ 110.34 EXCLUSION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business, firm, or corporation located
and regularly doing business in the municipality or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the municipality or anyone duly licensed.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11)
CHAPTER 111: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Physical requirements
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Application
   
111.05   Disqualifications
   
111.06   License; fee
   
111.07   Minors
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. As used in this chapter shall be held to mean and include scrap and
old iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium, aluminum, tin, lead, or other
base metals, scrap lumber, old rope, old bags, rags, waste paper, paper
clippings, scraps of woolens, clips, bagging, rubber and glass, and empty
bottles of different kinds or sizes when the number of each kind or size is
less than one gross; any wrecked or dilapidated motor vehicle, engine, or
machinery received, stored, or held for more than 90 days; and all articles and
things discarded or no longer used as a manufactured article composed of or
consisting of any one or more of the materials or articles herein mentioned.
   JUNK DEALER. As used in this chapter, shall be held to mean and include
every person, firm, partnership, or corporation that shall engage in the
business of buying, selling, bartering, or exchanging or shall collect,
receive, store, or hold in possession for sale, barter, or exchange any of the
things in and by this section defined as junk.
   JUNKYARD. As used in this chapter, shall be held to mean and include the
premises on which a junk dealer is engaged in the business of buying, selling,
bartering, exchanging, or collecting, receiving, storing, or holding in
possession for sale, barter, or exchange any of the things in and by this
section defined as junk. (See
Chapter 92, §§
93.01 through
93.08, and §§ 93.55 through
93.37.)
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 111.02 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum physical requirements, at all times, for each junkyard shall be
as follows.
   (A)   The premises where the junkyard is located shall not have more than
two entrances thereto and two exits therefrom, each of which shall not exceed
15 feet in width at the perimeter of the premises.
   (B)   The premises where the junkyard is located shall be enclosed on its
perimeter with a solid, non-transparent, vertical wall or fence of a minimum
height of seven feet measured from ground level, excepting for the entrances
and exits permitted by division (A) above.
   (C)   The aforesaid solid, non-transparent wall or fence and the gates or
doors, if any, at the aforesaid entrances and exits shall not contain any sign,
poster, or advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, excepting one sign of the
licensee thereon not exceeding 100 square feet in size.
   (D)   The public streets and alleys adjacent to the junkyard shall not have
junk thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, conduct, or
operate a junkyard within the corporate limits of the city without first
obtaining a license to do so as herein provided.
   (B)   A separate license shall be secured for each junkyard located on non-
contiguous lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any license under the provisions of this section is issued, any
person desiring to operate a junkyard in this city shall first make a verified
application in writing to the Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary, stating thereon the full name of the applicant, his or her residence
address, the trade name of the applicant, the legal description of the premises
where the junkyard is to be located, the size and approximate location of each
entrance thereto and exit therefrom, whether or not the premises where the
junkyard is to be located is enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, non-
transparent wall or fence of a minimum height of seven feet, measured from
ground level, excepting the entrances and exits, and whether or not the public
streets and alleys adjacent to the premises where the junkyard is to be located
have junk thereon.
   (B)   If the applicant is a firm of partnership, the names and residence
addresses of all the partners and, in the case of a corporation, the names and
residence addresses of the president and secretary shall be stated in the
application.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 111.05 DISQUALIFICATIONS.
   Any applicant for a license to keep, maintain, conduct, or operate a
junkyard shall be disqualified for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Not a person of good character;
   (B)   Falsification of an application for a license hereunder;
   (C)   License for a junkyard theretofore issued to the applicant has been
revoked during the preceding 24 months; or
   (D)   Failure to meet any one of the minimum physical requirements for a
junkyard specified in §
111.02 hereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 111.06 LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   License.
      (1)   Any and all licenses issued hereunder shall state that such license
is issued in the name of the junk dealer solely for the purpose of keeping,
maintaining, conducting, and operating a junkyard, the expiration date thereof,
the legal description of the premises where the junkyard is to be located, that
the license shall be used and the privileges thereof exercised only at the
described premises, and that such license is non-assignable and non-
transferable.
      (2)   Such license shall further provide that it is issued subject to all
the provisions of this chapter; that upon the first conviction for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to the fine, such
junkyard shall remain closed for a period of 30 days; that upon the second
conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
license shall become null and void, and the licensee shall forfeit all sums
paid for such license; and that the licensee, by the acceptance of such license
expressly agrees to all the terms and conditions thereof, and to the terms and
provisions of this division (A) and all amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
   (B)   License fee. The annual license fee for each junkyard shall be $200
payable in advance with the filing of the application for license and shall not
be subject to pro rata reduction for a portion of the year, either because of
the application for or because of revocation of a license; provided, however,
only one annual license fee shall be payable for licenses which may be issued
whenever the applicant desires to keep, maintain, conduct, or operate junkyards
on lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land which are situated on directly
opposite sides of and abut upon each side of a public street or alley. Where
such place of business is not located in the city but the operator carries on
the business of buying or collecting or bartering for the items heretofore
enumerated within the city, the annual fee shall be $200 for each junk dealer.
The fee is payable as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7)
§ 111.07 MINORS.
   No licensee hereunder shall purchase or receive any article whatsoever from
any minor, without the written consent of his, her, or their parents or
guardians.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-3
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Coin-Operated Machines
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required; application
   
112.03   Display of license
   
112.04   Right of entry
   
112.05   Gambling regulations
   
112.06   Closing hours
Raffles and Poker Runs
   
112.20   Definitions
   
112.21   License required
   
112.22   Application for raffle license
   
112.23   Application for poker run license
   
112.24   License qualifications; issuance
   
112.25   Conduct of raffle and poker runs
   
112.26   Manager; bond
   
112.27   Records
   
112.28   Limited application
COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token, or currency for the purpose of
amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term
includes, but is not limited to, jukeboxes, electronic video games, pinball
machines, or other similar games. The term does not include vending machines in
which there are not incorporated gaming or amusement features.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or club
who sets up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose
of operation by another any device(s) herein defined, whether such setting up
for operation, leasing, or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental or on
the basis of a division of the income from such device or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or a
club which (as the owner, lessee, or proprietor) has under his, her, or its
control any establishment, place, or premises in or on which such device is
placed or kept for use or play or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   License required. No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the
business of an operator of coin-operated amusement devices within the corporate
limits of this municipality without having first obtained the proper license
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
   (B)   Application. Application for license shall be verified by oath or
affidavit and contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the applicant, in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, of the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors; and if a majority in interest of the stock of
such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominee(s), the name and
address of such person(s);
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant and his or her place of birth or,
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The address of the place where the applicant proposes to operate;
      (4)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application
for a similar license on premises other than those described in the application
and the disposition of such other application; and
      (5)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive the license under this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall frame and hang his or her license in a conspicuous
place in the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
§ 112.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of Police has the power to and shall inspect any place, building,
or premises in which any licensed device or devices are operated or set up for
operation at such times and intervals as he or she may deem necessary for the
proper enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
§ 112.05 GAMBLING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All licensed devices shall, at all times, be kept and placed in plain
view of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business
where such devices are kept or used. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to authorize, permit, or license any gambling device of any nature
whatsoever. It shall be unlawful for any person receiving a license pursuant to
this subchapter to give or award a cash prize or equivalent to any person
playing any of the tables, devices, or machines enumerated hereinabove under
tournament, league, or any other individual or competitive play.
   (B)   The gambling prohibition shall not apply to any game or gaming even
for which a license or permit has been by the State Gaming Board pursuant to
the State Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., provided that such game or
gaming event is conducted in full and complete compliance with all requirements
of such act and all rules and regulations of the State Gaming Board. (See
Chapter 115.)
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
§ 112.06 CLOSING HOURS.
   No establishment operating under a license issued under this subchapter
shall be open for use of any such devices between the hours of 12:00 a.m.,
midnight, and 6:00 a.m. on any day or between 12:00 a.m., midnight, on Saturday
and 12:00 p.m., noon, the following Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-55-1
RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
§ 112.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial, and
civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
   HARDSHIP. A non-profit fundraising organization that has not been in
existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license that the county determines to be organized for the
sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or
group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident, or disaster.
   KEY LOCATION. The location where the poker run concludes and the prize or
prizes are awarded.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle or poker run.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to any one as a result of the
operation.
   POKER RUN. An event organized by an organization licensed under this
subchapter in which participants travel to multiple predetermined locations,
including a key location, drawing a playing card or equivalent item at each
location, in order to assemble a facsimile of a poker hand or other numeric
score. POKER RUN includes dice runs, marble runs, or other events where the
objective is to build the best hand or highest score by obtaining an item at
each location.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code of
2012, conducted by an organization licensed under this subchapter, in which:
         (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a
chance, represented, and differentiated by as number or by a combination of
numbers or by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be
designated the winning chance; and
         (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society, or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of members
of which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows,
or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare
of its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as
to confer a public benefit.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 112.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, corporation,
organization, or other entity to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer
for sale, convey, issue, or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle
without having first obtained a license therefore pursuant to this subchapter
and the Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, corporation,
organization, or other entity to conduct or operate a poker run without having
first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this subchapter and the Raffles
and Poker Runs Act.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.22 APPLICATION FOR RAFFLE LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, business, corporation, organization, or other entity
seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an application therefor with
the City Clerk on the forms provided by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Applications for licenses under this subchapter must contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant organization;
      (2)   The type of organization that is conducting the raffle, such as
religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, veterans, or other;
      (3)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (4)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization’s presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager, and any other
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
      (5)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single raffle;
      (6)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle;
      (7)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold;
      (8)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold;
      (9)   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (10)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
      (11)   The date, time, and name and address of the location or locations
at which winning chances will be determined;
      (12)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization; and
      (13)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   (C)   An application for a license to conduct or operate a raffle shall be
accompanied by a non-refundable filing fee. Such fee shall be paid by cash,
credit card, or cashier’s check. The City Clerk shall refer the application to
the Mayor.
   (D)   The governing statute states that all licensing systems for raffles
shall provide for limitations upon the aggregate retail value of all prizes or
merchandise awarded by a licensee in a single raffle, the maximum retail value
of each prize awarded by a licensee in a single raffle, the maximum price which
may be charged for each raffle chance issued or sold, and the maximum number of
days during which chances may be issued or sold.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3)
§ 112.23 APPLICATION FOR POKER RUN LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, business, corporation, organization, or other entity
seeking to conduct or operate a poker run shall file an application therefor
with the City Clerk on the forms provided by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Applications for licenses under this subchapter must contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant organization;
      (2)   The type of organization that is conducting the raffle or poker
run, such as religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, veterans, or
other;
      (3)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (4)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization’s presiding officer, secretary, and any other members responsible
for the conduct and operation of the raffle or poker run;
      (5)   The name, address, and telephone number of all locations at which
the poker run will be conducted;
      (6)   The time period during which the poker run will be conducted;
      (7)   The time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which the winning chances will be determined;
      (8)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization; and
      (9)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   (C)   An application for a license to conduct or operate a poker run shall
be accompanied by a non-refundable $25 filing fee. Such fee shall be paid by
cash, cashier’s check, or credit card. The City Clerk shall refer the
application to the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 112.24 LICENSE QUALIFICATIONS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Licensee qualifications.
      (1)   Raffle licenses and poker run licenses shall be issued only to bona
fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or
veterans’ organizations that operate without profit to their members and which
have been in existence continuously for a period of five years immediately
before making application for a license and which have had during that entire
five-year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects
or to a non-profit fundraising organization that the Mayor determines is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident, or disaster. The
Mayor may waive the five-year requirement under this division (A) for a bona
fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or
veterans’ organization that applies for a license to conduct a raffle or poker
run if the organization is a local organization that is affiliated with and
chartered by a national or state organization that meets the five-year
requirement.
      (2)   The following are ineligible for any raffle or poker run license:
         (a)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
         (b)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
         (c)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
         (d)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A)(2)
(a) through (A)(2)(c) above has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest or
in which such person is active or employed;
         (e)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A)(2)
(a) through (A)(2)(c) above is an officer, director, or employee, whether
compensated or not; and
         (f)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A)(2)
(a) through (A)(2)(c) above is to participate in the management or operation of
a poker run as defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)
   (B)   License issuance.
      (1)   The Mayor shall review all raffle license applications and all
poker run license applications. The Mayor shall, within 30 days from the date
of application, accept or reject a raffle or poker run license application. If
an application is accepted, the Mayor shall forthwith issue a raffle or poker
run license to the applicant.
      (2)   A raffle license or poker run license shall specify:
         (a)   The area or areas within the county in which raffle chances will
be sold or issued or a poker run will be conducted;
         (b)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued or a poker run will be conducted; and
         (c)   The time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which the winning chances will be determined.
      (3)   Any license issued under this subchapter shall be non-transferable.
      (4)   A license shall be valid for one raffle event or one poker run
only, unless the Mayor specifically authorized a specified number of raffles or
poker runs to be conducted during a specified period not to exceed one year.
      (5)   A raffle license or poker run license may be suspended or revoked
for any misrepresentation on the application, any violation of this subchapter
or state law, or when such raffle or poker run or portion thereof is conducted
so as to constitute a public nuisance or to disturb the peace, health, safety,
or welfare.
      (6)   Prominent display of license is required.
         (a)   A raffle license shall be prominently displayed at the time and
location of the determination of the winning chances.
         (b)   A poker run license shall be prominently displayed at each
location at which the poker run is conducted or operated.
      (7)   Any poker run license issued shall cover the entire poker run,
including locations other than the key location. Each license issued shall
include the name and address of each location at which the poker run will be
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6)
§ 112.25 CONDUCT OF RAFFLE AND POKER RUNS.
   (A)   The operation and conduct of raffles and poker runs are subject to the
following restrictions.
      (1)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle or poker run must be
exclusively devoted to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to
conduct that game.
      (2)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
      (3)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
      (4)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this subchapter. A premises where a poker run is held is not required to
obtain a license if the name and location of the premises is listed as a
predetermined location on the license issued for the poker run and the premises
does not charge for use of the premises.
      (5)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the raffle license and winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified on the license for a raffle. A playing card or equivalent
item may be drawn only within the area specified on the poker run license and
winning hands or scores may be determined only at those locations specified on
said license.
      (6)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances or poker runs only with the permission of a
parent or guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area
where winning chances in a raffle or winning hands or scores in a poker run are
being determined only when accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
   (B)   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance on a raffle or a
winning hand or score in a poker run is determined, the lessor shall not be
criminally liable if the person who uses the premises for the determining of
winning chances does not hold a license issued by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7)
§ 112.26 MANAGER; BOND.
   (A)   All operations of and conduct of raffles and poker runs shall be under
the supervision of a single poker run manager designated by the organization.
The manager or operator of the raffle or poker run must be a bona fide member
of the organization holding the license for such a raffle or poker run and may
not receive any remuneration or profit for participating in the management or
operation of the raffle or poker run.
   (B)   The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of $1,000
conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his or her duties.
Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
city not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized to waive this bond requirement by including a
waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under this
subchapter, provided that a license containing such waiver provision shall be
granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8)
§ 112.27 RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances or
poker runs shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds
for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances in a raffle or
winning hands or scores in a poker run are determined.
      (2)   All deductions from the gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles or poker runs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if Bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the State Department of Revenue and
placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of
its raffles or poker runs. The person who accounts for the gross receipts,
expenses, and net proceeds from the operation of raffles or poker runs shall
not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles or poker runs shall
report monthly to its membership, and to the City Clerk, its gross receipts,
expenses, and net proceeds from raffles or poker runs and the distribution of
net proceeds itemized as required by this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and the organization shall make available their records relating to operation
of poker runs for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   (E)   The city shall maintain the records required by this section in
compliance with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act and the Local Records Act, 50
ILCS 205/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
§ 112.28 LIMITED APPLICATION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity, or device other than
raffles or poker runs as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-10)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose and findings
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Public nudity
   
113.04   Limited application
   
113.05   Adult entertainment facility location
   
113.06   Liquor
   
113.07   Cabarets; restrictions
   
113.08   Video viewing booths; restrictions
   
113.09   Hours of operations
   
113.10   Investigation of compliance
Licensing
   
113.25   License required
   
113.26   Issuance of licenses
   
113.27   Fees
   
113.28   Inspection
   
113.29   Expiration, suspension, and revocation of license
   
113.30   Transfer of license
   
113.31   Business records
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose and additional findings.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate public
nudity in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of
the citizens of the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials.
      (2)   Findings.
         (a)   The City Council finds:
            1.   Public places allowing nudity lend themselves to ancillary
unlawful and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled;
            2.   Sexual acts, including masturbation and oral and anal sex,
occur at adult-oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, live sex shows, or
public nudity;
            3.   Allowing public nudity creates unhealthy conditions;
            4.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and
other adult-oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such adult-oriented businesses;
            5.   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in adult-oriented businesses involving public nudity, including, but
not limited to, syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection
(HIV-AIDS), genital herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella
infections, and shigella infections;
            6.   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States;
            7.   The Surgeon General of the United States, in his or her report
of October 22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV
infection may be transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse,
exposure to infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to
her newborn;
            8.   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV
infection, as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by
sexual acts;
            9.   Sanitary conditions in some adult-oriented businesses and
those places allowing public nudity are unhealthy, in part, because the
activities conducted there are unhealthy, and, in part, because of the
unregulated nature of the activities, including nudity, and the failure of the
owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities; and
            10.   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is
found in the areas of adult-oriented businesses allowing public nudity and
where persons view adult-oriented films.
         (b)   The findings noted in division (A)(2)(a) raise substantial
governmental concerns.
         (c)   Public places allowing nudity have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
         (d)   The general welfare, health, morals, and safety of the citizens
of the city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27-11-1)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult uses to
protect the community from the many types of criminal activity frequently
associated with such uses. The city recognizes that such regulation cannot
effectively prohibit such uses but can balance the competing interest of the
community in reducing criminal activity and protecting property values versus
the protected rights of the owners, operators, employees, and patrons of adult
uses.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)    General definitions.
      ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An establishment, as defined herein.
      ENTITY. Any proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
business trust, joint venture, joint-stock company, or other for profit or not
for profit organization.
      NUDE. The showing of:
         (a)   Human male or female genitals or pubic area with less than a
fully opaque covering;
         (b)   Any portion of the anal cleft or cleavage of the male or female
buttocks. Attire that is insufficient to comply with this requirement includes,
but is not limited to, G-strings, T-backs, thongs, and any other clothing to
covering that does not completely and opaquely cover the anal cleft or cleavage
of the male or female buttocks; or
         (c)   The portion of the human female breast directly or laterally
below a point immediately above the top of the areola with less than a fully
opaque covering; this definition shall include the entire lower portion of the
human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the
human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit,
or other clothing, provided the areola is not exposed.
      PERSON. Any live human being aged ten years of age or older.
      PLACE PROVIDED OR SET APART FOR NUDITY. Enclosed single sex public
restrooms; enclosed single sex functional shower, locker, and/or dressing room
facilities; and enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for
sleeping accommodations, doctor’s offices, portions of hospitals, and similar
places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected
outside of the home and sphere of privacy constitutionally protected therein.
This term shall not be deemed to include places where a person’s conduct of
being nude is used for his or her profit or where being nude is used for the
promotion of business or is otherwise commercially exploited.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any location frequented by the public or where the public
is present or likely to be present or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. PUBLIC PLACES include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business, and commercial
establishments (whether for profit or not for profit (whether open to the
public at large or whether entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement) hotels, motels, restaurants, night clubs, country clubs, cabarets,
and meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social, fraternal, or similar
organizations. Premises or portions thereof, such as homes and hotel rooms used
solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in nature, shall
not be deemed to be a PUBLIC PLACE.
(Prior Code, § 27-11-2)
   (B)   More specific definitions.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin-operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials or an establishment that holds
itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or
coin-operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises, or
any other factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which:
         (a)   Features topless dancers, strippers, “go-go” dancers, male or
female impersonators, and lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
         (b)   Not infrequently, features entertainers who display specified
anatomical areas; or
         (c)   Features entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or
conduct, perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the
prurient interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in or are
engaged in explicit simulation of specified sexual activities.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
novelties, lotions, and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises, or any other factors
showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such material.
      ADULT USE. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, adult clubs allowing nudity at regular or frequent
times, adult novelty stores, and other similar uses.
      EMPLOYEE or EMPLOYEES. Independent contractors or any other person who is
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area,
female breasts with less than a full opaque covering below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state,
even if completely and opaquely covered; or that portion of the buttocks which
would be covered by a properly worn thong-type bikini bottom.
      PUBLIC PLACE.
         (a)   PUBLIC PLACE means any location frequented by the public or
where the public is present or likely to be present or where a person may
reasonably be expected to be observed by members of the public. PUBLIC PLACES
include, but are not limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business
and commercial establishments (whether for profit or not-for-profit and whether
open to the public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or
membership requirement), hotels, motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country
clubs, cabarets, and meeting facilities utilized by social, fraternal, or
similar organizations.
         (b)   Premises used solely as a private residence, whether permanent
or temporary in nature, shall not be deemed a PUBLIC PLACE. PUBLIC PLACES shall
not include enclosed single sex public restrooms; enclosed single sex
functional showers, lockers, and/or dressing room facilities; and enclosed
motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for sleeping accommodations,
doctors offices, churches, synagogues, or similar places when used for
circumcisions, baptisms, or similar religious ceremonies nor portions of
hospitals and similar places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and
customarily expected outside of the home nor shall it include a person
appearing in a state of nudity in a modeling class operated by a proprietary
school licensed by the state; a college, junior college, or university
supported entirely or partly by taxation; or a private college or university
which maintains and operates educational programs in which credits are
transferable to a college, junior college, or a university supported entirely
or partly by taxation or an accredited private college.
      SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
         (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, means less than completely and
opaquely covered:
            1.   Human genitals;
            2.   Pubic region;
            3.   Buttocks;
            4.   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
            5.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         (b)   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Specified criminal activity means
any of the following offenses:
            1.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
sexual performance by a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography;
public lewdness; public indecency; indecency with a child; engaged in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling;
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
            2.   For which:
               a.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction
which is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
               b.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
               c.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement from the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurred within any
24-month period.
            3.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. For the purpose of this chapter, means:
         (a)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; and
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or female breasts.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 113.03 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally appear
nude in a public place or in any other place that is readily visible to the
public, except a place provided or set apart for nudity. It shall also be
unlawful for any person or entity maintaining, owning, or operating any public
place to operate and to knowingly or with reason to know, permit, or allow any
person to appear nude in such public place, except a place provided or set
apart for nudity.
(Prior Code, § 27-11-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 LIMITED APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall not be deemed to address photographs, movies, video
presentations, or any other non-live performance.
(Prior Code, § 27-11-4)
§ 113.05 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, within a municipality, to locate an adult
entertainment facility within 1,000 feet of the property boundaries of any
school, daycare center, cemetery, public park, forest preserve, public housing,
and place of religious worship.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY means:
      (1)   A striptease club or pornographic movie theater whose business is
the commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit
material, shows, or other exhibitions; or
      (2)   An adult bookstore or adult video store in which 25% or more of its
stock-in-trade, books, magazines, and films for sale, exhibition, or viewing
on-premises are sexually explicit material.
(Prior Code, § 27-11-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1.5
§ 113.06 LIQUOR.
   (A)   Liquor. No liquor license shall be issued to a licensee or to premises
where adult use is conducted nor shall liquor be sold, given away, or allowed
to be consumed on the premises where any adult use is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-5)
   (B)   Liquor license. No adult use may be issued a liquor license nor shall
any establishment with a liquor license operate as an adult use.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-13)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 CABARETS; RESTRICTIONS.
   All dancing or other performances shall occur on a stage intended for that
purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor. No
dancing or other performance shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron. In
addition, no dancer or performer shall fondle, caress, or otherwise touch any
patron, and no patron shall fondle, caress, or otherwise touch any dancer or
performer. No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or
performer and no dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
Gratuities may be indirectly given to dancers or performers by placing the
gratuity on the stage.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms
used for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall
have doors, curtains, or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls, or
partitioned portions or a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room. All such described areas shall be lighted
in such a manner that the persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures
or other forms of entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but
such lighting shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the view of the
motion pictures or other offered entertainment.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 HOURS OF OPERATIONS.
   No adult use shall be open prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 2:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   Any licensee hereunder shall permit law enforcement officials free and
unlimited access to the premises during hours of operation, upon reasonable
request, for the purposes of investigating compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-17)
LICENSING
§ 113.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult use without a
valid adult-use business license issued by the city pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (B)   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
subchapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as is needed to enable the city to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
subchapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use is an individual, the
person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If the applicant
is a club, consisting of private or public membership, then such entity shall
also be licensed under this subchapter. If a person who wishes to operate an
adult use is other than an individual or club, each individual who has a 20% or
greater interest in the business, including corporations, must sign the
application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under
the following section and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if the
license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for an adult-use business license shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, his or her legal name and any
aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
      (2)   If the applicant is a club, consisting of private or public
membership, a copy of the bylaws of the club must be submitted with the
application. In addition, a sworn statement as to the purposes, general
activities, and requirement for club membership must be submitted;
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, its complete name and the names
of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a copy of
the partnership agreement, if any;
      (4)   If the applicant is a corporation, its complete name, the date of
incorporation; evidence that the corporation is in good standing under the laws
of its state of incorporation; the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and principal shareholders (those with a 20% or more stake); and the
name and address of the registered corporate agent;
      (5)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult-use business under a
name other than that of the application, he or she must state:
         (a)   The business’ fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit any required registration documents.
      (6)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any specified criminal
activity, as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each;
      (7)   (a)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this
chapter or similar ordinances from another jurisdiction denied, suspended, or
revoked, including the name and location of the business which the permit was
denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of the denial, suspension, or
revocation.
         (b)   If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an
officer, director, or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was
licensed under this subchapter or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction and
a license has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked; include the name
and location of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or
revoked; as well as the date of denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (8)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this
subchapter or other similar ordinance from another jurisdiction, and if so, the
names and locations of such other licensed businesses; and
      (9)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business. This sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.26 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed adult-use business license
application, the city shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The city shall approve the issuance of a license unless it
determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any business;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (4)   The applicant has been denied a license by the city to operate an
adult-use business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate
an adult-use business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined herein;
      (6)   The premises to be used for adult-use business has not been
inspected and approved by the Fire Department and the Building Department as
being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this subchapter has not been paid; and
      (8)   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation or not
in compliance with all of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the adult-use business.
      (2)   All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any time.
   (C)   The Fire Department and code enforcement officers shall complete their
inspection certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance with city codes within 20 days of receipt of the application by the
city.
   (D)   No adult-use business license shall be issued unless it meets all
criteria set forth in the Zoning Code. However, an adult-use business license
may be issued for a premises which is a legal nonconforming use which has not
yet been amortized or for a premises where such amortization is being
challenged by litigation.
   (E)   No signs, advertising, or other notice to the public may be given for
any premises where adult use is conducted pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 113.27 FEES.
   Every application for an adult-use business license (whether a new license
or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a $1,000 non-
refundable application and investigation fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6)
§ 113.28 INSPECTION.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department, Building Department, or other city or city-
designated departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult use for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of this chapter at any
time it is occupied or open for business. A person who operates an adult use or
his or her agent or employee violates this subchapter if he or she refuses to
permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7)
§ 113.29 EXPIRATION, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Expiration of license. Each license shall expire on the January 1
after it was issued and may be renewed only by making application as provided
in §
113.26. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of license will not be affected. If the city denies renewal of a
license, the applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date
of denial. If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial
of the license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-8)
   (B)   Suspension.
      (1)   The city may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if, after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
         (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult-use business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or
         (c)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult-use
business premises.
      (2)   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found
guilty in a court of law of a violation of this chapter, no hearing is
necessary prior to suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-9)
   (C)   Revocation.
      (1)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
division (A) above occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months or if the licensee is convicted of any specified criminal
activity.
      (2)   The city may revoke a license if it determines, after a hearing,
that:
         (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
         (b)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed
possession, use, or sale of alcohol or controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   A licensee or management personnel knowingly operated the adult-
use business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
         (d)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed any act
of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other sex act
to occur in or on the licensed premises;
         (e)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or
state for any taxes or fees past due;
         (f)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly facilitated
another’s commission of the offense of public indecency; or
         (g)   The adult use is a public nuisance as defined by statute,
ordinance, or case law.
      (3)   If the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an adult-use business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the factual basis for the revocation did not
occur, the applicant may be granted a license.
      (4)   After denial of an application or denial of a renewal of an
application or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-10)
§ 113.30 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another nor shall a
licensee operate an adult-use business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address on the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.31 BUSINESS RECORDS.
   All adult uses shall file a verified report with the city showing the
licensee’s gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the preceding
calendar year. In addition, all adult uses shall maintain and retain for a
period of two years, the names, addresses, and ages of all persons employed,
including independent contractors, by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-12)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Service provider fee imposed
   
114.03   Peg access support fee imposed
   
114.04   Applicable principals
   
114.05   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
114.06   Audits
   
114.07   Late fees; payments
   
114.08   Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder’s cable service or video service area within
the city.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and
repair charges;
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds, check charges,
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments;
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
city. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the city
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement;
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a home shopping or similar channel, subject to division (1)(i) below;
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications,
the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business; and
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/22-501.
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to 220 ILCS 5/22-501;
         (b)   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to non-
cable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders;
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies, in writing, that
it will resell the service within the city and pay the fee permitted by 220
ILCS 5/22-501, with respect to the service;
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes;
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to home shopping or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of GROSS REVENUES to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/22-501, which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-
501.
   SERVICE. The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and 220 ILCS 5/22-
501 by the holder to a city for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE.
      (1)   Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology.
      (2)   This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d) or any video
programming provided solely as part of and via service that enables users to
access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered over
the public internet.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 5/21-401 and 220 ILCS 5/22-501
§ 114.02 SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the city.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder’s gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the city. The holder shall notify the city at least ten days
prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video
service in the city.
   (D)   Holder’s liability.
      (1)   The holder shall be liable for and pay the service provider fee to
the city. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence on the first day of
the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the ordinance adopting
this subchapter by the holder.
      (2)   The ordinance adopting this subchapter shall be sent by mail,
postage prepaid, to the address listed on the holder’s application notice sent
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501 to the city.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the city in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501 with credit to
prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under the law.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 5/22-501
§ 114.03 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   PEG fee imposed. A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the city in addition to the
fee imposed pursuant to §
114.02(B).
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be 1% of the holder’s gross revenues or, if greater, the percentage of
gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the city or its designee
for PEG access support in the city.
   (C)   Payment. The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the city
or to the entity designated by the city to manage PEG access. The holder’s
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in §
114.02(D).
   (D)   Payment due. The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (E)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501 shall pay, at the
time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG access that would
have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had it not been
terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an incumbent cable
operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees
that the operator owed under division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 5/22-501
§ 114.04 APPLICABLE PRINCIPALS.
   All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 114.05 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to exempt a holder
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the city, including any tax
that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with
respect to cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the City
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state-issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government’s 9-1-1 or E9-1-1 fees, taxes, or charges.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 114.06 AUDITS.
   (A)   Audit requirement.
      (1)   The city will notify the holder of the requirements it imposes on
other cable service or video service providers to submit to an audit of its
books and records. The holder shall comply with the same requirements the city
imposes on other cable service or video service providers in its jurisdiction
to audit the holder’s books and records and to re-computed any amounts
determined to be payable under the requirements of the city.
      (2)   If all local franchises between the city and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the city pursuant
to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.,
(see
Chapter 35). No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord
that the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the municipality’s submission of an invoice for the
sum.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
§ 114.07 LATE FEES; PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill
of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq. and 220 ILCS 5/22-501
§ 114.08 CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW.
   (A)   Customer service and privacy protection.
      (1)   Adoption. The regulations of 220 ILCS 5/22-501 are hereby adopted
by reference and may applicable to the cable or video providers offering
services within the city’s boundaries.
      (2)   Amendments.
      (1)   Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection Law that
becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the city’s boundaries.
      (2)   However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for
adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
   (B)   Enforcement. The city does hereby, pursuant to law, declare its intent
to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards of the
Cable and Video Protection Law, with respect to complaints received from
residents within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
   (C)   Customer credits. The city hereby adopts the schedule of customer
credits for violations.
      (1)   Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220
ILCS 5/22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the
next billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the
violation.
      (2)   The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the
credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 5/22-501 and 220 ILCS 5/22-501(s)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The city, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(l), does hereby provide for
a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the Cable and Video
Protection Law by cable or video providers in addition to the penalties
provided in the law.
   (B)   The monetary penalties shall apply on a competitively neutral basis
and shall not exceed $750 for each day of the material breach and shall not
exceed $25,000 for each occurrence of a material breach per customer.
      (1)   Material breach means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
      (2)   The city shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least 30
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
      (3)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall
be deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (B)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(l)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
115.001   Definitions
   
115.002   Exclusion
Licenses
   
115.015   License required
   
115.016   Applications
   
115.017   Examination, qualifications of licensees
   
115.018   Term; fee submitted in advance
   
115.019   Classification; fee
   
115.020   Nature of license; limitations
   
115.021   Renewal of licenses
   
115.022   Dramshop insurance required
   
115.023   Display of licenses
   
115.024   Revocation of license
Sales and Premises Regulations
   
115.035   Hours; when sale allowed
   
115.036   Location regulations
   
115.037   Sanitary conditions; diseased employees; health permit
   
115.038   Restrictions on licensee
   
115.039   Prohibited sales
   
115.040   Persons selling
   
115.041   Unlawful purchase
   
115.042   Identification required
   
115.043   Warning posted
   
115.044   Owner permitting violation
   
115.045   Acts of agent or employee; liability
   
115.046   Restriction of sale and consumption
Violations; Prohibited Conduct
   
115.060   Unlawful acts enumerated
   
115.061   Unlawful entertainment
   
115.062   Peddling alcohol
   
115.063   Gambling
   
115.064   Disorderly house
   
115.065   Underaged persons on premises
   
115.066   False identification
   
115.067   Underage drinking on streets
   
115.068   Residential drinking violations
   
115.069   Renting hotel for drinking
   
115.070   Misbranding
   
115.071   Liquor in vehicles, in public
Administration
   
115.085   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
115.086   Record of licenses
   
115.087   Inspections
   
115.088   Books and records
   
115.089   Abatement
   
115.090   Complaint by residents
   
115.091   Liquor Commissioner to suspend or revoke license; appeals
   
115.092   Subsequent violations; appeals
 
   
115.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
references to “Rules” refer to Illinois Liquor Control Commission Rules,
located in Ill. Adm. Code Title 11; Subtitle A; Chapter 1; Part 1; §§ 100.5 et
seq.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof and includes synthetic
ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
      (1)   Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, and beer and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by human beings.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in
the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of
Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder nor to any liquid or solid
containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by volume.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.05)
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.04)
   BEER GARDEN. An open unroofed area where beer and other alcoholic beverages
are served or consumed.
   CATERER RETAILER. A person who serves alcoholic liquors for consumption,
either onsite or offsite, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as an
incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are sold
at a package price agreed upon under contract.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.34)
   CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person and the
entire suspension of business.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring, or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing, and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, such CLUB files with the Mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of names and
residences of its members, and similarly files, within ten days of the election
of any additional member, his or her name and address, and provided further,
that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting and that no member or officer, agent, or employee of the CLUB is paid
or directly or indirectly receives in the form of salary or other compensation
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the CLUB or
its members or guests introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at the annual meeting by the members or by the board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
(235 ILCS 5/13.24)
   CORPORATION. Any corporation, domestic or foreign, qualified to do business
in the state under the Business Corporation Act (Rule 100.10(b)).
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. See SPIRITS.
   EVENT. A single theme (Rules and Regulations 100.10(o)).
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised,
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent, or residential in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith, and such building or buildings, structure,
or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen or dining room
equipment and capacity.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.25)
   MANAGER or AGENT. Any individual employed by any licensed place of business,
provided said individual possess the same qualifications required of the
licensee. Satisfactory evidence of such employment will be furnished by the
commission in the form and manner as such commission shall from time to time
prescribe (Rule 100.10(f)).
   MAYOR. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, as provided in 235 ILCS,
entitled “Dramshop” and all references to Liquor Commissioner shall refer to
the Mayor unless otherwise provided.
   MEAL. Food that is prepared and served on the licensed premises and excludes
the serving of snacks (Rules and Regulations 100.10(n)).
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead,
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked, or capped, sealed,
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.06)
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
   PARTNER. Any individual who is a member of a co-partnership. CO-PARTNERSHIP
means an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners of a
business for profit (Rules and Regulations 100.10(d)(e)).
   PREMISES/PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place or location where alcoholic beverages
are manufactured, stored, displayed, offered for sale, or where drinks
containing alcoholic beverages are mixed, concocted, and served for
consumption. Not included are sidewalks, street, parking areas, and grounds
adjacent to any such place or location (Rules and Regulations 100.10(g)).
   PRIVATE FUNCTION. A prearranged private party, function, or event for a
specific social or business occasion, either by invitation or reservation and
not open to the general public, where the guests in attendance are served in a
room or rooms designated and used exclusively for the private party, function,
or event.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or partly enclosed and
partly unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels, or merchandise are
offered for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club
room, or meeting place. The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC PREMISES shall be
interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENT. Any person (other than a corporation) who has resided and
maintained a bona fide residence in the state for at least one year and in the
city, village, and county in which the premises covered by the license are
located for at least 90 days prior to making application for such license and
is a registered voter (Rule 100.10(a)).
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually
are served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.23)
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17)
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.21)
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE OF RETAIL. Any mean sales for use or consumption and
not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.18)
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious, or non-profit organization.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.30)
   SPECIAL EVENTS RETAILER. An educational, fraternal, political, civic,
religious, or non-profit organization which sells or offers for sale beer or
wine or both only for consumption at the location and on the dates designated
by a special event retail license.
(235 ILCS 5/13.17.1)
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.02)
   TO SELL. To keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.22)
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above defined.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.03)
(Prior Code, § 21-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS
§ 115.002 EXCLUSION.
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by an underaged person of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or the
consumption by an underaged person under the direct supervision and approval of
the parent or parents of such underaged person in the privacy of a home is not
prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
LICENSES
§ 115.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, keep, or offer for sale at retail or conduct any
place for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and
territory of this municipality without having a license to do so, issued by the
Mayor of this municipality in the manner hereinafter provided and a valid
license for such purpose issued by the State Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   A similar valid license issued by the Mayor of this municipality is
hereby required for and with respect to each building, location, and premises
within the aforesaid territory of this municipality at or upon which alcoholic
liquor is to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.016 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals,
firms, and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of this municipality
upon the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the Act
of the State General Assembly and not otherwise. Such license shall be in
writing, signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk, with the seal of
his or her office affixed thereto.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a license, the applicant must submit to the Mayor
an application in triplicate, in writing, and under oath, stating the
following:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and the name of the person who will be
managing the establishment for which the license is sought; and if a majority
in interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or
her nominee, the address and name of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant and his or her place of birth and,
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant and, in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character or, in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   Whether applicant has made similar application for a similar other
license on premises other than described in the application and the disposition
of such application;
      (7)   The applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly or in this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state or
subdivision thereof or by the federal government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor; and
      (9)   He or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of the
United States or any of the provisions of this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   (C)   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner and
with respect to a corporation, the information and statements required by this
section shall be furnished as to the president of the corporation, the
secretary of the corporation, the directors of the corporation, and with
respect to the person who is to manage the establishment for which a license is
sought.
   (D)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club, or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to
by at least two members of such partnership, firm, association, or club or by
the president and secretary of such corporation.
   (E)   (1)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Mayor and
one copy given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall endorse on the
copies his or her approval or disapproval of the application and may make
further comments regarding that application.
      (2)   The copies shall be returned to the Mayor and the endorsement and
comment of the Chief of Police shall be considered by him or her as an aid in
deciding whether the license should be issued or refused.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-1
§ 115.017 EXAMINATION, QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEES.
   (A)   Examination of applicant. The Mayor shall have the right to examine or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for
renewal thereof or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served in the manner hereinafter provided and to examine or cause to
be examined the books and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear
testimony and take proof for his or her information in the performance of his
or her duties; and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective
in any part of this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired by the Mayor under this division (A), he or she may authorize his or
her agent to act on his or her behalf.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-3)
   (B)   Prohibited licensees. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(21)
below, no license of any kind shall be issued by the Mayor to the following:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this municipality;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not 21 years of age;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the Commission determines that such person has been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering
matters set forth in such person’s application and the Commission’s
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is
keeping a house of ill-fame;
      (6)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
      (7)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause;
      (8)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon first
application;
      (9)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any
limited partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited
partner interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political
subdivision, unless residency is required by local ordinance;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
      (11)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act
of 1983 to transact business in the state;
      (12)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by
the licensee;
      (13)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this Act or has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
      (14)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
      (15)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of Local
Liquor Control Commissions, any Mayor, or Alderpersons, and no such official
shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of
alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted to such official in
relation to premises that are not located within the territory, subject to the
jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is approved by
the State Liquor Control Commission and except that a license may be granted,
in a city with a population of 50,000 or less, to any Alderperson, member of a
City Council, in relation to premises that are located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the sale of alcoholic liquor
pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling of food, the issuance of
the license is approved by the State Commission, the issuance of the license is
in accordance with all applicable local ordinances in effect where the premises
are located, and the official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic
liquor issues pending before the Board or Council to which the license holder
is elected;
      (16)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      (17)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
prescribed by any of subsections § 28-1 (a)(3) through (a)(11) or as proscribed
by §§ 28-1.1 or 28-3 of the Criminal Code of 1961 or as prescribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      (18)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under the Raffles Act or the State Pull Tabs and Jar Games
Act;
      (19)   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in 235 ILCS 5/6-21;
      (20)   A person who is delinquent in the payment of any indebtedness or
obligation to the city;
      (21)   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the
denial, suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the
corporation if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any
federal or state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of
alcoholic liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any
financial gain to the corporation and the corporation has terminated its
relationship with each director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder
whose actions directly contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The
Mayor shall determine if all provisions of this division (B)(21) have been met
before any action on the corporation’s license is initiated;
      (22)   A co-partnership to which a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government for the current tax period or if any of the partners
have been issued a federal gaming device stamps or federal wagering stamp by
the federal government for the current tax period; and
      (23)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal wagering stamp for the current tax
period.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-5, 235 ILCS 5/6-2, and 235 ILCS 5/6-21
§ 115.018 TERM; FEE SUBMITTED IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
12-month period upon the payment of the license fee, as hereinafter set forth,
unless sooner revoked or suspended. The 12-month period shall be from May 1 to
April 30 of the following year. License fees shall be prorated in the year in
which the license is first issued.
   (B)   The license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a
license at the time the application for a license is submitted to the Mayor, as
hereinbefore provided. In the event the license is denied, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited in the
Municipal General Fund. The application for a license shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
   (C)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
   (D)   With respect to a corporation operating an establishment for which a
liquor license has been issued, should the manager of said establishment change
after the issuance of said liquor license, the corporation must submit the new
manager’s name and shall be submitted within 30 days. Continuation of the
license will be contingent upon a background check of the new manager, as set
out in this chapter, and all fees shall be waived should the license be changed
only as a result of a change of managers. If, for some reason, the manager is
not acceptable, the licensee shall have 30 days to submit a new name before
revocation. Failure to provide new information shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of said license.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-5) (Ord. 15-22, passed 11-9-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.019 CLASSIFICATION; FEE.
   Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the city
shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses shall be divided into the
following classes.
   (A)   Class A; convenience store. Class A licenses shall permit the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor in sealed containers for consumption off the premises
where sold only, and not for resale in any form. The annual fee for such
license shall be $1,500. Only two Class A licenses shall be issued.
   (B)   Class B; restaurants. Class B licenses shall permit the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor at a restaurant and/or video gaming business, as defined
herein, for consumption only on the premises where sold and not for resale in
any form. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,000. Only two Class B
licenses shall be issued.
   (C)   Class C. Class C licenses which shall permit the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor at a restaurant and/or video gaming business, as defined
herein, for consumption on and off the premises where sold and not for resale
in any form; the annual fee for such license shall be $1,500. Only a total of
two Class B and C licenses shall be issued.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.020 NATURE OF LICENSE; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Nature of license. A license issued under this subchapter shall be
purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issued
unless sooner revoked as in this subchapter authorized and provided, and shall
not constitute property nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment, or
execution nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors and
administrators of any estate of the deceased licensee and the trustees of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists, in part, of
alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor
under the order of the court having jurisdiction of such estate and may
exercise the privileges of such deceased, insolvent, or bankrupt licensee after
the death of such decedent or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of such license, but not longer than six months after the death,
bankruptcy, or insolvency of such licensee. (See Attorney General’s Report No.
703; 01-08-48.)
(Prior Code, § 21-2-8)
   (B)   Limitation of licenses.
      (1)   Annexing license holders. The restrictions contained in this
chapter shall, in no way, affect taverns and other business(es) holding retail
liquor licenses, duly licensed by the county, which are located in the
territory annexed to the municipality. Licenses may be issued to them or
renewed by the duly constituted authorities upon annexation; provided,
thereafter, all of the restrictions and contingencies contained herein shall
apply.
      (2)   Destroyed or damaged business. No license shall be held in
existence by the mere payment of fees by any person, firm, or corporation for a
period longer than 90 days without a tavern or liquor business for the same
being in complete and full operation. However, if a tavern or liquor business
has been destroyed or damaged by fire or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or
repaired within the 90-day period, then, in that event, the Mayor shall extend
the period of time for which a liquor license may be held by the mere payment
of fees without the tavern or liquor business being in full and complete
operation for an additional 90 days. If either of the above stated periods of
time passes without the particular tavern or liquor business returning to
complete and full operation, the license for that particular business shall
expire and not be subject to renewal, unless all other requirements of this
chapter shall have been met.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1 and 235 ILCS 5/6-1
§ 115.021 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Any Class A or Class C licensee may renew his, her, their, or its
license at the expiration thereof, provided that he, she, they, or it is or are
then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought are suitable for such purpose; provided, further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the City Council from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within the city.
   (B)   Any Class B licensee may renew his, her, their, or its license at the
expiration thereof, provided that the applicant, upon request, submits to the
Liquor Control Commissioner sufficient documentation to establish that at least
51% of the gross retail sales at that location in the license period
immediately preceding that year were collected from the sales of nonalcoholic
beverages and food if the license is issued to a restaurant, but in all other
cases where the sale of alcoholic beverages is intended to comprise 49% or less
of the gross retail sales, the licensee must, upon request of the Liquor
Control Commissioner, submit sufficient documentation to establish that
beverage sales shall not apply to a licensee that has no restaurant or food
service but which has a video gaming facility.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-7) (Ord. 14-22, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 115.022 DRAMSHOP INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with
the application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, certifying that the applicant has the following coverages up to
the full amount of potential liability as established by the State Compiled
Statutes from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-21
§ 115.023 DISPLAY OF LICENSES.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-24
§ 115.024 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Revocation of license after conviction. Whenever any licensee shall be
convicted of any violation of this chapter, the license of said licensee may,
in the discretion of the Mayor, be revoked and forfeited and all fees paid
thereon shall be forfeited, and it shall, thereafter, be unlawful and shall
constitute a further violation of this chapter for said licensee to continue to
operate under such license.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-3)
   (B)   Revocation of license when employee convicted. Whenever any officer,
director, manager, or other employee in a position of authority of any licensee
under this chapter shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter while
engaged in the course of his or her employment or while upon the premises
described by the license, the license shall be revoked and the fees paid
thereon forfeited, both as to the holder of the license and as to the premises,
as if said licensee had, himself or herself, been convicted.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-4)
   (C)   Use of premises for one year after revocation. When any license has
been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted for the same premises
for a period of one year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-13, 235 ILCS 5/10-4, and 235 ILCS 5/10-
5
SALES AND PREMISES REGULATIONS
§ 115.035 HOURS; WHEN SALE ALLOWED.
   (A)   Hours.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any
alcoholic liquor at a Class A or B establishment in the city other than as set
forth herein below:
         (a)   Sunday: there shall be no sales on Sundays;
         (b)   Monday: 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         (c)   Tuesday: 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         (d)   Wednesday: 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         (e)   Thursday: 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         (f)   Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m., midnight;
         (g)   Saturday: 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m., midnight; and
         (h)   Monday from August 1 to February 1: 10:00 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not prevent restaurants from being kept
open for business during other hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold or
consumed by the public during such hours.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-1)
   (B)   Election days. All such licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail,
by the drink, or in the original package for consumption either on or off the
premises licensed on the day of any national, state, county, or municipal
election, including primary elections during the hours the polls are open
within the political area in which such election is being held and on Sundays;
subject to all the remaining terms, conditions, and opening hours and closing
hours as set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-9)
Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.036 LOCATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited locations.
      (1)   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at
retail within 100 feet of any church, school (other than an institution of
higher learning), hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons, or for
veterans, their spouses, or children or any military or naval station;
provided, this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service or regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops, or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on or if such place of business so exempted shall have been established
for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this chapter nor to the renewal
of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on the premises within
100 feet of any church or school where such church or school has been
established within such 100 feet since the issuance of the original license.
      (2)   In the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured
to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational
programs and not to property boundaries.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit the issuance of a
license to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any
such sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises
solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-2)
   (B)   Change of location. A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the Mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the
proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
under the law of this state and the code of this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-3)
   (C)   Stores selling school supplies, lunches, and the like. No license
shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor at
any store or other place of business where the majority of customers are minors
of school age or where the principal business transacted consists of school
books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for such minors.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-4)
   (D)   Restricted residential areas. It shall be unlawful to establish a
retail liquor business within the municipality in violation of the restrictions
of the Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-8)
Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-11, 235 ILCS 5/6-12, and 235 ILCS 5/7-
14
§ 115.037 SANITARY CONDITIONS; DISEASED EMPLOYEES; HEALTH PERMIT.
   (A)   Sanitary conditions. All premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor or for the storage of such liquor for such sale shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the
codes regulating the condition of the premises used for the storage or sale of
food for human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-12)
   (B)   Diseased employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises
used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with
or who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease; it
shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation, or distribution of such liquor.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-13)
   (C)   Health permit. Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid
operating permit from the County Health Department which regulates health
standards.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-14)
Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 410 ILCS 650/1 et seq. and 410 ILCS 650/10
§ 115.038 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEE.
   (A)   In addition to the restrictions on licensing, the holder of a license
is subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any licensee to accept, receive, or borrow money
or anything of value directly or indirectly from any manufacturer or
distributor of alcoholic liquor.
(235 ILCS 5/6-5)
      (2)   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall
deny or permit his or her agents or employees to deny any person the full and
equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges
of any premises in which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject
only to the conditions and limitations established by law and applicable alike
to all citizens.
(235 ILCS 5/6-17)
      (3)   No licensee shall sell liquor to any persons on credit or in
payment for services rendered but this does not apply to clubs and hotels and
liquor purchased for consumption off the premises.
(235 ILCS 5/6-19)
      (4)   No licensee shall fill or refill in whole or in part any original
package of alcohol with the same or other liquor and no liquor shall be sold
except in original packages.
(235 ILCS 5/6-22)
      (5)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to or under the control of a municipality except in connection with
the operation of an established food service facility or at a site specifically
provided for in the Act and where dramshop insurance coverage is provided.
(235 ILCS 5/6-15)
      (6)   An established place of business is a prerequisite to the issuance
of a license.
   (B)   Revocation of a license when a licensee ceases to operate the business
before the license expires is within the authority of the Commissioner on the
grounds of non-use. (See Goode V. Thomas 31 III. App. 3d 674, 1975.)
(Prior Code, § 21-3-29) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.039 PROHIBITED SALES.
   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years or to any intoxicated person or to any person
known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane or mentally
ill, mentally deficient, or in need of mental treatment. No person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor shall sell, give, or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-18) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 115.040 PERSONS SELLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to attend any
bar or to sell, draw, pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-19) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.041 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE.
   Any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-21) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/620
§ 115.042 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (B)   Proof that the defendant/licensee or his or her employees or agent
demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/620
§ 115.043 WARNING POSTED.
    In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be
displayed, at all times, in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be
supplied by the City Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
 
UNDERAGE LIQUOR WARNING
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS MUNICIPALITY
IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
 
(Prior Code, § 21-3-24)
§ 115.044 OWNER PERMITTING VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises or the agent of such owner or
person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent, or other person
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as
said licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-1) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-2
§ 115.045 ACTS OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE; LIABILITY.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager, or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or
her personally.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-2) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-3
§ 115.046 RESTRICTION OF SALE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No Class A, Class B, or Class C licensee shall sell, give, deliver, or
allow to be consumed alcoholic liquor on the premises set forth in the
application and license issued to, except within the building or structure
located on the premises. No person shall leave the licensee’s building
structure with open liquor.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the consumption
of alcoholic beverages with meals in outdoor dining areas on the premises of a
Class B (restaurant) licensee provided that such outdoor dining area is
attached to the main building and is sufficiently enclosed to prevent access
except from within the main building.
   (C)   No Class B licensee shall sell, give, deliver, or allow to be consumed
alcoholic liquor on the premises set forth in the application and license
issued to, except during such times when the kitchen is in full operation and
meals are being served.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-25)
VIOLATIONS; PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 115.060 UNLAWFUL ACTS ENUMERATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the following
acts within the city, to-wit:
   (A)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public way without special permission granted by the Mayor;
   (B)   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the Mayor;
   (C)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without permission
of an owner thereof; and
   (D)   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place, including parks and recreation areas in an intoxicated condition.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-10) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.061 UNLAWFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No licensee or his or her agent, servant, or employee shall permit or
allow any lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee and/
or employees (TOPLESS being defined as naked and substantially without clothing
or covering of the body from the waist to the neckline and bottomless being
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist downward) or entertainment to be performed within the licensed
premises by an entertainer employed therein or by any employee or guest.
   (B)   Nor shall any licensee or his or her agent, servant, or employee
permit or allow any employee or guest or any other person whomever to solicit
or encourage the purchasing of any alcoholic liquor or beverage of any
description or the giving of any gratuity or gift by any patron or guest to or
for the benefit of such employee or guest.
   (C)   The following kinds of conduct on premises in this municipality
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts;
      (2)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing, or
fondling of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair anus, vulva, or genitals;
      (4)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva, or anus; and
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which are prohibited by the regulations quoted above.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-11) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.062 PEDDLING ALCOHOL.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-15) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.063 GAMBLING.
   It is unlawful to keep, place, maintain, or operate any gambling device or
instrument in and upon the premises used or occupied as a place where alcoholic
liquor is sold or given away, except in the following instances:
   (A)   Bingo. When conducting or participating in the game commonly known as
Bingo, when conducted in accordance with the Bingo License and Tax Act (230
ILCS 25/1 et seq.); and
   (B)   Video poker. Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment,
licensed fraternal organization, or licensed veteran’s establishment, when
conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 21-3-16) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq. and 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
§ 115.064 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer or permit any
disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games, or riotous or
disorderly conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for
the sale of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-17) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.065 UNDERAGED PERSONS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to enter
upon premises where alcoholic liquors, spirits, beer, or wine are sold by the
holder of a Class A license unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
No holder of a Class A license nor any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent, or employee of such licensee shall permit any person
under the age of 21 years not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to
enter the licensed premises.
   (B)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
holder of a Class A license or his or her agent or employee may refuse to
permit entry onto the licensed premises of any person under the age of 21 years
who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of the fact that the person
accompanying such person under the age of 21 years is that person’s parent or
legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-20) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.066 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Transfer of identification card.
      (1)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
      (2)   No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter. The consumption of alcoholic
liquor by any person under the age of 21 years is forbidden.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-23)
   (B)   Selling false identification. Any person who sells, gives, or
furnishes to any person under the age of 21 years any false or fraudulent
written, printed, or photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such
person or who sells, gives, or furnishes to any person under the age of 21
years evidence of age and identification of any other person is guilty of
violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-30)
   (C)   False identification. Any person under the age of 21 years who
presents or offers to any licensee or his or her agent or employee any written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false,
fraudulent, or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise procuring or attempting to
procure the serving of any alcoholic beverage or who has in his or her
possession any false or fraudulent, written, printed, or photostatic evidence
of age and identity is guilty of violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-31)
Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16 and 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 115.067 UNDERAGE DRINKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Any person under the age of 21 years who has any alcoholic beverage in
his or her possession on any street or highway or in any public place or in any
place open to the public is guilty of violating this chapter.
   (B)   This section does not apply to possession by a person under the age of
21 years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order
of his or her parent or in pursuance of his or her employment.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-32) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 115.068 RESIDENTIAL DRINKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter where he or
she knowingly permits a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of
two or more persons where any one or more of the persons is under 21 years of
age and the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 21
is not otherwise permitted by this chapter; and/or
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 21 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, where the residence has an owner and
a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-33) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 115.069 RENTING HOTEL FOR DRINKING.
   Any person who rents a hotel or motel room from the proprietor or agent
thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such room shall be used
for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of 21 years
shall be guilty of violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-34) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 115.070 MISBRANDING.
   Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell, or, in any way, dispose of any
alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or brand known to the
trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the package or
other containers of the alcoholic liquor or who shall cause any such act to be
done shall forfeit the alcoholic liquor and the packages and containers to the
state and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties provided for
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-5) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-6
§ 115.071 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES, IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Transporting and the like in motor vehicles. No person shall, within
this municipality, transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic liquor in,
upon, or about any motor vehicle in or on any public street, alley, or place
except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-5)
   (B)   Open liquor; cup-to-go prohibited. The licensee shall not knowingly
permit any person to leave his or her premises with open liquor or in a cup-to-
go.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-6)
   (C)   Liquor in vehicles; underage. The presence in a vehicle, other than a
public vehicle, of any alcoholic liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it
is in the possession of and is being carried by all persons occupying such
vehicle at the time of which such alcoholic liquor is found, except under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants
therein; or
      (2)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of
age.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-7)
Penalty, see §
115.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 115.085 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Entry powers. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner hereby is given
the power to enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Dramshop Act, 235 ILCS, or any rules or regulations adopted
by him or her or by the State Liquor Commission have been or are being violated
and, at such time, to examine the premises of said licensee in connection
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-13)
   (B)   Revocation of licenses. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
have the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to licenses
granted under this chapter:
      (1)   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties set out
for violations of specific provisions of this chapter, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for 30 days or revoke any liquor license issued under
this chapter for violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquors by any licensee or his or her agent, servant, or employee;
      (2)   To suspend or revoke any liquor license if the licensee makes any
false statement or misrepresentation in the application for a license;
      (3)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter, at any
time, upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or her or
by the State Commission have been or are being violated and, at such time, to
examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
      (4)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under
the General Not- For-Profit Corporation Act or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued
under that Act has violated this chapter by selling or offering for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license;
      (5)   To receive complaint from any citizen within his or her
jurisdiction that any of the provisions of this Act or any rules or regulations
adopted pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints in the manner hereinafter provided; and
      (6)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall also have the power to
levy fines in accordance with §
115.091(A).
(Prior Code, § 21-4-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS and 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 115.086 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him
or her and shall supply the Clerk, Treasurer, and Chief of Police a copy of the
same.
   (B)   Upon issuance or revocation of a license, the Mayor shall give written
notice to these same officers within 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 115.087 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the Chief of
Police, any police officer, or the Liquor Commissioner for the purpose of
making an inspection of such premises or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-27) Penalty, see §
115.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 115.088 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the Mayor having jurisdiction over the licensee. Such books and records need
not be maintained on the licensed premises, but must be maintained in the
state.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-10
§ 115.089 ABATEMENT.
   Every lot, parcel, or tract of land and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment, or place whatsoever,
together with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments, and machinery located
thereon, wherein there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic
liquor, or whereon or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed, or
allowed any alcoholic liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed
of, or, in any other manner, used in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as
provided by the laws of this state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-7
§ 115.090 COMPLAINT BY RESIDENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to
file a complaint with the Liquor Commissioner, stating that a licensee under
this chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter or any
amendments hereto or of any of the statutes of this state, enacted with
reference to the control of liquor.
      (2)   Such complaint shall be made in writing and shall be signed and
sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (B)   (1)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts, in detail, upon which
such belief is based.
      (2)   If the Liquor Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged, there is
reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for hearing
and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing
and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-7
§ 115.091 LIQUOR COMMISSIONER TO SUSPEND OR REVOKE LICENSE; APPEALS.
   (A)   Revocation or suspension of local license; notice and hearing. The
Liquor Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued by him or her if
he or she determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Act, any valid ordinance adopted by the municipality, or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the Liquor Commissioner or the
State Commission which is not inconsistent with law.
      (1)   Revocation and suspension: notice. However, no such license shall
be so revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be fined except after a public
hearing by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with a three-day written
notice to the licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public, and the Liquor
Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an
official record of the proceedings. If the Liquor Commissioner has reason to
believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed premises will
immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he or she may, upon the
issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without
notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven
days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period, except
that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business
or businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to
such other business or businesses.
      (2)   Hearing. The Liquor Commissioner shall, within five days after such
hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a
written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a copy of such order
within the five days upon the license. The findings of the Commissioner shall
be predicted upon competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-10)
   (B)   Appeals from order of Liquor Commissioner.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, any order or action of a Local
Liquor Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a
licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license, or refusing (for more than 30 days) to
grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may, within 20
days after notice of such order or action, be appealed by any resident of the
municipality under the jurisdiction of the Liquor Commissioner or any person
interested to the State Commission.
      (2)   In any case where a licensee appeals to the State Commission from
an order or action of the Liquor Commissioner having the effect of suspending
or revoking a license, denying a renewal application, or refusing to grant a
license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the licensed business
pending the decision of the State Commission and the expiration of the time
allowed for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is
filed, the licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until
the denial of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the
decision on rehearing.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5 and 235 ILCS 5/7-9
§ 115.092 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS; APPEALS.
   (A)   Subsequent violations in a year. In any case in which a licensee
appeals to the State Commission a suspension or revocation by a Local Liquor
Control Commissioner that is the second or subsequent such suspension or
revocation placed on that licensee within the preceding 12-month period, the
licensee shall consider the suspension or revocation to be in effect until a
reversal of the Liquor Commissioner’s action has been issued by the State
Commission and shall cease all activity otherwise authorized by the license.
The State Commission shall expedite, to the greatest extent possible, its
consideration of any appeal that is an appeal of a second or subsequent
suspension or revocation within the past 12-month period.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-12)
   (B)   Appeal limitations for subsequent violation. Any appeal of the
decision and findings of the Liquor Commissioner in §
115.037(A) shall be limited to a review of the official record of the
proceedings of said Liquor Commissioner. The official record shall be a
certified official record of the proceedings taken and prepared by a certified
court reporter or certified shorthand reporter. A copy of this record shall be
filed by the Liquor Commissioner within five days after notice of the filing of
such appeal is received by the municipality from State Commission.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the suspension, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
in any county or municipality may levy a fine on the licensee for such
violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for a first violation
within a 12-month period, $1,500 for a second violation within a 12-month
period, and $2,500 for a third or subsequent violation within a 12-month
period. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. Not more than $15,000 in fines under this section may be imposed
against any licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the Municipal
Treasury. (See Pub. Act No. 89-0063.)
(Prior Code, § 21-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS, AUTHORITY, AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, DECENCY, AND MORALS
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND ENVIRONMENT
      
134.   OFFENSES INVOLVING FINANCES
      
135.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
130.01   Meaning of words and phrases
   
130.02   Criminal Code adopted
§ 130.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this title, the words and phrases of the 720 ILCS 2-
1 through 2-11, 2-13 through 2-16, 2-19, and 2-20, as approved, adopted, and
amended, are hereby adopted by the city, as fully as if set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/13-2, 720 ILCS 2-1 through 2-11, 720 ILCS
2-13 through 2-16, 720 ILCS 2-19, and 720 ILCS 2-20
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Criminal Code, 720 ILCS, as passed, approved, and amended by the
State General Assembly, is hereby adopted by the city; the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city; provided,
however, the penalties, as provided by this code, shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2, 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, and 720 ILCS
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS, AUTHORITY, AND SAFETY
Section
Offenses Against Authority
   
131.01   Disturbing police officer
   
131.02   Impersonating police
   
131.03   Aid in escape
   
131.04   Resisting or interfering with officer
   
131.05   Refusing to aid
Offenses Against Safety; Weapons
   
131.20   Concealed weapons
   
131.21   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
   
131.22   Storage of explosives
   
131.23   Throwing rocks
   
131.24   Throwing objects from motor vehicles
OFFENSES AGAINST AUTHORITY
§ 131.01 DISTURBING POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall, by violent conduct, disturb any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties nor shall any person assault, strike, or fight
with any police officers in the discharge of his or her duties or permit such
conduct in or upon any house or premises in the city owned or possessed by him
or her or under his or her management and control.
   (B)   Abusive or vulgar language in the presence of an officer does not
constitute a crime unless the language is directed at the officer and provokes
a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
§ 131.02 IMPERSONATING POLICE.
   No person in the city shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the city or shall, without being duly authorized by the city,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of the
city officer or hinder, obstruct, resist, or otherwise interfere with any city
officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-5.1
§ 131.03 AID IN ESCAPE.
   (A)   Aid in escape. It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue or
shall abet or encourage the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of
any officer or other person legally having him or her in charge or shall molest
or interfere with any officer or other person so legally having him or her in
charge or shall, in any manner, aid, abet, or encourage the rescue or the
attempt to escape from any person legally committed thereto or shall supply or
attempt to supply any such person with any weapon or with any implement or
means whereby an escape might be affected or with any intoxicating liquors,
drugs, or other article(s) without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-10)
   (B)   Escapes. It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense
or in lawful custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-11)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-6(C) and 720 ILCS 5/31-7
§ 131.04 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH OFFICER.
   A person commits an offense when that person knowingly resists or obstructs
the performance of any authorized act of one known to the person to be a peace
officer within that peace officer’s official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-1
§ 131.05 REFUSING TO AID.
   A person who refuses or knowingly fails, upon command, to reasonably aid a
person known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-8
OFFENSES AGAINST SAFETY; WEAPONS
§ 131.20 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall, within the city, carry or wear under his or her
clothes or concealed about his or her person any pistol or hand gun, without
being the holder of a state concealed carry license.
   (B)   Additionally, no person shall, within the city, carry or wear under
his or her clothes or conceal about his or her person any sling-shot; cross
knuckles; knuckles of lead, brass, or other metal; switchblade, knife, or
razor; bowie knife, dirk knife, or dirk; dagger; or any other dangerous or
deadly weapon.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the officers or members of the Police
Department nor to any Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff or Constable of this state nor
to any United States Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.21 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow, or air gun in
the city or so that the bullet, arrow, missile, or projectile therefrom enters
the city without written permission from the Mayor, provided that this section
shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to discharge a
firearm in the performance of his or her duty nor to prevent any citizen from
discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or property nor
to prevent the discharge of bow and arrow by students upon school grounds while
under the direct and immediate supervision of teachers or other school
supervisory personnel.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.22 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite, and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess, or store at or in any place within the city any nitroglycerine,
dynamite, or giant powder or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess, or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the city in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
§ 131.23 THROWING ROCKS.
   No person in the city shall throw or cast any rock or stone or any other
missile upon or at any building, tree, or other public or private property or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley, or public place.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.24 THROWING OBJECTS FROM MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the police powers in 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, it shall be
unlawful for any person occupying or driving a motor vehicle, whether moving or
not, to shoot, throw, cast, launch, or drop any object, liquid, or substance at
any person, animal, or structure wherein the possibility of harm, injury, or
damage may occur as a result of these actions.
   (B)   The driver and/or all passengers shall be, upon conviction, fined in
accordance with the provisions of the city code and shall be liable for all
damage, injury, or harm caused by the activity.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, DECENCY, AND MORALS
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
132.02   Unlawful assembly
   
132.03   Assembling at public places and businesses
   
132.04   Disturbing peace
   
132.05   Disorderly conduct
   
132.06   Unlawful conduct in public ways
   
132.07   Begging
   
132.08   Funeral and memorial services
   
132.09   Halloween curfew
   
132.10   Public intoxication
   
132.11   Synthetic drugs
   
132.12   Drug paraphernalia
   
132.13   Obscenity
   
132.14   Registered sex offender regulations
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God, or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior or by any disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 132.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be illegal for persons to assemble unlawfully in the following
situations:
   (A)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
   (B)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for the
purpose of doing violence to the person or property of any one supposed to have
been guilty of a violation of the law or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/25-1 and 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 132.03 ASSEMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES AND BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Drive-in business. A DRIVE-IN BUSINESS, within the meaning of this
section, shall be deemed to be any business where meals, sandwiches, cold
drinks, beverages, ice cream, food, drink, or consumer services are served
directly to or are permitted to be consumed by patrons in or upon automobiles,
motorcycles, or other vehicles parked on the premises.
   (B)   Declared public places. For the purpose of preserving public peace,
health, and safety, the entire premises occupied by a drive-in business,
together with means of ingress or egress, are hereby declared to be a public
place.
      (1)   No person on the premises of a drive-in business shall race the
motor of any motor vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop any
motor vehicle, blow any horn of any motor vehicle, or cause to be made any loud
or unseemly noise, nuisance, or disturbance whereby the quiet and good order of
the premises or the neighborhood are disturbed.
      (2)   The following acts or conduct of any persons entering a drive-in
business or premises are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person found
guilty of any such acts shall be guilty of a violation of this section:
         (a)   Entering the premises of any drive-in business with any motor
vehicle of any description and parking such vehicle and leaving the premises
(thereby leaving such vehicle parked and unoccupied), without express consent
of the owner or operator of such business; in which event, such motor vehicle
shall be subject to a parking citation or may be impounded subject to the usual
impounding charges;
         (b)   Entering the premises in or upon a motor vehicle and using said
premises for cruising, racing as a shortcut to another street, or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully on said
premises;
         (c)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and
linger or loiter at any location on the premises of any drive-in business other
than in the building or in a legally parked motor vehicle; and
         (d)   For any person who, while on the premises of any drive-in
business, in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or abuse such person
or use any violently abusive language under circumstances reasonably calculated
to provoke a breach of the peace.
   (C)   Posting sign. It shall be the responsibility of the business operator
to post on the premises in a conspicuous location, one or more signs bearing
the following legend in letters at least two inches or more in height and
readable:
      “CRUISING IN OR CONGREGATING AND LOITERING OUTSIDE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
UNLAWFUL. NO UNOCCUPIED MOTOR VEHICLES MAY BE LEFT ON THE PREMISES WITHOUT THE
CONSENT OF THE OWNER.”
(Prior Code, § 27-4-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 132.04 DISTURBING PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace of any individual or private family or of
any lawful congregation within the city by any noise or amusement or by vulgar
or profane language or by any disorderly or unreasonable conduct.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 132.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmits, in any manner, to the Fire Department of any city, town, or
fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such fire
exists;
   (C)   Transmits, in any manner, to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive device of any nature is concealed in such a place
that its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive device is concealed in such a place;
   (D)   Transmits, in any manner, to any peace officer, public officer, or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed;
   (E)   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
   (F)   While acting as a collection agency, as defined in the Collection
Agency Act, or as an employee of such collection agency and while attempting to
collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which is
designed to harass, annoy, or intimidate the alleged debtor; or
   (G)   Transmits a false report to the Department of Children and Family
Services.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-1) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/26-1
§ 132.06 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the city without having obtained
permission, in writing, from the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-17) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-4
§ 132.08 FUNERAL AND MEMORIAL SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to violate any of the following provisions
of this section:
   (A)   Engaging in any loud protest of signing, chanting, whistling, or
yelling with or without noise amplification, including, but not limited to,
bullhorns, auto horns, and microphones within 300 feet of any entrance of a
facility being used for a funeral or memorial service at any time during the
period starting 30 minutes before any funeral or memorial service is scheduled
to begin and ending 30 minutes after the funeral or memorial service
terminates;
   (B)   Displaying any visual images that convey fighting words or actual or
veiled threats against any other person within 300 feet of any entrance of a
facility being used for a funeral or memorial service at any time during the
period starting 30 minutes before any funeral or memorial service is scheduled
to begin and ending 30 minutes after the funeral or memorial service
terminates;
   (C)   Blocking access to any facility being used for a funeral or memorial
service at any time during the period starting 30 minutes before any funeral or
memorial service is scheduled to begin and ending 30 minutes after the funeral
or memorial service terminates; or
   (D)   Ending in a directed protest march or picket at any public location
within 300 feet of any entrance of a facility being used for a funeral or
memorial service at any time during the period starting 30 minutes before any
funeral or memorial service is scheduled to begin and ending 30 minutes after
the funeral or memorial service terminates.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-32) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09 HALLOWEEN CURFEW.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in Halloween practice, commonly
called “trick or treat,” by calling at the homes or dwelling places within the
city, either masked or unmasked, except on a day designated by the City Council
and no later than 8:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-26) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 132.10 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   No person shall, in the city, be found in a state of intoxication or drunk
in any street or other public place or shall be found drunk lying or roving
about the streets, alleys, or sidewalks of this city or the private grounds of
any of the inhabitants thereof or being drunk, as aforesaid, shall disturb the
peace, order, and quiet of the city or the peace and quiet of the citizens
thereof by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent language, or
behavior or in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-16) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-53
§ 132.11 SYNTHETIC DRUGS.
   (A)   Sale, possession, or delivery of synthetic cocaine prohibited.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BATH SALTS. A substance that contains methylenedioxypyrovalerone
(MDPV) or contains a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI).
         CONSTRUCTIVE POSSESSION. May be inferred if the defendant has intent
and capacity to maintain control and dominion over the cocaine or substance
containing cocaine or drug paraphernalia.
         DELIVER or DELIVERY. Actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of
possession of synthetic cocaine or substance containing cocaine, with or
without consideration, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
         KNOWLEDGE. Knows, acts knowingly, or with knowledge:
            1.   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct
described by the section defining the offense when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances
exist; KNOWLEDGE of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that such fact exists;
            2.   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section
defining the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that such result is
likely to be caused by his or her conduct; and
            3.   KNOWLEDGE may be inferred from the surrounding circumstances.
         SYNTHETIC COCAINE, BATH SALTS, or SUBSTANCES CONTAINING COCAINE.
Includes, but not limited to, the names, MDPK, Magic, Super Coke, PV, Ivory
Wave, Ocean, Cloud Nine, Charge Plus, White lightning, Scarface, Hurricane,
Charlie Red Dove, and White Dove. It is an herbal and chemical product which
mimics the effects of cocaine, including, but not limited to,
Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (a psychoactive drug) or cathinone derivatives.
         MANUFACTURE. The production, preparation, propagation, compounding,
conversion, or processing of synthetic cocaine or a substance containing
cocaine, either directly or indirectly, by extraction from substances of
natural origin or independently by means of chemical synthesis and includes any
packaging or repackaging of synthetic cocaine or a substance containing cocaine
or labeling of its container, except that this term does not include the
preparation, compounding, packaging, or labeling of synthetic cocaine as an
incident to lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale.
         PERSON. Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, association, or any other entity.
         POSSESSION. Possession may be either actual or constructive; ACTUAL
POSSESSION means exercising physical dominion.
      (2)   Possession of synthetic cocaine or substance containing cocaine or
bath salts prohibited.
         (a)   Violation. No person shall possess any substance containing
synthetic cocaine or a substance containing cocaine.
         (b)   Forfeiture. Any items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant
to 720 ILCS 550/12 may be forfeited in the same manner as described therein for
a violation of this division (A).
         (c)   Exception. Any person who manufactures, distributes, dispenses,
or is in possession of any controlled substance or synthetic cocaine for
research purposes shall be exempt from the provisions of this division (A).
(Prior Code, § 27-14-1)
   (B)   Sale, possession, or delivery of synthetic cannabis prohibited.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DELIVER or DELIVERY. Actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of
possession of synthetic cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not
there is an agency relationship.
         KNOWLEDGE. Knows, acts knowingly, or with knowledge:
            (a)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense; when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances
exist, KNOWLEDGE of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that such fact exists;
            (b)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section
defining the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that such result is
likely to be caused by his or her conduct; and
            (c)   KNOWLEDGE may be inferred from the surrounding circumstances.
         MANUFACTURE. The production, preparation, propagation, compounding,
conversion, or processing of synthetic cannabis, either directly or indirectly,
by extraction from substances of natural origin or independently by means of
chemical synthesis and includes any packaging or repackaging of synthetic
cannabis or labeling of its container, except that this term does not include
the preparation, compounding, packaging, or labeling of synthetic cannabis as
an incident to lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for
sale.
         PERSON. Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, or association or any other entity.
         POSSESSION. May be either actual or constructive.
            1.   ACTUAL POSSESSION means exercising physical dominion; and
            2.   CONSTRUCTIVE POSSESSION may be inferred if the defendant has
intent and capacity to maintain control and dominion over the cannabis or drug
paraphernalia.
         PRODUCE or PRODUCTION. Planting, cultivating, tending, or harvesting.
         SYNTHETIC CANNABIS. Includes the brand names K2 and Spice. It is an
herbal and chemical product which mimics the effects of cannabis, including,
but not limited to, synthetic cannabinoids, cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH-
073, and HU-210.
      (2)   Possession of synthetic cannabis prohibited.
         (a)   Violation. No person shall possess any substance containing
synthetic cannabis.
         (b)   Forfeiture. Any items which may be seized or forfeited, pursuant
to 720 ILCS 550/12, may be forfeited in the same manner as described therein
for a violation of this division (B).
         (c)   Exception. Any person who manufactures, distributes, dispenses,
or is in possession of any controlled substance or synthetic cannabis for
research purposes, pursuant to 720 ILCS 550/11, as hereafter amended, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 27-14-2)
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 550/11 and 720 ILCS 550/12
§ 132.12 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CANNABIS. Shall have the meaning ascribed it in § 3 of the State Cannabis
Control Act as if that definition were incorporated herein.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the meaning ascribed to it in § 102 of the
State Controlled Substance Act, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind
which are peculiar to and/or marketed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation
of the Cannabis Control Act or the State Controlled Substances Act. It includes
but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits peculiar to and/or marketed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (b)   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use
in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
         (d)   Diluents and adulterant peculiar to and marketed for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
         (e)   Objects peculiar to and/or marketed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body including, where applicable, the following items:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion   masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes;
            8.   Chillums;
            9.   Bongs;
            10.   Ice pipes or chillers; and
(Prior Code, § 27-16-1)
   (B)   Possession of cannabis or controlled substance. It shall be unlawful
for any person to use, possess, distribute, or deliver any cannabis or
controlled substance, as defined in this section.
(Prior Code, § 27-16-2)
   (C)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. A person who knowingly possesses an
item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body or
in preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use is guilty of a
violation of this section. In determining intent under division (C)(1) above,
the trier of fact may take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or
a controlled substance on the drug paraphernalia.
(Prior Code, § 27-16-3)
   (D)   Exemptions. Exemptions to this section include:
      (1)   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale;
      (2)   Items marketed for or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
Items exempt under this section include, but are not limited to, garden hoes,
rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette-rolling papers;
      (3)   Items listed in division (A) above which are marketed for
decorative purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable
or incapable of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by this section;
and
      (4)   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under
this division (D), the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
         (a)   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the
item involved has been put;
         (b)   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
         (c)   Any written instruction accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
         (d)   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
         (e)   Any national or local advertising concerning the design,
purpose, or use of the item involved and the entire context in which such
advertising occurs;
         (f)   The manner, place, and circumstances in which the items was
displayed for sale as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise
exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
         (g)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products; and
         (h)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
(Prior Code, § 27-16-4)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.13 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Obscenity.
      (1)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an obscenity offense
when, with the knowledge of the nature or content thereof or recklessly failing
to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or
content thereof, he or she:
         (a)   Sells, delivers, or provides or offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other
representation or embodiment of the obscene;
         (b)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance, or other performance
or participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
         (c)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything
obscene;
         (d)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene
exhibition of his or her body for gain;
         (e)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section or of the penal laws
or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
         (f)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material
represented or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is
obscene.
      (2)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is obscene if:
         (a)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
         (b)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts (whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated) or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
         (c)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
      (3)   Interpretation of evidence. Obscenity shall be judged with
reference to ordinary adults except that it shall be judged with reference to
children or other specially susceptible audiences if it appears from the
character of the material or the circumstances of its dissemination to be
specially designed for or directed to such an audience.
         (a)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
         (b)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
            1.   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
            2.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
            3.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other
merits of the material or the absence thereof;
            4.   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in
this state;
            5.   Appeal to prurient interest or absence thereof in advertising
or other promotion of the material; and
            6.   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
      (4)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement, or
possession of a mold, engraved plat, or other embodiment or obscenity,
specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies or the possession of more
than three copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an
intent to disseminate.
(Prior Code, § 27-12-1)
   (B)   Tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributors. Any person,
firm, or corporation, or any agent, officer, or employee thereof engaged in the
business of distributing books, magazines, periodicals, comic books, or other
publications to retail dealers who shall refuse to furnish to any retail dealer
such quantity of books, magazines, periodicals, comic books, or other
publications as such retail dealer normally sells because the retail dealer
refuses to sell or offer for sale, any books, magazines, periodicals, comic
books, or other publications which are obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or
indecent is guilty of an offense. Each publication sold or delivered in
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-12-3)
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-51 and 720 ILCS 5/11-22
§ 132.14 REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD SEX OFFENDER. Includes any person required to register his or her
residence address with any state or with the federal government as a result of
his or her conviction as a sex offender, where the victim of that sex offense
was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense. A CHILD SEX OFFENDER
includes, but is not limited to, any person required to register under the
State Sex Offender Registration Act, 730 ILCS 150/1 et seq., as now or as
hereafter amended, where the victim was under the age of 18 years at the time
of the offense. A CHILD SEX OFFENDER further includes, but is not limited to,
any person who has been convicted of any of the following statutory offenses or
convicted of attempting to commit any of the following statutory offenses, as
now or hereafter amended, involving a victim under the age of 18 years:
         (a)   Sexual exploitation of a child (720 ILCS 5/11-9.1);
         (b)   Predatory criminal sexual assault of a child (720 ILCS 5/12-
14.1);
         (c)   Indecent solicitation of a child (720 ILCS 5/11-6);
         (d)   Public indecency committed on school property (720 ILCS 5/119);
         (e)   Child luring (720 ILCS 5/10-5(b)(10));
         (f)   Aiding and abetting child abduction (720 ILCS 5/10-7 or 720 ILCS
5/10-(b)(10));
         (g)   Soliciting for a juvenile prostitute (720 ILCS 5/11-15.1);
         (h)   Patronizing a juvenile prostitute (720 ILCS 5/11-18.1);
         (i)   Exploitation of a child (720 ILCS 5/11-19.2);
         (j)   Child pornography (720 ILCS 5/11-20.1);
         (k)   Criminal sexual assault (720 ILCS 5/12-13);
         (l)   Aggravated criminal sexual assault (720 ILCS 5/12-14);
         (m)   Aggravated criminal sexual abuse (720 ILCS 5/12-16);
         (n)   Kidnapping or aggravated kidnapping (720 ILCS 5/10-1 or 720 ILCS
5/10-2); and
         (o)   Unlawful restraint or aggravated unlawful restraint (720 ILCS 5/
10-3 or 5/10-3.1).
   LOITER. Standing or sitting idly, whether or not the person is in a vehicle,
or remaining in or around property that is from time to time frequented by
persons under the age of 18 years.
   PARK. Any playground, walking track, athletic field, gymnasium, basketball
court, baseball diamond, or other real estate owned or controlled by a school
or unit of a local government that is designated primarily for recreation. The
term PARK shall also include any privately owned recreational area upon which
the city has been authorized by its owner to patrol and enforce the ordinances
contained in this chapter. The term PARK shall also include ancillary restrooms
and vehicle parking lots designated for use primarily by park patrons or school
students and their families.
   SCHOOL. Any real property used primarily for educational or childcare
purposes, including, but not limited to, elementary schools, middle schools,
high schools, dance studios, licensed child daycare facilities, and pre-
schools.
(Prior Code, § 27-15-1)
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a child sex offender to reside within 1,500 feet
of any of the following:
         (a)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons
under the age of 18 years; or
         (b)   The real property comprising any park.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any child sex offender to loiter on any public
property, public right-of-way, or area designated for parking of motor vehicles
within 1,500 feet of any of the following, unless the person loitering is with
a child under the age of 18 years and the person loitering is a parent, step-
parent, aunt, uncle, cousin, sibling, or step-sibling of that child under the
age of 18 years:
         (a)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons
under the age of 18 years; or
         (b)   The real property comprising any park.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person, corporation, business, partnership,
trust, manager, or other entity to employ a sex offender within 1,500 feet of
any festival or other event which is open to the public.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person, corporation, business, partnership,
trust, manager, or other entity to enter into a lease agreement or to renew any
lease agreement letting residential real estate to a child sex offender where
the lot line of the residential property is within 1,500 feet of any of the
following:
         (a)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons
under the age of 18 years; or
         (b)   The real property comprising any park.
(Prior Code, § 27-15-2)
   (C)   Other provisions.
      (1)   In the event a court of competent jurisdiction should declare the
terms of any portion of this section invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of
this section shall remain in full force and effect.
      (2)   All distances designated in this section shall be measured from the
lot line of the park property or school property and from the lot line of the
subject residence.
      (3)   Nothing in this section prohibits a child sex offender from
residing within 1,500 feet of any property, if that residence is owned or
leased by the child sex offender before the effective date of this section.
This section is intended to apply to and prevent such new residential lease
agreements and renewals of expired residential leases entered into after the
effective date of this section.
(Prior Code, § 27-15-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-9.1, 720 ILCS 5/10-(b)(10), 720 ILCS
5/10-1, 720 ILCS 5/10-2, 720 ILCS 5/10-3, 720 ILCS 5/10-3.1, 720 ILCS 5/10-5(b)
(10), 720 ILCS 5/10-7, 720 ILCS 5/11-6, 720 ILCS 5/11-18.1, 720 ILCS 5/11-19.2,
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1, 720 ILCS 5/12-13, 720 ILCS 5/12-14, 720 5/12-14.1, 720 ILCS
5/12-16, 720 ILCS 5/119, 730 ILCS 150/1 et seq.
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a
court of law of a violation of §
132.11(A) shall be punished by a minimum fine of not less than $250 and no more
than $750.
      (2)   Administrative fee. In addition, any person who violates any
provision of §
132.11(A) and is convicted, pleads guilty, or receives court supervision or
probation by a court of law shall be ordered to pay an administrative fee of
$100 to be paid to the law enforcement agency for testing of the substance(s)
collected.
(Prior Code, § 27-14-1)
   (C)   (1)   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a
court of law of a violation of §
132.11(B) shall be punished by a minimum fine of not less than $250 and no more
than $750.
      (2)   Administrative fee. In addition, any person who violates any
provision of §
132.11(B) and is convicted, pleads guilty, or receives court supervision or
probation by a court of law shall be ordered to pay an administrative fee of
$100 to be paid to the law enforcement agency for testing of the substance(s)
collected.
(Prior Code, § 27-14-2)
   (D)   Any person or entity violating §
132.12 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $750 plus court costs.
(Prior Code, § 27-16-5)
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating §
132.14(B)(1) or (B)(2) shall be subject to a fine between $100 and $750, with
each day a violation continues constituting a separate offense. Any person,
corporation, business, partnership, trust, manager, or other entity guilty of
violating §
132.14(B)(3) or (B)(4) shall be subject to a fine between $100 and $750,
revocation of business license, or both. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Any person, corporation, business, partnership,
trust, manager, or other entity violating §
132.14(B)(3) or (B)(4) shall be presumed to have had knowledge of the
employee’s or tenant’s status as a child sex offender, where the employee’s or
tenant’s name, photo, or other identifying information appears on the State
Police’s Statewide Sex Offender Database, as published on the internet on the
State Police’s World Wide Web home page per the Sex Offender and Child Murderer
Community Notification Law, 730 ILCS 152/101 et seq., as now or hereafter
amended.
(Prior Code, § 27-15-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 730 ILCS 152/101 et seq.
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Renting premises for unlawful purpose
   
133.02   Posting bills
   
133.03   Games or activities in streets
   
133.04   Destruction of public property
   
133.05   Criminal damage to property
   
133.06   Tampering with public notice
   
133.07   Theft of recyclables
   
133.08   Depositing of snow and ice restricted
   
133.09   Protective covering or fencing
   
133.10   Upholstered furniture in outdoor locations
   
133.11   Trespassing prohibited
   
133.12   Abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes
Anti-Litter Policy
   
133.25   Definitions
   
133.26   Littering prohibited
   
133.27   Prevention of scattering
   
133.28   Tampering with receptacles
   
133.29   Owner to maintain private premises
   
133.30   Littering from vehicles or aircrafts
   
133.31   Litter in parks
   
133.32   Handbills; notices
   
133.33   Construction sites
   
133.34   Loading and unloading docks
   
133.35   Parking lots
 
   
133.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use, or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him or her for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print, or nail
any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind on any
curbstone, flagstone, or any other portion or part of any sidewalk or upon any
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door, or gate
without the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door, or gate;
provided, however, this section shall not prevent posting by proper city and
county officials of election signs, polling place signs, and other signs or
placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except they may
not be attached to a tree.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 GAMES OR ACTIVITIES IN STREETS.
   No person shall, upon any city street, fly any kite or play any game of ball
or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or annoy any
person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-20) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Destruction of public property. No person in the city shall deface,
destroy, or, in any way, injure any public property or any other apparatus of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-23)
   (B)   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants, or equipment. No
person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with, or
destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine or other
public or private firefighting equipment or any apparatus appertaining to such
equipment or to intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper
authorization. (See 720 ILCS 5/21-1.1.)
(Prior Code, § 27-3-3)
   (C)   Injury to utility wires and poles. It shall be unlawful to willfully,
maliciously, or negligently break, deface, injure, or destroy any telegraph or
telephone pole, post, or wire or any electric lightpost, pole, or electric
conductor, wire, or lamp or any other thing connected with the same or
belonging thereto or any water main, gas main, pipe, or hydrant or lamp or
lamppost or anything belonging to or connected therewith or with any of them.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-4)
   (D)   Damage or destruction of street signs prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person, in any manner or form, to deface, disfigure, damage, or destroy
any of the street signs or parts thereof located in the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-5)
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1.1
§ 133.05 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this section:
   (A)   To knowingly damage any property of another without his or her
consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and,
thereby, intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1
§ 133.06 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to, knowingly and without lawful
authority, alter, destroy, deface, remove, or conceal any public notice posted
according to law during the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-9
§ 133.07 THEFT OF RECYCLABLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess, or pickup
any recyclable item(s) from any receptacle or collection point where service is
provided by an authorized waste hauler licensed by the municipality or from any
specified recycling center within the city limits unless said person is acting
as an agent for the city or acting as an agent for a waste hauler licensed by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-27) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 DEPOSITING OF SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and ice on or
against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, roadway, or loading or unloading
areas of a public transportation system, except that snow and ice may be
windrowed on curbs incident to the cleaning of sidewalks in business districts.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-29) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 133.09 PROTECTIVE COVERING OR FENCING.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, corporation, or partnership which either owns or
maintains or uses or abandons any open well, cesspool, cistern, quarry,
recharging basin, catch basin, sump, excavation for the erection of any
building structure, or excavation created by the razing or removal of any
building structure without covering or surrounding such installation with
protective fencing is guilty of a violation of §
10.99.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not apply during the
course of repair, construction, removal, or filling of any of the structures or
conditions herein described while any worker is present at the location thereof
either performing services thereon or as a watchman to guard such location.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-30)
   (B)   Incorporation by reference. The Private Swimming Pool Enclosure Act,
as enacted by the General Assembly, be and the same is hereby incorporated by
reference.
      (1)   Definitions. As used in this division (B), SWIMMING POOL means an
outdoor artificial basin of water that is constructed, modified, improved, or
installed in or above the ground of private residential property for the
purpose of swimming or wading and that has a depth of more than 24 inches,
covering more than 25 square feet, or that has a capacity of more than 200
gallons of water. The term includes only swimming pools intended for the use of
the owner and guests and does not include swimming pools subject to the
Swimming Pool and Bathing Beach Act or the Swimming Pool Safety Act. The term
does not include above-ground pools with a height of 42 or more inches and does
not include Jacuzzis.
      (2)   Barrier required. A protective fence, wall, or other effective,
permanent barrier shall completely enclose the perimeter of a swimming pool,
the construction or installation of which is completed on or after the
effective date of this Act. The fence, wall, or other barrier shall be at least
42 inches in height.
(Ord. 24-05, passed 12-11-2023)
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 605/1
§ 133.10 UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE IN OUTDOOR LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Upholstered or other furniture designed or manufactured primarily for
indoor use shall not be used or allowed to remain:
      (1)   On unenclosed exterior porches or balconies; and
      (2)   In an open area on private property exposed to outdoor weather
conditions.
   (B)   It shall not be a defense to said prohibition that such furniture is
covered by plastic cover or other tarpaulin, canvas, or sheeting.
   (C)   This prohibition shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Wood, metal, or plastic furniture;
      (2)   Outdoor patio furniture with weather-resistant cushions; and
      (3)   Upholstered furniture designated for prepaid special pickup or
delivery by public or private hauler, provided that such remain outdoors for a
period not to exceed 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-33) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-15
§ 133.11 TRESPASSING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Trespasses prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to commit a trespass within this municipality upon either public or
private property.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-1)
   (B)   Specifically enumerated trespasses - suppression. Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of division (A) above, any of the following
acts by any person, firm, or corporation shall be deemed included among those
that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of division (A)
above, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time or from time
to time to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this section; the
aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises of another or any part thereof,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning, or protest, given orally or in writing, by
any owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry or in violation of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to leave any such vehicle,
aircraft, or watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having
such right.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-2)
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 133.12 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR ICEBOXES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest of a capacity of
one and one-half cubic feet or more which has an attached lid or door which may
be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch.
   (B)   The owner, lessee, or manager of such place, who knowingly permits
such abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest to remain there
in such condition shall be guilty of violating this section.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-25) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 505/1
ANTI-LITTER POLICY
§ 133.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include
helicopters and lighter-than-air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.
      (1)   A container of watertight construction with a tight-fitting lid or
cover capable of preventing the escape of contents within.
      (2)   Such receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by the United States mail service, including,
but not limited to, those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety, and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping, and transporting goods, wares,
commodities, and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river, or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building, or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional, or religious purposes together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule,
mailbox, and other structure(s) appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses, or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the city.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-1)
§ 133.26 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Littering prohibited. No person shall deposit any litter within the
city, except in public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for
collection, or in any duly licensed disposal facility.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-2)
   (B)   Sidewalks and alleys free from litter. Persons owning, occupying, or
in control of any public place or private premises shall keep the sidewalks and
alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-5)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.27 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-3)
§ 133.28 TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.29 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-6)
§ 133.30 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES OR AIRCRAFTS.
   (A)   Littering from vehicles.
      (1)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
      (2)   (a)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded
truck or other vehicle within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed or
so loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents, or litter from being
blown or deposited upon any public place or private premises.
         (b)   Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within
the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any public
place or private premises, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign
matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-7)
   (B)   Littering from aircraft. No person in an aircraft shall throw out,
drop, or deposit any litter within the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-8)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.31 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the city except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-9) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.32 HANDBILLS; NOTICES.
   (A)   Handbills.
      (1)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or
upon any public place; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful on any
public place for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
      (2)   Private premises.
         (a)   No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any handbill in
or upon private premises or vehicles, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the occupant of such private premises.
         (b)   Provided, however, in case of private premises or vehicles which
are not posted against the receiving of handbills or similar material, such
person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, may
securely place any such handbill in such a manner as to prevent such handbill
from being deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private
premises, except mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal
law or regulations.
      (3)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions
of this division (A) shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises
only of newspapers or political literature; except, newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
      (4)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill
in or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of the vehicle is willing to accept
it.
      (5)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said handbill distribution.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-10)
   (B)   Posting notices prohibited. No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster, or other paper or device calculated to attract the attention of the
public upon any public place, except as may be authorized or required by law.
No person, except the owner or tenant, shall post any such notice on private
property without the permission of the owner or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-11)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.33 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private premises
shall be removed by the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-12) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.34 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating, or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-13) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.35 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. Such premises shall include, but
not be limited to, such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots,
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide,
in an easily accessible location, a minimum of one refuse container for every
50 parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight-fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition, and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as hereinabove
provided for the purposes intended, and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-14) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 and 415 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
133.09(B) shall be subject to an initial fine of not less than $100 and not
more than $750.
(Ord. 24-05, passed 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES INVOLVING FINANCES
Section
   
134.01   Avoiding payment of admission fees
   
134.02   False pretenses
   
134.03   Fortunetelling for payment
   
134.04   Petty theft
§ 134.01 AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares,
or merchandise under false pretenses or to enter public places and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same or to
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares, and/or merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 FORTUNETELLING FOR PAYMENT.
   No person in the city shall pursue the calling of a fortuneteller or
practice fortunetelling, soothsaying, or the like and receive payment in any
manner therefor.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under
$300 and he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
      (2)   Obtains, by deception, control over property of the owner;
      (3)   Obtains, by threat, control over property of the owner;
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him or her to believe that the property was stolen;
      (5)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (6)   Knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the property in such a manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; and/or
      (7)   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment, or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-1
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
135.01   Parental responsibilities
   
135.02   Sale of tobacco products
   
135.03   Harmful materials to minors
Truancy and Curfew Regulations
   
135.15   Definitions
   
135.16   Curfew hours
   
135.17   Curfew restrictions
   
135.18   Truancy restrictions
   
135.19   Establishment restrictions
   
135.20   Enforcement restrictions
   
135.21   Civil liability
 
   
135.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 135.01 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACTS OF VANDALISM AND SIMILAR OFFENSES. Include any of the following
acts:
         (a)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently, or knowingly damaging or
destroying or defacing any property within the city, whether such property is
owned by the state, county, or governmental body or owned by any private
person, firm, partnership, or association;
         (b)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly, by means of fire or
explosive device, damaging, debasing, or destroying any property of another
person;
         (c)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently, or knowingly starting a
fire on land of another person without his or her consent;
         (d)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly depositing on land or in
the building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb or
any offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the use and
occupancy by another of the land or building; or
         (e)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly and without authority
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft or any part thereof of another person without
his or her consent.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. Includes a foster parent, a person appointed guardian of
a person or given custody of a minor by a Circuit Court of this state, but does
not include a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor or
appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the State Juvenile Court
Act.
      MINOR. A person who is above the age of seven years but not yet 18 years
of age.
      PARENT. The lawful father and mother of a minor child, whether by birth
or adoption.
      PROPERTY. Any real estate including improvements thereon and tangible
personal property.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-1)
   (B)   Parents and guardians responsible for acts. The parent or legal
guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian
shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed
to exercise proper parental responsibility, and said minor shall be deemed to
have committed the acts described herein with the knowledge and permission of
the parent or guardian in violation of this chapter upon the occurrence of the
events described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) below.
      (1)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law, or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation of any ordinance,
law, or statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a
person or property.
      (2)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified mail (return receipt requested) or by personal
service (with a certificate of personal service returned from the city)
following said adjudication or non-judicial sanctions.
      (3)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of notice set
forth in division (B)(2) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in
violation of any ordinance, law, or statute, as described in division (B)(1)
above, or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law,
or statute, as described in division (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 740 ILCS 5/21-1.2 et seq., 740 ILCS 115/1 et seq.,
and 740 ILCS 115/4
§ 135.02 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Sale of cigarettes or tobacco to minors.
      (1)   No minor under 18 years of age shall buy any cigar, cigarette,
smokeless tobacco, or tobacco in any of its forms. No person shall sell, buy
for, distribute samples of, or furnish any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco,
or tobacco in any of its forms to any minor under 18 years of age.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, smokeless tobacco is defined in §
132.06(A).
      (3)   Tobacco products listed in division (A)(1) above may be sold
through a vending machine only in the following locations:
         (a)   Factories, businesses, office, private clubs, and other places
not open to the general public;
         (b)   Places to which minors under 18 years of age are not permitted
access;
         (c)   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises;
         (d)   1.   Places where the vending machine is under the direct
supervision of the owner of the establishment or an employee over 18 years of
age. The sale of tobacco products from a vending machine under direct
supervision of the owner or an employee of the establishment is considered a
sale of tobacco products by the person.
            2.   As used in this division (A), DIRECT SUPERVISION means the
owner or employee has an unimpeded line of sight to the vending machine; and
         (e)   Places where the vending machine can only be operated by the
owner or an employee over age 18 either directly or through a remote control
device, if the device is inaccessible to all customers.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-7)
   (B)   Smokeless tobacco.
      (1)   Definition. For the purposes of this division (B), the term
SMOKELESS TOBACCO means any finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf tobacco that
is intended to be placed in the oral cavity.
      (2)   Sales of smokeless tobacco products to persons under 18. No person
shall sell any smokeless tobacco product to any person under the age of 18.
      (3)   Distribution. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed
to any person under the age of 18, without charge or at a nominal cost, any
smokeless tobacco product.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-8)
Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 675/1 and 720 ILCS 680-1 et seq.
§ 135.03 HARMFUL MATERIALS TO MINORS.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person who, with knowledge that a person is
a CHILD (a person under 18 years of age) or who fails to exercise reasonable
care in ascertaining the true age of a child, knowingly distributes to or sends
or causes to be sent to or exhibits to or offers to distribute or exhibit any
harmful material to a child is guilty of a violation of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HARMFUL MATERIAL. To the average person, applying contemporary standards,
its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to PRURIENT INTEREST (that is,
shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion which goes
substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matters and is material, the redeeming social importance
of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal).
       MATERIAL. As used in this section, means any writing, picture, record,
or other representation or embodiment.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of material whether with or without
consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. As used in this section, means having knowledge of the
contents of the subject matter or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the contents thereof.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom such material was offered, distributed, sent, or exhibited,
unless it appears, from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution, or exhibition, that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups; in which case, the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is, in fact, substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age, provided such
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose, and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government or any state, county, or municipal government or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material, as defined in
this section, culminates in the sale or distribution of such harmful material
to a child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant or his or her employees or agents as where the order or
request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, or
similar means of communication and delivery of such harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, or similar means of transport, it shall be a
defense in any prosecution for a violation of this section that the
advertisement contained the following statement or a statement substantially
similar thereto and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that
he or she was not under the age of 18 years and that the purchaser falsely
stated that he or she was not under the age of 18 years:
 
NOTICE
It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to purchase the matter
herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely states that he
or she is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of obtaining the material
advertised herein is guilty of a misdemeanor.
 
   (E)   Child falsifying age. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely
states, either orally or in writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18
years or who presents or offers to any person any evidence of age and identity
which is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
obtaining, viewing, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any
harmful material is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 27-12-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1
TRUANCY AND CURFEW REGULATIONS
§ 135.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY CURFEW HOURS. The period of time specified in §
135.16.
   COURT. The First Judicial Circuit; Williamson County, Illinois.
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the custodian of the person of
a minor;
      (2)   A public or private agency with which the court has placed a minor;
or
      (3)   A person acting in the role of a parent by reason of a private
agreement, arrangement, custom, or habit.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to,
fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, medical emergency, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business to which the public is
invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or
entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   Parent;
      (2)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (3)   A public or private agency with which the court has placed a minor.
   MINOR. A person under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of
another person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
public ways, sidewalks, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment
houses, office buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person at least 18 years of age, authorized by a
parent, guardian, or custodian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   TRUANCY CURFEW HOURS. The period of the day when the school the minor would
normally attend is in session on days when the school the minor would normally
attend is in session.
   TRUANT OFFICER. Any officer, appointee, employee, or other agency of any
school district or any federal, state, or local government, entity, or any
agency thereof performing the duties of a truant officer under the State
Compulsory Attendance Statute (105 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.).
   TRUANCY REVIEW BOARD. Any agency or entity established by any school
district or any federal, state, or local governmental entity or any counseling
or social agency or any combination thereof recognized by the city and/or the
court as an agency which provides service to improve education performance and/
or attendance.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 105 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.
§ 135.16 CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   On any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday: 10:00
p.m. until 6:00 a.m. of the following day;
         (b)   On Saturday: 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m.; and
         (c)   On Sunday: 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m.
      EMERGENCY.
         (1)   An unforeseen combination circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action.
         (2)   The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural
disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation that requires immediate
action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 21 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death; serious, permanent disfigurement; or protracted
loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or, by insufficient control, allows the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) above that the
minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civil organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city; a civic organization; or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation or Mature Minors Act, as amended.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (C) above is present.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-31) (Ord. 02-09, passed 8-12-2002) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5 and 720 ILCS 555/1
§ 135.17 CURFEW RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor to be present in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit or, by insufficient control to, allow the minor to be present
in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city
during curfew hours.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
135.17(A) or (B) or 135.19 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian, custodian, or
responsible adult;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent, guardian,
custodian, or responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel with the consent
or authorization of a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (4)   Engaged in, going to, or returning home from an employment activity
without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence;
      (7)   Engaged in, going to, or returning home from official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults, sponsored by a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution; or
      (9)   Emancipated pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-2) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.18 TRUANCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor who is subject to compulsory education or
to compulsory continuation education by statute or court order to be present in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
truancy curfew hours.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, custodian, or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit or, by insufficient control, to allow the minor to be present
in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city
during truancy curfew hours.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section or §
135.19 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or responsible adult
if engaged in an activity which would constitute an excused absence from the
school from which the minor would normally attend;
      (2)   Involved in an emergency;
      (3)   Going to or returning from a medical appointment without any detour
or stop;
      (4)   Engaged in, going to, or returning home from an employment activity
pursuant to a cooperative school vocation program without any detour or stop;
      (5)   In possession of valid proof that the minor is a student who has
permission to leave the school campus;
      (6)   A bona fide participant in an alternative education or home
schooling program; and/or
      (7)   Engaged in or subject to an authorized or excused absence from the
school which the minor attends, including, but not limited to, lunch periods.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-3) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.19 ESTABLISHMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or any employee of an
establishment to allow a minor to be present or to remain upon the premises of
the establishment in violation of §§
135.17 and
135.18 during curfew or truancy hours.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if the owner,
operator, or employee of the establishment, immediately upon discovery of a
minor reasonably believed to be in violation of §§
135.17 and
135.18, notified a law enforcement agency that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew or truancy hours and refused to
leave the establishment after being advised to do so by the owner, operator, or
employee.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-4) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.20 ENFORCEMENT RESTRICTIONS.
    Every member of the Police Department, while on duty, is hereby authorized
as follows.
      (A)   For the first offense of any minor violating the provisions of this
subchapter, officers shall have authority to issue to the minor a citation, in
writing, in the same form as described in division (C) below. For a second
offense, the law enforcement officer is authorized to temporarily detain any
minor violating the provisions of this subchapter (regardless of whether a
citation is immediately issued) until the parent, custodian, or guardian of the
minor shall take him or her into custody, but such officer shall, immediately
upon taking custody of the minor, reasonably attempt to communicate with the
parent, custodian, or guardian of the minor, unless division (E) below is
applicable. A parent, custodian, or guardian must take custody of the minor
within one hour of the time of notice or be subject to a charge of $25 per hour
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer or truant officer witnesses or has knowledge
based on reasonable grounds of a violation of this subchapter by any person,
such person may be issued a citation. A citation or complaint may be made to a
police officer or truant officer by any person.
   (C)   (1)   A citation issued hereunder this shall be in writing and shall:
         (a)   State the name of the person being cited and the person’s
address, if known;
         (b)   Set forth the specific section of this subchapter that was
violated, the date of the violation, and a brief description of the violation;
and
         (c)   Be signed by the issuing police officer, truant officer, or
complaining party.
      (2)   In each instance where a citation is issued to a minor for
violation of this subchapter, a minor’s parent, custodian, or guardian shall be
provided a copy of the citation notifying the parent, custodian, or guardian of
the charge made against the minor.
   (D)   A minor cited for a citation under this subchapter must attend a court
hearing or Truancy Review Board hearing on the citation and must be accompanied
at the hearing by his or her parent, custodian, guardian, or other adult person
having the legal care and custody of the minor. If any such person fails to
attend any court hearing with the minor and unless the interest of justice
would otherwise be served, the court may continue the hearing and shall issue a
notice or a rule to show cause to the person directing that said person to
appear at the continued hearing with the minor. Failure of the person to
thereafter appear shall subject said person to sanctions for contempt of court
as determined by the court.
   (E)   Every member of the Police Department, while on duty, is hereby
authorized to temporarily detain any minor violating the provisions of §
135.18, regardless of whether a citation is issued, and to deliver and
surrender the minor to the lawful authorities of the school that the minor
would normally attend.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-5)
§ 135.21 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   If a minor is detained for a period of time in excess of one hour which
requires the supervision of the minor by personnel of the Police Department,
the parent, custodian, guardian, or other adult having legal care or custody of
the minor shall be jointly and severally liable for the costs therefor. The
parent, custodian, guardian, or other adult having legal care or custody of the
minor who has committed any offense of this subchapter shall be assessed and
billed for the costs; the costs shall be recoverable in any action enforcing
any provision of this subchapter or in a separate civil action. In addition,
the failure to pay the costs shall constitute a violation of this subchapter
and subject the violator to the penalties described within §
135.99. In the event any action is filed, the liable party shall be responsible
for all court costs and any reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the city in
collecting.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-9
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   In lieu of or in addition to a fine, a minor may be ordered to
attend counseling or to perform ten hours of court-approved community service
during times other than the minor’s hours of school attendance and/or the
minor’s parent, custodian, guardian, or other adult having legal care or
custody of the minor may be ordered to attend a parenting class or series of
parenting classes or other counseling approved by the court or recommended by
the Truancy Review Board or to attend any program directly related to improving
school attendance and/or performance.
      (2)   In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to divisions (A) or (B)
above, the minor’s parents, custodian, guardian, or other adult having legal
care or custody of the minor may be ordered to pay all amounts imposed as civil
liability under §
135.21.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-6)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   UTILITY FACILITIES
      
154.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Assignment of addresses
   
150.02   Posting of numbers
   
150.03   Timetable
   
150.04   New buildings
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ASSIGNMENT OF ADDRESSES.
   All structure addresses shall be assigned by the Emergency Telephone Systems
Board through its agent and the 9-1-1 Coordinator and his or her staff. The 9-
1-1 Office will maintain records of all address assignments.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-1)
§ 150.02 POSTING OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Everyone who has been assigned a new locatable address is required to
mark their residence and/or business with the new numbers in a manner in which
emergency service providers can easily see those numbers. Every residence must
have its own number, even if several people share the same mailbox.
   (B)   Buildings which can be easily seen from the road shall have numbers
measuring between three inches and five inches tall, displayed on an exterior
surface facing the road. Yard markers or signposts with the same size numbers
are also acceptable.
   (C)   Buildings which are not within view of the road, due to distance or
obstructions, should also have markings at the entrance drive. Mailboxes should
have numbers on both sign posts with the same size numbers are also acceptable.
   (D)   Apartments using letter or numbers identifications in addition to the
building address should have those designations marked clearly on the door.
Mobile homes with a number or letter designation, in addition to the address
for the mobile home park, must have those designations clearly marked on the
side of the trailer facing the road.
   (E)   Anyone who is still using a post office box number address or a route
box number address because they have not been informed of their new locatable
address or have lost the number must notify the 9-1-1 office to obtain the new
address.
   (F)   Within one year, which is the time period during which the postal
service will continue to deliver mail to the old addresses, the owner or
occupant of each building should remove any previous box number or address
number markings which could be confused with the new number designations.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-2)
§ 150.03 TIMETABLE.
   (A)   Anyone who now has a locatable address shall be given until May 1,
2014, to post the new numbers for their buildings. Anyone who does not get a
new number until after this chapter passed shall have 30 days from issuance of
the new number or until May 1, 2014, whichever is later.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall have the power to bring action on behalf of
the city to prevent violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 NEW BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any person placing or relocating a manufactured home, constructing a
new site-built home or business, or placing a modular home is required to
contact the 9-1-1 office for assignment of a locatable address number.
   (B)   Residents may not use the locatable number of an adjacent house or
manufactured home as their address. A business located within a residence may
use that address; however, if the business is in a separate building with a
different phone number, even if it is on the same property, it must have its
own locatable address.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-4) (Ord. 14-09, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone not posting his or her new numbers within the time frame in §
150.05 shall be given a written notice that they are in violation of this
chapter. If the numbers have not been posted within 30 days of the written
notice, a fine of up to $100 may be levied against the offender. Written
warnings shall also be issued to those who fail to remove confusing former
address numbers. If the numbers are not removed within 30 days of the warning,
a fine of up to $50 may be levied.
(Prior Code, § 33-8-3)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Street Department, Committee established
   
151.02   Undermining
   
151.03   Closing streets
   
151.04   Rainwater drains; culverts
   
151.05   Grass mowing
   
151.06   Driveways
   
151.07   Repairing sidewalks
   
151.08   Street improvements
Obstructions; Prohibited Acts
   
151.20   Open doors
   
151.21   Stairways
   
151.22   Encroachments
   
151.23   Posting bills, signs
   
151.24   Injury to new pavements
   
151.25   Barbed-wire fences
   
151.26   Burning in public places
   
151.27   Signs across streets
   
151.28   Obstructing streets; building materials, merchandise in streets
   
151.29   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
151.30   Deposits on sidewalks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STREET DEPARTMENT, COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Department established. There is hereby established a department of
the municipal government which shall be known as the Street Department. It
shall embrace the Street Committee, the Superintendent of Public Works, and the
employees. The City Engineer shall serve as ex officio officer.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-1)
   (B)   Committee on Streets. The City Council’s Standing Committee on Streets
shall exercise a general supervision over the affairs of the Street Department.
It shall ascertain the needs and conditions thereof and shall, from time to
time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-2)
§ 151.02 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine, in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the city or belonging to any private person.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 CLOSING STREETS.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley, or
public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley, or public
place temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that
the street, alley, or public place is closed by order of the Mayor. Whenever
such signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon or cross such
street, alley, or public place or in, any manner, destroy, deface, or remove
any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-5)
§ 151.04 RAINWATER DRAINS; CULVERTS.
   (A)   Rainwater drains.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
stormwater drain or any drainage pipe in either a natural or human-made ditch
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Applications for such permits
shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be accompanied by a statement as to
the purpose of such drainage pipe, the premises to be served, and the
specification of such pipe to be installed. Such application shall be referred
to the Street Superintendent, and no such permit shall be issued unless he or
she shall have found that the city code would be complied with by the
installation of such stormwater drain or drainage pipe and that the
installation of such stormwater drain or drainage pipe would not interfere
with, overload, obstruct, or otherwise adversely affect the existing stormwater
drainage system within the city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
stormwater drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the city, and it
shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-10)
   (B)   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer. It shall be unlawful to obstruct
any drain or storm sewer in any public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-1)
   (C)   Culverts. It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any
culvert without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-2)
      (1)   Application for permit. Any person desiring a permit to install or
replace any culvert shall file an application therefor with the City Clerk upon
a form to be provided for that purpose. The application and the permit issued
pursuant thereto shall be on the same form which shall be substantially as
outlined in Appendix B, attached to the provisions codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-3)
      (2)   Termination of permit. All such permits shall terminate upon the
expiration of one year following the date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-4)
      (3)   Type of culvert. Culverts shall be installed where driveways or
walkways cross open ditches. The material used for the construction of the
culverts shall be reinforced concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a
minimum wall thickness of 16 gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with
a minimum wall thickness of 16 gauge, asbestos cement storm drain pipe (Class
IV), or of such other material as determined by the Street Department,
depending upon the conditions existing. The culverts shall be of such size,
installed at the grade, and constructed with couplings as determined by the
Street Superintendent. The person desiring the culvert shall purchase a culvert
as provided herein and shall have it delivered on the site. The city shall
install the culvert.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-5)
      (4)   Cost of installation. Any person installing or replacing a culvert
shall, at his or her own expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in
such form and manner as the Street Superintendent determines necessary
depending on the conditions existing.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-6)
      (5)   Backfill cost. Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall,
at his or her own expense, provide and place such backfill material as the
Street Superintendent determines necessary to complete the project.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-7)
      (6)   Replacement cost. The expense of replacing any culvert shall be
borne by the person making application for the permit to install the same.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-8)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
§ 151.05 GRASS MOWING.
   Property owners and/or their tenants shall be jointly and separately
responsible for mowing the grass or weeds between the property lines and the
adjoining street surfaces. The height of the grass or weeds shall not exceed
eight inches.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)    No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals
across any sidewalk in the city without having first obtained a permit
therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and
shall be accompanied by the fee required.
      (2)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use or for
the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served
shall be issued except upon the order of the City Clerk. The applicant shall
pay the cost of the culvert to be installed prior to installation.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-1)
   (B)   Fee. The fee for all such construction shall be $1.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-2)
   (C)   Grade surface.
      (1)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression, or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway
where the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render
it slippery and hazardous to pedestrians or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk or be other than level.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-3)
   (D)   Specifications. Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in
compliance with the specifications required by the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-4)
   (E)   Breaking curb; bond required. Before a permit can be issued to break a
curb in the city for the installation of a driveway or any other purpose, a
bond or cash in the amount of $100 is required to be posted with the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-5)
   (F)   Repair. It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to
keep the same in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from
obstruction and openings.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-2
§ 151.07 REPAIRING SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever any sidewalk, pavement, or cellar door on the same becomes worn out
or out of repair or is torn up or broken and uneven, it shall be the duty of
the Street Superintendent to immediately report such fact to the Mayor or
Street and Alley Committee and, upon verbal or written order from either of
them, to give notice to the party owning the adjoining property to repair such
sidewalk or cellar door without delay.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-3)
§ 151.08 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established
grade of the city, and in all cases where no grade is established, any person
building a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the
Street Superintendent and the City Council. No one shall build a sidewalk
unless it consist of new construction. No one shall remove or destroy a
sidewalk without replacing the same with a new sidewalk.
      (2)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay, or
construct any sidewalk along any property in the city or along any of the
streets, alleys, or public highways thereon without first filing an application
for a permit with the City Clerk and approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the City Council
approves the request, the property owner shall pay the cost of the concrete,
and thereafter, the sidewalk shall be constructed by the city. The cost of
construction shall not include any engineering fees; these shall be paid by the
city.
      (4)   Subdivisions. This division (A) is not applicable to new
subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 33-5-1)
   (B)   Curbs and gutters.
      (1)   Request in writing. 
         (a)   Any person owning property within the city who desires to have
new curbs and gutters constructed along the street adjoining his or her
premises shall file a request with the Street Superintendent, giving the
location of the property and the length of the curbs and gutters requested.
         (b)   All installations shall conform to the requirements of 65 ILCS
5/11-80-11 and the Environmental Barriers Act.
      (2)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the City Council
approves the request, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of the
construction, including engineering fees, and thereafter, the curbs and gutters
shall be maintained by the city.
      (3)   Approval by City Council. The approval of the request for
construction of curbs and gutters by the City Council shall be dependent upon
the approval of funds, priority of projects, and continuity of construction for
the best benefit of the city, as determined by the City Council.
      (4)   Subdivisions. This division (B) is not applicable to new
subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 33-5-2)
   (C)   Storm sewers.
      (1)   Description of stormwater sewers. Stormwater sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, groundwaters, roof
leaders, or stormwaters, rain waters, or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
      (2)   Supervision. The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Departments
shall supervise all connections made to the public storm sewer system or
excavations for the purposes of installing or repairing the same.
      (3)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public stormwater
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Superintendent or his
or her designated representative.
      (4)   Requirements; use of stormwater sewers.
         (a)   Where a stormwater sewer is accessible in a street, alley, or
easement to a building or premises abutting thereon, the surface drains,
groundwaters, roof leaders, or stormwaters shall be discharged into the
stormwater sewer unless otherwise authorized by the city.
         (b)   Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any
substance other than surface waters, groundwaters, roof waters, or stormwaters
be permitted to flow into or be connected to the stormwater sewer, and no
sanitary sewer shall be connected to the stormwater sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 33-5-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7, 65 ILCS 5/11-80-11, and 65 ILCS
5/11-80-13
OBSTRUCTIONS; PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 151.20 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open any door, any gate, or the
grating of any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her on any
street, alley, or sidewalk in the city for any purpose, except the taking in
and removing of goods, and any person allowing such grating to remain open
shall warn passersby of the danger.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.21 STAIRWAYS.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-4)
§ 151.22 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.23 POSTING BILLS, SIGNS.
   (A)   Posting bills. It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint,
print, or nail any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind
on any curbstone, flagstone, or any other portion or part of any sidewalk or
upon any tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door,
or gate without the consent, in writing, of the owner of such curbstone,
flagstone, sidewalk, tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door,
or gate.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-14)
   (B)   Signs on poles. No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint, or fasten or
cause to be nailed, tacked, painted, or fastened any sign or any other foreign
substance or material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police
and/or fire alarm pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any
sidewalk, street, alley, or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or
post.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.24 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.25 BARBED-WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire or with any similar material designed to cause injury to
persons or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within 50 feet of
any public street, sidewalk, alley, park, or other public way or place unless
such barbs or charged wire are at least eight feet above the level of such
public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.26 BURNING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish, or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks, or alleys in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.27 SIGNS ACROSS STREETS.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement, or banner over any or across
any street, alley, or sidewalk in the city unless he or she has written
approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-17
§ 151.28 OBSTRUCTING STREETS; BUILDING MATERIALS, MERCHANDISE IN STREETS.
   (A)   Obstructing street.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any material on any street which
may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or any grass
clippings or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or any
other articles such as glass which may cause injury to any person, animal, or
property.
      (2)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any
public ground or in any public street, alley, or sidewalk in the city any
debris, materials, or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to exercise a
vigilant supervision over such places and to notify any person found making
such deposit or responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-9)
   (B)   Building materials in street. The Street Superintendent may move any
obstruction on any street or sidewalk of the city, but before doing so, he or
she shall notify the person responsible therefor to remove such obstruction
within a reasonable time after being notified. Any person engaged in erecting a
building or fence or improving any lot on such street may deposit materials
thereon and contiguous to such length of time as may be necessary for the work.
The obstruction shall not extend to more than one-half of the width of the
sidewalk, street, or alley adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall
always be left free and unobstructed. At night, such person shall keep an
illuminated warning light on such material.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-11)
   (C)   Merchandise on public street. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to use any street, sidewalk, or other public place as
space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale or to write or make any
signs or advertisements on any such pavements, unless permission is granted by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-12)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 151.29 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any skateboard or motor vehicle on or over any
sidewalk, except in crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.30 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or any glass
or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals, or property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet, and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
   
152.01   Planting
   
152.02   Removal; injury
   
152.03   Advertisements or notices
   
152.04   Dangerous trees
   
152.05   Wires
   
152.06   Gas pipes
§ 152.01 PLANTING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public
street or parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit
therefor.
      (2)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Street
Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the City Council. All
trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to the directions and
approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs, or other
plants on the right-of-way of any public street, including the space on the
right-of-way between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-2)
Penalty, see § 1099
§ 152.02 REMOVAL; INJURY.
   (A)   Removal. It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub
or portion thereof in any street, parkway, or other public place without having
first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Street Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the City
Council before permission shall be granted.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-3)
   (B)   Injury. It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in
such public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement, or notice to any
tree or shrub in any street, parkway, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other
public place in the municipality at a height less than eight feet or in such a
way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall
be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which
such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim or remove
any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall
be done away with.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-6)
§ 152.05 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway, or other public place without the permission of
the City Council.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys, or other public places in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so
far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Street Superintendent, so that no
injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by
their conduct.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-2
CHAPTER 153: UTILITY FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose and scope
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Traffic control
   
153.004   Vegetation control
   
153.005   Cleanup and restoration
   
153.006   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
Administration
   
153.020   Annual registration required
   
153.021   Permit required; application
   
153.022   Action on permit applications
   
153.023   Effect of permit
   
153.024   Revised permit drawings
   
153.025   Insurance
   
153.026   Indemnification; security
   
153.027   Permit suspension and revocation
   
153.028   Change of ownership, owner’s identity, or legal status
   
153.029   Variances
   
153.030   Enforcement
Facility Regulations
   
153.045   General location requirements
   
153.046   Parallel facilities within highways
   
153.047   Facilities crossing highways
   
153.048   Facilities located within particular rights-of-way
   
153.049   Freestanding, above-ground facilities
   
153.050   Attachments to bridges or road structures
   
153.051   Appearance standards
   
153.052   Location of existing facilities
   
153.053   Removal, relocation, or modification of facilities
Construction Methods and Materials
   
153.065   General construction standards
   
153.066   Boring or jacking
   
153.067   Trenching
   
153.068   Backfilling
   
153.069   Pavement cuts
   
153.070   Encasement
   
153.071   Minimum covering of underground facilities
   
153.072   Electric power or communication lines
   
153.073   Other underground facilities
   
153.074   Gas transmission, distribution, and service
   
153.075   Petroleum products pipeline
   
153.076   Water and sewer lines
   
153.077   Ground-mounted appurtenances
   
153.078   Materials
   
153.079   Operational restrictions
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways, and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired, and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license, or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license, or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license, or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license, or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with or
inconsistency between the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license, or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license, or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other articles or chapters. This chapter supersedes all
provisions adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith to the extent of
such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety,
and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-1)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, and any
term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92
Ill. Adm. Code 520.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas, or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CITY. The City of Creal Springs.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electric current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification, or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse affect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
City Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and
imminent risk to the life, health, or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives, or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute, or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads, alleys, or streets. HIGHWAY includes all
highway land and improvements including roadways, ditches and embankments,
bridges, drainage structures, sign, guardrails, protective structures, and
appurtenances necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the State Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means,
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches, or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   JULIE. The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over, or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
153.021 and 153.22 of this chapter.
   PRACTICABLE. Something which is performable, feasible, or possible, rather
than that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radically against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. Something which is done within a period of time specified by the
city. If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. Legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state, or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate, or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in this
definition and shall not include city buildings, fixtures, and other structures
or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
153.026(B).
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices, and experience.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Superintendent of Public Works or his or
her designee, hereinafter referred to as SUPERINTENDENT.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service, and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated, non-traffic-
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel or a group of such channels from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code, and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable
Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the city through an open video system, as defined in the Rules
of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq.), as now
or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates, or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunication at retail, as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility, as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. The term, as defined in § 21-201(v) of the State Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 21-201(v), 220 ILCS 5/21-401, 605 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq.
§ 153.003 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices, and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business,
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business, or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
153.006, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the city.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-14) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.004 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities - compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations and, additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities - tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing the same shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation but
shall require the application for and the issuance of a permit, in addition to
any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire, or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following division (D)(2), no utility
shall spray, inject, or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs, or
vegetation in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects, or disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Superintendent that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-17) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged, or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads.
   (B)   Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and
methods approved by the Superintendent. Such cleanup and repair may be required
to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other
requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially equivalent
to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period
provided in this section may be extended by the Superintendent for good cause
shown.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-19)
§ 153.006 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way,
including the use of signs, lights, barricades, or flags. If a hazard does not
exist on the traveled way but the nature of the emergency is such as to require
the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency, informing
him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling
public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature
of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
city police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file, in writing, with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-20)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.020 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies a right-of-way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Superintendent, providing the utility’s name,
address, and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers; the name of one
or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-
hour telephone number for each such person; and evidence of insurance, as
required in §
153.025, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 153.021 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right-of-way which:
      (1)   Changes the location of the facility;
      (2)   Adds a new facility;
      (3)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter); or
      (4)   (a)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by
the facility on, over, above, along, under, across, or within the right-of-way
without first filing an application with the Superintendent and obtaining a
permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
         (b)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address (if different than the utility),
its telephone or telecopy number, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses, and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the State Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed.
      (6)   Drawings, plans, and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications, comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance, as required in §
153.025;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund, as required in §
153.026;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see § 153.029); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service, or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required, by law, to obtain or that the applicant has elected to obtain has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have
been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a base fee in the amount of $100. Additional application
review costs will vary with the complexity of the project and will be
determined on a case-by-case basis and shall be paid prior to issuance of final
permit. No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility
that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee
pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-4) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.022 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Superintendent
within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to
the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the Superintendent shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Superintendent is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Superintendent shall issue
a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the
duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent, that the construction proposed under the application shall be
in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to commence
work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The Superintendent shall specify the portion of the
right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used, or constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Superintendent fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either ten
days after service of notice to the city by the telecommunications retailer, in
the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or 25 days after
service of notice by the telecommunications retailer, in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
153.021, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications, and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization. Applications by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed
granted 45 days after submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by
the city, provided the holder has complied with applicable city codes,
ordinances, and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 65/4
§ 153.023 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights-of-way and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a preconstruction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time, and place designated by the city with
such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-6)
§ 153.024 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   (A)   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in
any material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings, and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit.
   (B)   If any deviation from the permit also deviates from the requirements
of this chapter, it shall be treated as a request for variance in accordance
with §
153.029. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility
so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-7)
§ 153.025 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies, insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)
and (A)(2) below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred as
“X,” “C,” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned, and hired vehicles with
a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage
for each accident;
      (3)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident. If the utility is not providing such
insurance to protect the contractors and subcontractors performing the work,
then such contractors and subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten days following receipt
of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt
by the city, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the City Administrator of such intent to cancel
or not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance.
      (1)   A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A utility that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds under division (A)
above or the requirements of divisions (B), (C), and (D) above.
      (2)   A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a private self-insurer under the Worker’s
Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rates “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-8)
§ 153.026 INDEMNIFICATION; SECURITY.
   (A)   Indemnification. By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-
of-way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify, and hold the
city and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents,
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses, and expenses, including reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of suit or defense arising out of, resulting from, or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless, or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act, or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors, or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license,
or similar agreement; provided, however, the utility’s indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses, or expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence,
misconduct, or breach of this chapter by the city or its officials, officers,
employees, agents, or representatives.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-9)
   (B)   Security.
      (1)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form
and in an amount as set forth in this division (B). The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this division (B) at the permittee’s
sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the
permit. The Security Fund shall serve a security for:
         (a)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the
requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits, and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
         (c)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
      (2)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the city in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash; a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the city; or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant
to this division (B) shall, at a minimum:
         (a)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
         (b)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the city of any amounts covered by it; and
         (c)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
      (3)   Amount.
         (a)   The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Superintendent, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be incurred if the
permittee fails to perform such restoration.
         (b)   Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit
will be performed in phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase
consisting of construction of facilities in one location or related group of
locations and where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior
to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the
Superintendent may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (B)(3) for any single phase.
      (4)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days’ advance written notice,
clearly stating the reason for and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
hereunder, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-day notice
period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
         (a)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
         (b)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
         (c)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs, or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
         (d)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
      (5)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from
the city that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the
permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division
(B)(3) above.
      (6)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest
accrued on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the
city, upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any
such withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance
required in division (B)(3) above.
      (7)   Closing and return of Security Fund.
         (a)   Upon completion of the work authorized under the permit, the
permittee shall be entitled to the return of the Security Fund or such portion
thereof as remains on deposit, within a reasonable time after account is taken,
for all offsets necessary to compensate the city for failure by the permittee
to comply with any provisions of this chapter or other applicable law.
         (b)   In the event of any revocation of the permit, the Security Fund
and any and all accrued interest therein shall become the property of the city
to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs, loss, or damage incurred
by the city as a result of said revocation, provided that any amounts in excess
of said costs, loss, or damage shall be refunded to the permittee.
      (8)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city, with respect
to the Security Fund, are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-10)
§ 153.027 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
      (3)   (a)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the city, providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
         (b)   The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) above, the city or its designee
may, at the option of the city:
      (1)   Correct the deficiencies;
      (2)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
      (3)   (a)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of
failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the
city.
         (b)   The permittee shall be liable, in all events, to the city for
all costs of removal.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-11)
§ 153.028 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, OWNER’S IDENTITY, OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city’s right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-12)
§ 153.029 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Superintendent
of Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Superintendent shall decide whether
a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Superintendent may authorize
a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations, or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Superintendent may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision, or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the
Superintendent under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the City Council or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the City
Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision, or
determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days
after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely decide the
appeal.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-21)
§ 153.030 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-23)
FACILITY REGULATIONS
§ 153.045 GENERAL LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to location requirements applicable to specific types of utility
facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of type, shall be subject to the
general location requirements of this section.
   (A)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities shall be
placed in any location if the Superintendent determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the city’s
utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city’s utility facilities.
   (B)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
   (C)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
   (D)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
   (E)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 153.046 PARALLEL FACILITIES WITHIN HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
      (1)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
      (2)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6m) behind the face of the
curb, where available;
      (3)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2m) outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
      (4)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
      (5)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3m)
of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
   (B)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility may
be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
      (1)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4m) from and parallel to the right-
of-way line;
      (2)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a highway
only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (such as a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
      (3)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5m) from the right-of-way line, and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 153.047 FACILITIES CROSSING HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
   (B)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
   (C)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at or
as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
   (D)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      (1)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s rules
entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83 Ill.
Adm. Code 305);
      (2)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3m) of the right-of-way line
of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
      (3)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
   (E)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      (1)   The design materials and construction methods will provide maximum
maintenance-free service life; and
      (2)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
   (F)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at each
right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway.
      (1)   Each marker shall identify the type of facility, the utility, and
an emergency phone number.
      (2)   Markers may also be eliminated as provided in current federal
regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707).
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 153.048 FACILITIES LOCATED WITHIN PARTICULAR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The city may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-
way that are not highways, rather than within particular highways.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 153.049 FREESTANDING, ABOVE-GROUND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (B)   Facilities installed above ground. Above-ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   (a)   The proposed installation will be made at a location and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety.
         (b)   Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-
supporting armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of
conductors and cable.
         (c)   Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used
wherever practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 153.050 ATTACHMENTS TO BRIDGES OR ROAD STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports,
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk, and such installations are not
permitted.
   (B)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations: the type, volume, pressure, or voltage
of the commodity to be transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to
persons and property in the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
      (1)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
      (2)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
      (3)   The proposed method of attachment;
      (4)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
      (5)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
      (6)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
      (7)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared to
the risk involved.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 153.051 APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
   (B)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 153.052 LOCATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Any utility proposing to construct facilities in the city shall contact
JULIE and ascertain the presence and location of existing above-ground and
underground facilities within the rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed
facilities. The city will make its permit record available to a utility for the
purpose of identifying possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or
when requested by the city or by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically
mark its underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and
holidays, in accordance with the State Underground Facilities Damage Prevention
Act, 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
§ 153.053 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change, or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change, or alteration is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
city improvement in or upon or the operations of the city in or upon the
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate, or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities.
      (1)   Upon abandonment of a facility within the rights-of-way of the
city, the utility shall notify the city within 90 days. Following receipt of
such notice, the city may direct the utility to remove all or any portion of
the facility if the Superintendent determines that such removal will be in the
best interest of the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-18)
CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS
§ 153.065 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment, and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm. Code
545);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Superintendent shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Superintendent shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-13)
§ 153.066 BORING OR JACKING.
   (A)   Pits and shoring. Boring and jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
Superintendent from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall
be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations
and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are
completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by
barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and
maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that
may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
   (B)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be permitted
under the roadway.
   (C)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25mm).
   (D)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches or
less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger, or
auger and following pipe method.
   (E)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of any
tree designed by the city to be preserved shall be bored under or around the
root system.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.067 TRENCHING.
   Trenching for facility installation, repair, or maintenance on rights-of-way
shall be done in accord with the applicable portions of § 603 IDOT’s Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
   (A)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the practicable
minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only one-half of
any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special permission
is obtained from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Open trench and excavated material
      (1)    Open trench and wind rowed excavated material shall be protected
as required by Chapter 6 of the State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices. Where practicable, the excavated material shall be deposited between
the roadway and the trench as added protection. Excavated material shall not be
allowed to remain on the paved portion of the roadway.
      (2)   Where right-of-way width does not allow for wind rowing excavated
material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material shall be
hauled to an off-road location.
   (C)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip line
of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.068 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
   (B)   (1)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility.
      (2)   If so ordered by the Superintendent, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.069 PAVEMENT CUTS.
   Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair shall be discouraged but
may be permitted only upon location specific approval by the Superintendent and
only if that portion of the roadway is closed to traffic.
   (A)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted as
soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon as
practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
   (C)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
   (D)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a concrete
surface/base in the last seven years or resurfaced in the last three years,
permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an emergency
repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the time of the
reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a JULIE locate.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.070 ENCASEMENT.
   (A)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the highway and
any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either by one-
piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the city.
   (B)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one foot
(0.3m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be located in
the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the highway.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city-approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway.
      (2)   Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed prior to highway
construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical joints are of a type
approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be encased regardless of
installation method.
   (D)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may be
eliminated.
   (E)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
      (1)   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
      (2)   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
   (F)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products pipeline,
the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does not
disrupt the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.071 MINIMUM COVERING OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.
   Cover shall be provided and maintained at least in the amount specified in
the following table for minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                       Minimum Cover
Communication, cable, or video service 18 to 24 inches (0.6m, as determined by
lines                                  city)
Electric lines                         30 inches (0.8m)
Gas or petroleum products              30 inches (0.8m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or        Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                          protection
Water line                             Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                       protection
 
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.072 ELECTRIC POWER OR COMMUNICATION LINES.
   (A)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities within
city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in conformity
with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 305 (formerly General Order 160 of the
State Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction of Electric Power
and Communications Lines” and the National Electrical Safety Code.
   (B)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities shall
use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles shall
be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
   (C)   Underground facilities.
      (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
      (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement shall
be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if
the crossing is installed by the use of moles, whip augers, or other approved
method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable installation or
the installation is by the open trench method which is only permitted prior to
roadway construction.
      (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National Electrical
Safety Code.
      (4)   (a)   All temporary service drops placed between November 1 of the
prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as snowdrops, shall be
buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting, unless otherwise
permitted by the city.
         (b)   Weather permitting, utilities shall bury all temporary drops,
excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after placement.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.073 OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.
   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines may
be installed by:
   (A)   The use of moles, whip augers, or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
   (B)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the ditch
lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
   (C)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines or
toes of slopes but only if prior to roadway construction; or
   (D)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.074 GAS TRANSMISSION, DISTRIBUTION, AND SERVICE.
   Gas pipelines within rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and
operated in a city-approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of
the Office of Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part
192, “Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal
Safety Standards (49 C.F.R. part 192); IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction; and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.075 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINE.
   Petroleum products pipelines within rights-of-way shall conform to the
applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code for Pressure Piping (Liquid
Petroleum/Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-B 31.4).
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.076 WATER AND SEWER LINES.
   Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and drainage lines
within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the current
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.077 GROUND-MOUNTED APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Ground-mounted appurtenances to overhead or underground facilities,
when permitted within a right-of-way, shall be provided with a vegetation-free
area extending one foot (305mm) in width beyond the appurtenance in all
directions.
   (B)   The vegetation-free area may be provided by an extension of the
mounting pad or by heavy-duty plastic or similar material approved by the
Superintendent; shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of
vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be
painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.078 MATERIALS.
   (A)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the Illinois Commerce
Commission, or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies
for the appropriate industry.
   (B)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on the
right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Superintendent. When
such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from
the city.
   (C)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.079 OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of the
city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create hazards
to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations may also
be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such that
construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
   (B)   These restrictions may be waived by the Superintendent when emergency
work is required to restore vital utility services.
   (C)   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of construction are
from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when
the city will incur delay or other costs, including third-party claims, because
the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
city’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility
that does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (See § 10.99 for additional
penalties.)
(Prior Code, § 33-4-22)
CHAPTER 154: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Adopted regulations
   
154.03   National safety standards; inspections
   
154.04   Prohibited residential uses
   
154.05   Off-street parking
   
154.06   Fire extinguishers
   
154.07   Detectors
   
154.08   Immobilized manufactured homes
Manufactured Home Parks
   
154.20   Compliance
   
154.21   Permits
   
154.22   Plan document; application
   
154.23   Location
   
154.24   Roadways and parking
   
154.25   Lot size
   
154.26   Restrictions
   
154.27   Skirting
   
154.28   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and the City Council.
   IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOME. As applied to a manufactured home, IMMOBILIZE
means to remove the wheels, tongue, and hitch and to affix to a permanent
foundation. The term implies that, once affixed to a permanent foundation, the
destruction of said foundation would be necessary in order to move the dwelling
to another location.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the city allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term shall only include manufactured homes constructed after June
30, 1976, in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974. Compliance with this standard is indicated by a
two-inch by four-inch metal plate attached to the exterior tail light end of
the manufactured home. The average width and/or length of the living area
(excluding garages, carports, porches, or attachments) of a manufactured home
shall not exceed a ratio of three to one. As with all residences, a
MANUFACTURED HOME shall have a minimum 4/12 pitch roof with residential style
siding and roofing, six-inch minimum eave overhang, and shall have a minimum
living area of not less than 900 square feet. Provided that any such structure
resting on a permanent foundation with wheels, tongue, and hitch permanently
removed shall not be construed as a MANUFACTURED HOME, but shall be an
IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOME. A MANUFACTURED HOME should not be confused with
a camping trailer or recreational vehicle.
(210 ILCS 115/2.10)
   MANUFACTURED HOME, DEPENDENT. A manufactured home which does not have a
toilet and bath or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.3)
   MANUFACTURED HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. Consists of two mobile units joined at the
side into a single home but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation to a site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, INDEPENDENT. A manufactured home which has self-contained
toilet and bath or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.4)
   MANUFACTURED HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a manufactured
home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PAD. The part of an individual manufactured home space or
lot beneath the manufactured home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of
land upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for two or more
independent manufactured homes for permanent habitation, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such
manufactured home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall
not preclude the tracts of land from common licensure as a manufactured home
park if they are maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized
manufactured home nor a motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as
being a part of a MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
(210 ILCS 115/2.5)
   MANUFACTURED HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale,
and repair of new or used manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A portion of a manufactured home park designed for
the use or occupancy of one manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT. All forms of housing units listed in this section
and as regulated in this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall only include homes constructed prior to
June 30, 1976, not in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
   MODULAR HOME. A modular home is a factory-fabricated single-family home
built in one or more sections. The average width and/or length of the living
area (excluding garages, carports, porches, or attachments) of a modular home
shall not exceed a ratio of three to one. All MODULAR HOMES shall be placed on
a full perimeter foundation, extending below the frost depth. All wheels and
towing devices shall be removed. As with all residences, a MODULAR HOME shall
have a minimum 4/12 pitch roof with residential style siding and roofing, six-
inch minimum eave overhang, and shall have a minimum living area of not less
than 900 square feet. MODULAR HOMES shall have a yellow seal in the shape of
the state on the electrical panel box of the home or on the inside of the
kitchen sink cabinet. Local officials may require additional items other than
the minimum state requirements such as the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) or the International Building Code
(I.B.C.). All structures shall be placed on a permanent foundation in order
that they may be assessed as real estate.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A foundation which extends into the ground below the
frost line so as to attach and become a part of the real estate. Materials such
as concrete, mortared concrete block, poured wall, or mortared brick extending
into the ground below the frost line shall satisfy the requirement for a
PERMANENT FOUNDATION. In addition, piers may be used, extending into the ground
below the frost line and sufficient in number to properly support the
structure, provided the support beams are affixed to the permanent perimeter
foundation.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by the Building or Zoning Inspector, permitting
the construction, alteration, or reduction in number of spaces of a
manufactured home park under the provisions in this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, or person doing business under an assumed name,
county, municipality, the state, or any political subdivision or department
thereof or any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this city for an indefinite period of time.
   SITE. The lot on which the manufactured home is located for permanent
habitation.
(210 ILCS 115/2.7)
   SPACE. Synonymous with MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this city for a temporary period of time with an expectation of
resumption.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-1)
§ 154.02 ADOPTED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   State requirements adopted by reference. The State Mobile Home Park
Act and the Mobile Home Tiedown Act (77 Ill. Adm. Code 870) of the 210 ILCS
115/1 et seq., as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly,
are hereby adopted by the city. The applicable provisions as they pertain to
manufactured homes and immobilized manufactured homes shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-2)
   (B)   Manufactured housing act adopted. The State Manufactured Housing and
Mobile Home Act, as passed and approved by the State General Assembly, is
hereby adopted by the city; the applicable provisions as they pertain to
manufactured homes and immobilized manufactured homes shall be controlling
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-3)
   (C)   State Department of Public Health adopted and regulations. The
Manufactured Home Community Code, as approved by the State Department of Public
Health, is hereby adopted by the city. The applicable provisions as they
pertain to the manufactured home community shall be controlling within the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq. and 430 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
§ 154.03 NATIONAL SAFETY STANDARDS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   National Safety Standards. No manufactured home or immobilized
manufactured home shall be located in the city unless the unit has the National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards metal seal affixed
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-5)
   (B)   Inspection. All manufactured housing units located in the city shall
be subject to reasonable inspection by an official or officials designated by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-7)
§ 154.04 PROHIBITED RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Dependent mobile home. It shall be unlawful to locate a dependent
mobile home in the city unless placed in a state-licensed travel trailer park.
   (B)   Independent travel trailer. It shall be unlawful to reside in an
independent travel trailer in the city unless it is located in a state-licensed
travel trailer park.
   (C)   Manufactured home. It shall be unlawful to locate a manufactured home
or a mobile home in a state-licensed travel trailer park without written
permission of the City Council or the Zoning Board.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Every owner of a manufactured housing unit shall provide for an off-street
parking area of 400 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-8)
§ 154.06 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   All manufactured housing units located in the city shall be equipped with a
fire extinguishing apparatus capable of extinguishing all types of fires. Such
extinguishers shall be of sufficient size so that they will reasonably protect
the manufactured housing units. All fire extinguishers shall be approved by the
Fire Chief or his or her designated representative prior to installation of the
manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 425 ILCS 60/1-60/4
§ 154.07 DETECTORS.
   (A)   Carbon monoxide alarm detectors. Each unit shall be equipped with a
carbon monoxide alarm detector as prescribed by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-10)
   (B)   Smoke and fire detectors. Each unit shall be equipped with smoke and
fire detectors as prescribed by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 135/1 et seq.
§ 154.08 IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOMES
   (A)   Immobilized manufactured homes. All immobilized manufactured homes
located in the city shall be classified as real estate; therefore, it is
mandatory for all persons owning, operating, renting, or leasing an existing
manufactured home outside a manufactured home park to remove or cause to have
removed the wheels or any other transportation device from the manufactured
home. The owner or lessor shall permanently fix it to the ground in a manner
that conforms to the definition of an immobilized manufactured home in §
154.01. All existing manufactured homes, when replaced, shall comply with the
immobilization provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-1)
   (B)   Permit; fee. All persons seeking to locate or replace a manufactured
home or an immobilized manufactured home outside a manufactured home park shall
obtain a Building or Zoning Permit from the City Clerk or Building Inspector.
No utility services shall be connected to the unit until the city has issued
the appropriate permits. The fee to locate or relocate a manufactured home or
immobilized manufactured home shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-2)
   (C)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for the location of an immobilized
manufactured home unit shall be 8,000 square feet. All units shall be located
in the city according to the requirements and restrictions of this chapter.
They shall not exceed 40% coverage of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-3)
   (D)   Limit of units. There shall be only one immobilized manufactured home
per lot in the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-4)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 154.20 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Every manufactured home park hereafter established in the city shall,
at a minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      (1)   The State Mobile Home Park Act and the Mobile Home Tiedown Act (77
Ill. Adm. Code 870) of the 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq., as passed, approved, and
amended by the State General Assembly, are hereby adopted by the city. The
applicable provisions as they pertain to manufactured homes and immobilized
manufactured homes shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the
city;
      (2)   The Manufactured Home Community Code, as approved by the State
Department of Public Health, is hereby adopted by the city. The applicable
provisions as they pertain to manufactured home community shall be controlling
within the corporate limits; and
      (3)   This chapter and the Zoning Code, if any, shall also be complied
with.
   (B)   In case of conflict between any provisions of the above, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
§ 154.21 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permitting and planning a park. Any person seeking to establish,
operate, alter, or expand a manufactured home park shall obtain a permit to
construct or a license to operate a manufactured home park. CONSTRUCT OR
OPERATE A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, as used in this chapter, shall include, but
not necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining common water, sewer, or
other utility supplies or services or the collection of rents, directly or
indirectly, from two or more independent manufactured homes. All plans shall be
submitted to the City Council or Plan Commission for approval prior to the
granting of a permit.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-2)
   (B)   Local government requirements. A permit does not relieve the applicant
from complying with this chapter or other ordinances applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-3)
   (C)   Permits. The Plan Commission or the City Council shall review each
application and plan documents submitted. When the application and plan
documents are found to be in compliance with the Manufactured Home Community
Code, as approved by the State Department of Public Health, the City Council or
its designee may issue the proper permit to construct or alter a manufactured
home park to the applicant. Permits shall be valid for one year from date of
issue.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-4)
   (D)   Inspection of manufactured home park. Upon completion of the proposed
construction of a manufactured home park or the proposed alteration of a
manufactured home park, the applicant shall notify the city or the designated
official in order that an inspection of the complete facilities can be made.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-5)
   (E)   Violation proceedings. Any license granted hereunder shall be subject
to revocation or suspension by the Mayor. However, the Mayor or his or her
representative shall first serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a
written notice in which shall be specified the way or ways in which such
licensee has failed to comply with the statutes or any rules or regulations
promulgated by the city pertaining thereto. The notice shall require the
licensee to remove or abate such nuisance, unsanitary, or objectionable
condition, specified in such notice within five days or within a longer period
of time as may be allowed by the City Council. If the licensee fails to comply
with the terms and conditions of the notice within the time specified or such
extended period of time, the Mayor or his or her representative may revoke or
suspend such license.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-6)
   (F)   Initial permit required. Each manufactured home that locates on a lot
in a manufactured home park shall secure an initial building or zoning permit
from the city. All future locations on the same lot shall be exempt from the
fee.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-7)
§ 154.22 PLAN DOCUMENT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Plan document.
      (1)   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to
operate a manufactured home park, the applicant shall file with the city a
written application and plan documents, and such plan documents shall be
prepared by a registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the
state, with registration seal affixed.
      (2)   Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the application
filed with the City Clerk to obtain a permit to construct or alter a
manufactured home park or an original license to operate a manufactured home
park not previously licensed by the Department.
      (3)   These plans shall include, but not be limited to, the design and
construction criteria set forth herein. If there is a Zoning Administrator,
then the plans should be filed with that office.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-10)
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Every applicant shall file with the City Clerk a written
application and plan documents for the proposed construction or alteration of a
manufactured home park.
      (2)   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the
engineer or architect and shall include:
         (a)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants or
names and addresses of the partners (if the applicant is a partnership or the
names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation) and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application;
         (b)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon
which the manufactured home park is to be located;
         (c)   The plot plans of the manufactured home park, building plans,
and specifications for existing buildings and facilities and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities;
         (d)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached; and
         (e)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of
$300 for a permit to construct or an application fee of $150 for a permit to
alter to increase the size of the park.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-11)
§ 154.23 LOCATION.
   (A)   Sites selected for manufactured home development shall be well-drained
and free from topographical or geological hinderances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The manufactured home
development shall not be located near swamps, wetlands, marshes, or other
breeding places of insects, rats, mice, or other rodents. When a good, natural
drainage is not available, stormwater drainage shall be provided and such
drainage shall not endanger any water supply or surface watercourse.
   (B)   The City Council may authorize a site survey to ascertain that the
proposed location complies with the above requirements.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-12)
§ 154.24 ROADWAYS AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed in
compliance with the Subdivision Code.
   (B)   All streets in parks constructed shall have a minimum right-of-way of
50 feet and a minimum road width of 32 feet for the purpose of this code and
shall be considered private streets to be maintained by the park owner or
operator. If a manufactured home park has more than 50 units, a wider street
may be required by the corporate authorities.
   (C)   Sidewalks and walkways shall be constructed abutting a street in a
manufactured home park and shall be a minimum of four feet in width; provided,
however, there shall be no minimum width requirement for sidewalks for each
individual lot. No portion of a mobile home shall block, in any way, the
pedestrian traffic on the walkways.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-13)
§ 154.25 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for a manufactured home pad shall be 8,000 square feet
with a minimum frontage of 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-17)
§ 154.26 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No manufactured home unit parked in a manufactured home park shall be
immobilized.
   (B)   Not more than one manufactured home unit shall be parked in one space.
   (C)   No travel-trailer shall be permitted in any manufactured home park,
unless a special area has been approved for that purpose by the City Council or
the Zoning Board.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-18)
§ 154.27 SKIRTING.
   Skirting shall be used to conceal all underpinning, plumbing, and support
piers, whether on a permanent foundation or otherwise. All skirting shall be
installed on all manufactured housing units within 60 days of the placement of
the unit.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-19)
§ 154.28 FEES.
   The annual license fee per manufactured home park shall be $100 and shall be
due and payable on or before May 1 of each year. The City Clerk shall notify
the owner or operator of the annual fee at least 30 days prior to May 1.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-21)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites 2024 Code
ILCS Cites                   2024 Code
1 ILCS                       70.01
5 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10           31.21
5 ILCS 70/1.01               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29               10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                  10.04
5 ILCS 120/1                 30.22;
                             30.41
5 ILCS 120/2                 30.41
5 ILCS 120/2.02              30.39
                             30.22;
5 ILCS 120/2.06              30.40;
                             30.41
5 ILCS 120/2.06(c)           31.20
5 ILCS 120/7                 30.42
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.         31.41
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.     10.02
5 ILCS 270/1                 31.04
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.       31.44
5 ILCS 430/5-15              31.44
5 ILCS 430/10-10—10-40     31.44
5 ILCS 430/70-5              31.44
10 ILCS                      31.01
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.       33.99
30 ILCS 235/6                31.22
30 ILCS 580/1 et seq.        31.47
40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.     35.17
                             35.50;
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.         114.06;
                             114.07
50 ILCS 105/2                30.04;
                             30.23
50 ILCS 205/1 et seq.        112.27
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.        32.18
65 ILCS 3.1-35-20            30.01
65 ILCS 5                    10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2              10.02;
                             11.04
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4              31.20
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5              31.20
65 ILCS 5/1-2-7              10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-8              10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2              70.01;
                             130.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5           31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(A)        31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(B)        31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6           31.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10          31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15          31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30          31.02;
                             31.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35          31.02;
                             31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40          31.02;
                             31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45          31.21;
                             31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50          30.37;
                             31.07
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(C)(4)    31.07
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(D)       30.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5           30.01;
                             31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10          30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15          30.01;
                             30.23
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20          31.02;
                             31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25          31.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-10          30.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-25          31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20          32.18
                             31.20;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5           31.22—
                             31.25
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5           30.07
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10          30.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30          30.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35          30.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40          31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 et seq.  51.081;
                             53.076
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45          31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50          31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55          31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65          31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70          31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85          31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90          11.03;
                             31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95          31.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110         31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115         31.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15          30.38
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20          30.36;
                             30.37
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25          30.35
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30          30.09
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35          30.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40          30.56
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45          30.57
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50          30.58
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55          30.59
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5           31.06;
                             31.27
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10          31.06;
                             31.27
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15          31.27
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5           30.04
65 ILCS 5/4-209.1            92.09
65 ILCS 5/5-2-2              31.03
65 ILCS 5/7-4-2              11.02
65 ILCS 5/7-41               30.21
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1              35.01
65 ILCS 5/8-8-8              35.16
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1             35.22
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2             35.99
65 ILCS 8-9-1                36.01
65 ILCS 8-9-2                36.01
65 ILCS 5/9-24.5             93.99
                             70.01;
                             90.11;
                             90.51;
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1             90.56;
                             130.02;
                             131.01;
                             131.24;
                             133.35
65 ILCS 5/11-1-2             32.18
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5             132.09;
                             135.16
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6             33.05
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1             135.03
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1.5           113.05
                             132.01—
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2             132.04;
                             133.11
65 ILCS 5/11-5-4             132.07
65 ILCS 5/11-5-6             90.06;
                             90.11
65 ILCS 5/11-5-9             135.21
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4             131.22
65 ILCS 5/11-13              35.15
65 ILCS 5/11-16              33.21
65 ILCS 5/11-19-4            35.19
65 ILCS 5/11-20-6            93.23
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7            93.23
                             90.11;
65 ILCS 5/11-20-9            90.27;
                             90.51;
                             90.56
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13           93.37 
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1            93.08
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.1          93.08
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.1 et seq.  93.99
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3            93.07
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1          92.01;
                             92.09
65 ILCS 5/11-42-3            111.07
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5            110.10;
                             110.33
65 ILCS 5/11-51              132.13
65 ILCS 5/11-52.21           96.06
65 ILCS 5/11-53              132.10
65 ILCS 5/11-55-1            112.06
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2            93.05;
                             93.06
65 ILCS 5/11-80-2            151.06;
                             152.06
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3            151.28
65 ILCS 5/11-80-7            151.04;
                             151.08
65 ILCS 5/11-80-11           151.08
65 ILCS 5/11-80-13           133.08;
                             151.08
65 ILCS 5/11-80-15           133.10
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17           151.27
65 ILCS 5/11-81-1            35.21
65 ILCS 5/11-81-2            35.21
65 ILCS 5/11-139-8           50.03
65 ILCS 5/11-150-1           51.087
65 ILCS 5/12-5               31.20
65 ILCS 5/13-2               130.01
65 ILCS 120/2.02             30.35
65 ILCS 120/2.03             30.35
65 ILCS 5/1140-1             71.24
75 ILCS 5/3-1                35.18
75 ILCS 5/3-4                35.18
75 ILCS 5/4-1                30.23
105 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.      135.15
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.       154.02;
                             154.20
210 ILCS 115/2.3             154.01
210 ILCS 115/2.4             154.01
210 ILCS 115/2.5             154.01
210 ILCS 115/2.7             154.01
210 ILCS 115/2.10            154.01
220 ILCS 5/21-401            114.01;
                             153.002
                             114.01—
220 ILCS 5/22-501            114.03;
                             114.07;
                             114.08
220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(l)      114.99
220 ILCS 5/22-501(s)         114.08
220 ILCS 21-201(v)           153.002
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.        153.052
220 ILCS 65/4                153.022
225 ILCS 320/3               52.25
230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.        115.063
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.        112.05;
                             115.063
235 ILCS                     115.001;
                             115.085
235 ILCS 5/1-3.02            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.04            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.06            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.18            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.21            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.22            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.23            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.25            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.30            115.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.34            115.001
                             115.015;
                             115.018—
                             115.020;
                             115.035;
235 ILCS 5/4-1               115.040;
                             115.062;
                             115.064;
                             115.065;
                             115.086
235 ILCS 5/4-2               30.08
235 ILCS 5/4-4               115.085;
                             115.087
235 ILCS 5/4-5               115.017
235 ILCS 5/6-1               115.020
235 ILCS 5/6-2               115.017
235 ILCS 5/6-5               115.038
235 ILCS 5/6-10              115.088
235 ILCS 5/6-11              115.036
235 ILCS 5/6-12              115.036
235 ILCS 5/6-15              115.038
                             115.039;
235 ILCS 5/6-16              115.066—
                             115.069
235 ILCS 5/6-17              115.038
235 ILCS 5/6-19              115.038
235 ILCS 5/6-20              115.002;
                             115.066
235 ILCS 5/6-21              115.017;
                             115.022
235 ILCS 5/6-22              115.038
235 ILCS 5/6-24              115.023
235 ILCS 5/7-1               115.016
235 ILCS 5/7-5               115.091; 115.99
235 ILCS 5/7-7               115.090
235 ILCS 5/7-9               115.091;
                             115.092
235 ILCS 5/7-13              115.024
235 ILCS 5/7-14              115.036
235 ILCS 5/10-2              115.044
235 ILCS 5/10-3              115.045
235 ILCS 5/10-4              115.024
235 ILCS 5/10-5              115.024
235 ILCS 5/10-6              115.070
235 ILCS 5/10-7              115.089
235 ILCS 5/13.17.1           115.001
235 ILCS 5/13.24             115.001
235 ILCS 5/620               115.041;
                             115.042
410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.       115.037
410 ILCS 650/10              115.037
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.         91.03
415 ILCS 5/4(e)              52.25
415 ILCS 105/1 et seq.       133.35
425 ILCS 60/1-60/4           154.06
430 ILCS 115/1 et seq.       154.02
430 ILCS 135/1 et seq.       154.07
510 ILCS 5/1                 90.01
510 ILCS 5/2                 90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.02              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.03              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.05              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.06              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.11a             90.02;
                             90.50
510 ILCS 5/2.11b             90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.12              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.13              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.14              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.15              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.16              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.18              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.19              90.02
510 ILCS 5/2.052A            90.02;
                             90.50
510 ILCS 5/10                90.29
510 ILCS 5/13                90.29
510 ILCS 5/15                90.52;
                             90.53
510 ILCS 5/16                90.55
510 ILCS 5/17                90.54;
                             90.56
510 ILCS 5/24                90.02;
                             90.56
510 ILCS 70/3                90.35
510 ILCS 70/7.1              90.34
510 ILCS 5.17c               90.02
510 ILCS 5.211               90.02
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.     153.002
625 ILCS                     70.01
625 ILCS 5                   92.08
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8           70.07
625 ILCS 5/1-188             10.02
625 ILCS 5/3-815             72.04
625 ILCS 5/3-821.1           92.05
625 ILCS 5/4-107(k)          92.10
625 ILCS 5/4-202             92.02
625 ILCS 5/4-204             92.02;
                             92.04
625 ILCS 5/4-205             92.05
625 ILCS 5/4-206             92.06
625 ILCS 5/4-207             92.08
625 ILCS 5/4-208             92.08
625 ILCS 5/4-209             92.05;
                             92.08
625 ILCS 5/4-210             92.08
625 ILCS 5/4-211             92.10
625 ILCS 5/4-212.1           92.11
625 ILCS 5/4-213             92.11
625 ILCS 5/4-214             93.01
625 ILCS 5/6-306.5           72.07
625 ILCS 5/11-100 et seq.    71.01
625 ILCS 5/11-203            70.03
625 ILCS 5/11-206            70.02
625 ILCS 5/11-208            70.06
625 ILCS 5/11-301            70.04
625 ILCS 5/11-302            70.06
625 ILCS 5/11-304            70.06
625 ILCS 5/11-313            71.23
625 ILCS 5/11-415            71.02
625 ILCS 5/11-502            71.03
625 ILCS 5/11-504            71.21
625 ILCS 5/11-505            71.04
625 ILCS 5/12-602            70.07
625 ILCS 5/11-604            71.21
625 ILCS 5/12-605            70.07
625 ILCS 5/12-605.1          70.07
625 ILCS 5/12-605.2          70.07
625 ILCS 5/11-608            71.21;
                             71.24
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq. 72.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2         72.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(C)      72.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1302           72.05
625 ILCS 5/12-611            70.07
625 ILCS 5/4201              92.01
625 ILCS 5/11206             70.02
625 ILCS 12                  70.07
626 ILCS 5/11-1006           110.09
720 ILCS                     130.02
720 ILCS 2-1—2-11          130.01
720 ILCS 2-13—2-16         130.01
720 ILCS 2-19                130.01
720 ILCS 2-20                130.01
720 ILCS 5/10-(b)(10)        132.14
720 ILCS 5/10-1              132.14
720 ILCS 5/10-2              132.14
720 ILCS 5/10-3              132.14
720 ILCS 5/10-3.1            132.14
720 ILCS 5/10-5(b)(10)       132.14
720 ILCS 5/10-7              132.14
720 ILCS 5/11-6              132.14
720 ILCS 5/11-9.1            132.14
720 ILCS 5/11-15.1           132.14
720 ILCS 5/11-18.1           132.14
720 ILCS 5/11-19.2           132.14
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1           132.14
720 ILCS 5/11-22             132.13
720 ILCS 5/12-13             132.14
720 ILCS 5/12-14             132.14
720 ILCS 5/12-14.1           132.14
720 ILCS 5/12-16             132.14
720 ILCS 5/16-1              134.04
720 ILCS 5/21-1              133.05
720 ILCS 5/21-1.1            133.04
720 ILCS 5/25-1              132.02
720 ILCS 5/26-1              132.05
720 ILCS 5/31-1              131.04
720 ILCS 5/31-6(C)           131.03
720 ILCS 5/31-7              131.03
720 ILCS 5/31-8              131.05
720 ILCS 5/32-5.1            131.02
720 ILCS 5/32-9              133.06
720 ILCS 5/47-5              93.06
720 ILCS 5/47-10             93.06;
                             93.37
720 ILCS 5/47-15             93.06
720 ILCS 5/119               132.14
720 ILCS 505/1               133.12
720 ILCS 550/11              132.11
720 ILCS 550/12              132.11
720 ILCS 555/1               135.16
720 ILCS 605/1               133.09
720 ILCS 675/1               135.02
720 ILCS 680-1 et seq.       135.02
730 ILCS 5/5-5-5(b)          31.03
730 ILCS 150/1 et seq.       132.14
730 ILCS 152/101 et seq.     132.99
740 ILCS 5/21-1.2 et seq.    135.01
740 ILCS 55/221—55/222     93.01
740 ILCS 115/1 et seq.       135.01
740 ILCS 115/4               135.01
745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.    31.05
745 ILCS 10/9-107            35.20
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code               2024 Code
1-1-20                   10.99
1-1-21                   10.99
1-1-22                   10.99
1-1-23                   10.99
1-1-24                   10.99
1-1-25                   10.99
1-2-1                    30.20
1-2-2                    30.35
1-2-3                    30.35
1-2-4                    30.22
1-2-5                    30.22
1-2-6                    30.36
1-2-7                    30.37
1-2-11                   30.38
1-2-12                   30.39
1-2-13                   30.40
1-2-14                   30.55—
                         30.57
1-2-15                   30.58
1-2-16                   30.59
1-2-19                   11.03
1-2-20                   31.01
1-2-21                   30.23
1-2-22                   31.02
1-2-23                   31.07
1-2-24                   31.03
1-2-25                   31.04
1-2-26                   31.05
1-2-27                   36.01
1-2-28                   31.06
1-2-29                   36.03
1-2-30                   11.04
1-2-31                   31.41
1-2-32                   11.03
1-2-33                   31.42
1-2-34                   36.02
1-2-35                   30.21
1-2-36                   11.02
1-2-38                   31.07
1-2-39                   31.07
1-2-40                   31.07
1-2-41                   30.02
1-2-42                   30.24
1-2-43                   31.08
1-2-44                   31.07
1-2-45                   31.07
1-2-50                   30.01
1-2-51                   30.02
1-2-52                   30.01
1-2-53                   30.03
1-2-54                   30.04
1-2-55                   30.04
1-2-56                   30.05
1-2-57                   30.06
1-2-58                   30.07
1-2-59                   30.08
1-2-60                   30.08
1-2-61                   30.08
1-2-62                   30.09
1-2-66                   31.20
1-2-67                   31.20
1-2-68                   31.20
1-2-69                   31.20
1-2-70                   31.20
1-2-71                   31.20
1-2-72                   31.20
1-2-73                   31.20
1-2-74                   31.20
1-2-75                   31.20
1-2-76                   31.20
1-2-77                   31.20
1-2-78                   31.20
1-2-79                   31.20
1-2-80                   31.21
1-2-82                   31.22
1-2-83                   31.22
1-2-84                   31.22
1-2-85                   31.22
1-2-86                   31.22
1-2-87                   31.22
1-2-88                   31.22
1-2-89                   31.22
1-2-90                   31.22
1-2-91                   31.22
1-2-92                   31.22
1-2-93                   31.22
1-2-94                   31.22
1-2-95                   31.22
1-2-98                   31.23
1-2-99                   31.23
1-2-100                  31.23
1-2-104                  31.24
1-2-105                  31.24
1-2-108                  31.25
1-2-109                  31.25
1-2-110                  31.25
1-2-111                  31.25
1-2-115                  31.26
1-2-116                  31.26
1-2-117                  31.26
1-2-118                  31.26
1-3-1                    31.27
1-4-1                    31.40
1-4-2                    31.40
1-5-1                    30.41
1-5-2                    30.41
1-5-3                    30.41
1-5-4                    30.41
1-5-5                    30.41
1-5-6                    30.41
1-5-7                    30.41
1-5-8                    30.41
1-5-11                   30.42
1-5-12                   30.42
1-5-13                   30.42
1-5-14                   30.42
1-6-1                    11.01
Chapter 1, Addendum A    30.42
3-1-1                    90.01
3-1-2                    90.02
3-1-3                    90.03
3-1-4                    90.04
3-1-5                    90.05
3-1-6                    90.06
3-1-7                    90.07
3-1-8                    90.08
3-1-9                    90.09
3-1-10                   90.10;
                         90.99
3-1-11                   90.11
3-2-1                    90.25
3-2-2                    90.26
3-2-3                    90.26
3-2-4                    90.26
3-2-5                    90.26
3-2-6                    90.26
3-2-7                    90.27
3-2-8                    90.29
3-2-9                    90.30
3-2-10                   90.31
3-2-11                   90.29
3-2-12                   90.29
3-2-13                   90.30
3-2-14                   90.28
3-2-15                   90.32
3-2-16                   90.32
3-2-17                   90.33
3-2-18                   90.34
3-2-19                   90.51
3-3-1                    90.50
3-3-2                    90.51
3-3-3                    90.52
3-3-4                    90.53
3-3-5                    90.54
3-3-6                    90.55
3-3-7                    90.56
3-4-1                    90.35
3-4-2                    90.35
7-1-1                    110.01
7-1-2                    110.03
7-1-3                    110.03
7-1-4                    110.04
7-1-5                    110.02
7-1-6                    110.05
7-1-7                    110.06
7-1-8                    110.07
7-1-9                    110.08
7-1-10                   110.09
7-1-11                   110.10
7-2-1                    110.25
7-2-2                    110.26
7-2-3                    110.27
7-2-4                    110.27
7-2-5                    110.28
7-2-6                    110.29
7-2-7                    110.30
7-2-8                    110.31
7-2-9                    110.31
7-2-10                   110.32
7-2-11                   110.34
7-2-12                   110.33
7-3-1                    112.01
7-3-2                    112.02
7-3-3                    112.02
7-3-4                    112.05
7-3-5                    112.03
7-3-6                    112.04
7-3-7                    112.06
7-4-1                    111.01
7-4-2                    111.02
7-4-3                    111.03
7-4-4                    111.04
7-4-5                    111.05
7-4-6                    111.06
7-4-7                    111.06
7-4-8                    111.07
7-5-1                    112.20
7-5-2                    112.21
7-5-3                    112.22
7-5-4                    112.23
7-5-5                    112.24
7-5-6                    112.24
7-5-7                    112.25
7-5-8                    112.26
7-5-9                    112.27
7-5-10                   112.28
7-6-1                    113.01
7-6-2                    113.02
7-6-3                    113.25
7-6-4                    113.26
7-6-5                    113.06
7-6-6                    113.27
7-6-7                    113.28
7-6-8                    113.29
7-6-9                    113.29
7-6-10                   113.29
7-6-11                   113.30
7-6-12                   113.31
7-6-13                   113.06
7-6-14                   113.07
7-6-15                   113.08
7-6-16                   113.09
7-6-17                   113.10
8-1-1                    114.01
8-1-2                    114.02
8-1-3                    114.03
8-1-4                    114.04
8-1-5                    114.05
8-1-6                    114.06
8-1-7                    114.07
8-2-1                    114.08
8-2-2                    114.08
8-2-3                    114.08
8-2-4                    114.99
9-1-1                    96.01
9-1-2                    96.02
9-1-3                    96.02
9-1-4                    96.03
9-1-5                    96.04
9-1-6                    96.05
9-1-7                    96.05
9-1-8                    96.05
9-1-9                    96.05
9-2-1                    96.06
9-2-2                    96.06
9-2-3                    96.06
9-2-4                    96.06
9-2-5                    96.06
9-2-6                    96.06
21-1-1                   115.001
21-2-1                   115.015
21-2-2                   115.016
21-2-3                   115.017
21-2-4                   115.017
21-2-5                   115.018
21-2-6                   115.019
21-2-7                   115.021
21-2-8                   115.020
21-2-9                   115.020
21-2-10                  115.022
21-2-11                  115.023
21-2-12                  115.086
21-2-13                  115.085
21-2-33                  115.068
21-3-1                   115.035
21-3-2                   115.036
21-3-3                   115.036
21-3-4                   115.036
21-3-5                   115.071
21-3-6                   115.071
21-3-7                   115.071
21-3-8                   115.036
21-3-9                   115.035
21-3-10                  115.060
21-3-11                  115.061
21-3-12                  115.037
21-3-13                  115.037
21-3-14                  115.037
21-3-15                  115.062
21-3-16                  115.063
21-3-17                  115.064
21-3-18                  115.039
21-3-19                  115.040
21-3-20                  115.065
21-3-21                  115.041
21-3-22                  115.042
21-3-23                  115.066
21-3-24                  115.043
21-3-25                  115.046
21-3-27                  115.087
21-3-28                  115.088
21-3-29                  115.038
21-3-30                  115.066
21-3-31                  115.066
21-3-32                  115.067
21-3-34                  115.069
21-4-1                   115.044
21-4-2                   115.045
21-4-3                   115.024
21-4-4                   115.024
21-4-5                   115.070
21-4-6                   115.089
21-4-7                   115.024
21-4-8                   115.085
21-4-9                   115.090
21-4-10                  115.091;
                         115.999
21-4-11                  115.091
21-4-12                  115.092
21-4-13                  115.092
Chapter 22, Article I    36.04
Chapter 22, Article II   31.43
Chapter 22, Article III  36.05
22-4-1                   94.01
22-4-2                   94.02
22-4-3                   94.03
22-4-4                   94.99
22-5-1                   34.01
22-5-2                   34.01
22-5-3                   34.01
22-5-4                   34.01
22-5-5                   34.02
22-5-6                   34.03
22-5-7                   34.04
22-5-8                   34.05
22-5-9                   34.06
22-5-10                  34.06
22-5-11                  34.07
22-5-12                  34.07
22-5-13                  34.08
22-5-14                  34.09
22-5-15                  34.09
22-5-16                  34.01
22-6-1                   31.44
Chapter 22, Article VII  31.45
Chapter 22, Article VIII 31.46
Chapter 22, Article IX   31.47
Chapter 22, Article X    31.48
Chapter 22, Article XI   31.49
Chapter 22, Article XII  31.50
Chapter 22, Article XIII 31.51
23-1-1                   154.01
23-1-2                   154.02
23-1-3                   154.02
23-1-4                   154.02
23-1-5                   154.03
23-1-6                   154.06
23-1-7                   154.03
23-1-8                   154.05
23-1-9                   154.04
23-1-10                  154.07
23-1-11                  154.07
23-1-19                  154.27
23-2-1                   154.08
23-2-2                   154.08
23-2-3                   154.08
23-2-4                   154.08
23-3-1                   154.20
23-3-2                   154.21
23-3-3                   154.21
23-3-4                   154.21
23-3-5                   154.21
23-3-6                   154.21
23-3-7                   154.21
23-3-10                  154.22
23-3-11                  154.22
23-3-12                  154.23
23-3-13                  154.24
23-3-17                  154.25
23-3-18                  154.26
23-3-21                  154.28
24-1-1                   70.01
24-2-1                   70.03
24-2-3                   70.04;
                         72.03
24-2-4                   70.04
24-2-5                   70.04
24-2-6                   70.04
24-2-7                   70.02
24-2-8                   70.05
24-3-1                   70.06
24-3-2                   70.06
24-3-3                   70.06
24-3-4                   70.06
24-3-5                   70.06
24-4-1                   71.01
24-4-2                   71.20-
                         71.26
24-4-3                   71.02
24-4-4                   71.03
24-4-5                   71.04
24-4-6                   71.04
24-4-7                   71.04
24-4-8                   71.04
24-4-9                   71.04
24-5-1                   70.07
24-5-2                   70.07
24-5-3                   70.07
24-5-4                   70.07
24-6-1                   72.01
24-6-2                   72.02
24-6-4                   72.04
24-6-5                   72.05
24-6-6                   71.05
24-6-7                   72.06
24-6-8                   70.99
24-6-9                   72.07
24-6-10                  72.08
24-6-11                  72.07
24-7-1                   92.01
24-7-2                   92.02
24-7-3                   92.03
24-7-4                   92.04
24-7-5                   92.05
24-7-6                   92.06
24-7-7                   92.07
24-7-8                   92.08
24-7-9                   92.08
24-7-10                  92.09
24-7-11                  92.08
24-7-12                  92.08
24-7-13                  92.10
24-7-14                  92.11
24-7-15                  92.99
24-8-1                   70.08
24-8-2                   70.08
24-8-3                   70.08
24-8-4                   70.08
24-8-5                   70.08
24-8-6                   70.08
24-8-7                   70.08
24-8-8                   70.08
Chapter 24, Schedule A   Chapter 73, Schedule I
Chapter 24, Schedule E   Chapter 73, Schedule II
Chapter 24, Schedule J   71.05
25-1-1                   93.01
25-1-2                   93.02
25-1-3                   93.03
25-1-4                   93.03
25-1-5                   93.04
25-1-6                   93.05
25-1-7                   93.06
25-2-1                   93.20
25-2-2                   93.21
25-2-3                   93.22
25-2-4                   93.22
25-2-5                   93.22
25-2-6                   93.23
25-2-7                   93.23
25-2-8                   93.23
25-3-1                   93.35
25-3-2                   93.36
25-3-3                   93.36
25-3-4                   93.36
25-3-5                   93.37
25-3-6                   93.37
25-3-7                   93.37
25-4-1                   93.07
25-4-2                   93.07
25-4-3                   93.07
25-4-4                   93.07
25-5-1                   93.08
25-6-1                   93.99
27-1-1                   130.01
27-1-2                   130.02
27-2-1                   131.01
27-2-2                   131.02
27-2-3                   132.01
27-2-4                   132.02
27-2-5                   132.04
27-2-6                   134.01
27-2-7                   135.02
27-2-8                   135.02
27-2-9                   132.06
27-2-10                  131.03
27-2-11                  131.03
27-2-12                  134.02
27-2-13                  133.01
27-2-15                  133.02
27-2-16                  132.10
27-2-17                  132.07
27-2-18                  131.20
27-2-19                  131.21
27-2-20                  133.03
27-2-21                  131.22
27-2-22                  131.23
27-2-23                  133.04
27-2-24                  134.03
27-2-25                  133.12
27-2-26                  132.09
27-2-27                  133.07
27-2-28                  131.24
27-2-29                  133.08
27-2-30                  133.09
27-2-31                  135.16
27-2-32                  132.08
27-2-33                  133.10
27-3-1                   134.04
27-3-2                   133.05
27-3-3                   133.04
27-3-4                   133.04
27-3-5                   133.04
27-3-6                   133.06
27-4-1                   132.05
27-4-2                   131.04
27-4-3                   131.05
27-4-4                   132.03
27-5-1                   133.25
27-5-2                   133.26
27-5-3                   133.27
27-5-4                   133.28
27-5-5                   133.26
27-5-6                   133.29
27-5-7                   133.30
27-5-8                   133.30
27-5-9                   133.31
27-5-10                  133.32
27-5-11                  133.32
27-5-12                  133.33
27-5-13                  133.34
27-5-14                  133.35
27-6-1                   133.11
27-6-2                   133.11
27-7-1                   135.01
27-7-2                   135.01
27-8-1                   135.15
27-8-2                   135.17
27-8-3                   135.18
27-8-4                   135.19
27-8-5                   135.20
27-8-6                   135.99
27-8-7                   135.21
27-9-1                   91.01
27-9-2                   91.02
27-9-3                   91.03
27-11-1                  113.01
27-11-2                  113.02
27-11-3                  113.03
27-11-4                  113.04
27-11-5                  113.05
27-12-1                  132.13
27-12-2                  135.03
27-12-3                  132.13
Chapter 27, Article XIII 36.06
27-14-1                  132.11;
                         132.99
27-14-2                  132.11;
                         132.99
27-15-1                  132.14
27-15-2                  132.14
27-15-3                  132.99
27-15-4                  132.14
27-16-1                  132.12
27-16-2                  132.12
27-16-3                  132.12
27-16-4                  132.12
27-16-5                  132.99
28-1-1                   95.15
28-1-2                   95.16
28-1-3                   95.17
28-1-4                   95.18
28-1-5                   95.19
28-1-6                   95.20
28-1-7                   95.21
28-1-8                   95.22
28-1-9                   95.23
28-1-10                  95.02
28-1-11                  95.03
28-1-12                  95.03
28-1-13                  95.03
28-1-14                  95.01
30-1-1                   33.01
30-1-2                   33.02
30-1-3                   33.03
30-1-4                   33.04
30-1-5                   33.05
30-1-6                   33.05
30-2-1                   32.15
30-2-2                   32.17
30-2-3                   32.17
30-2-4                   32.18
30-2-5                   32.20
30-2-6                   32.21
30-2-7                   32.16
30-2-8                   32.18
30-2-9                   32.23
30-2-10                  32.01
30-2-11                  32.21
30-2-12                  32.24
30-2-13                  32.01
30-2-14                  32.22
30-2-15                  32.23
30-2-16                  32.17
30-2-17                  32.19
30-2-18                  32.02
30-2-19                  32.18
30-3-1                   33.21
30-3-2                   33.21
30-3-3                   33.20
30-3-4                   33.22
30-3-5                   33.23
30-3-6                   33.33
30-3-7                   33.24
30-3-8                   33.34
30-3-9                   33.25
30-3-10                  33.26
30-3-11                  33.21
30-3-12                  33.30
30-3-13                  33.31
30-3-14                  33.31
30-3-15                  33.27
30-3-16                  33.28
30-3-18                  33.29
30-3-19                  33.23
30-3-20                  33.33
30-3-21                  33.31
30-3-22                  33.35
30-3-23                  33.99
33-1-1                   151.01
33-1-2                   151.01
33-2-1                   151.02
33-2-2                   151.20
33-2-3                   151.08
33-2-4                   151.21
33-2-5                   151.03
33-2-6                   151.27
33-2-7                   151.29
33-2-8                   151.30
33-2-9                   151.28
33-2-10                  151.04
33-2-11                  151.28
33-2-12                  151.28
33-2-13                  151.22
33-2-14                  151.23
33-2-15                  151.23
33-2-16                  151.24
33-2-17                  151.25
33-2-18                  151.26
33-2-19                  151.05
33-3-1                   152.01
33-3-2                   152.01
33-3-3                   152.02
33-3-4                   152.02
33-3-5                   152.03
33-3-6                   152.04
33-3-7                   152.05
33-3-8                   152.06
33-4-1                   153.001
33-4-2                   153.002
33-4-3                   153.020
33-4-4                   153.021
33-4-5                   153.022
33-4-6                   153.023
33-4-7                   153.024
33-4-8                   153.025
33-4-9                   153.026
33-4-10                  153.026
33-4-11                  153.027
33-4-12                  153.028
33-4-13                  153.065
33-4-14                  153.003
33-4-15                  153.045—
                         153.051
                         153.052;
33-4-16                  153.066—
                         153.079
33-4-17                  153.004
33-4-18                  153.053
33-4-19                  153.005
33-4-20                  153.006
33-4-21                  153.029
33-4-22                  153.999
33-4-23                  153.030
33-5-1                   151.08
33-5-2                   151.08
33-5-3                   151.08
33-6-1                   151.04
33-6-2                   151.04
33-6-3                   151.04
33-6-4                   151.04
33-6-5                   151.04
33-6-6                   151.04
33-6-7                   151.04
33-6-8                   151.04
33-7-1                   151.06
33-7-2                   151.06
33-7-3                   151.06
33-7-4                   151.06
33-7-5                   151.06
33-7-6                   151.06
33-8-1                   150.01
33-8-2                   150.02
33-8-3                   150.03;
                         150.99
33-8-4                   150.04
36-1-1                   35.01
36-1-2                   35.15
36-1-3                   35.16
36-1-4                   35.17
36-1-5                   35.02
36-1-6                   35.18
36-1-7                   35.19
36-1-8                   35.20
36-1-9                   35.21
36-2-1                   35.50
36-2-2                   35.50
36-2-3                   35.51
36-2-4                   35.52
36-2-5                   35.52
36-2-6                   35.52
36-2-7                   35.53
36-2-8                   35.54
36-2-9                   35.55
36-2-10                  35.55
36-2-11                  35.56
36-2-12                  35.56
36-2-13                  35.56
36-2-14                  35.57
36-2-15                  35.58
36-2-16                  35.59
36-2-17                  35.60
36-2-18                  35.50
36-3-1                   35.35
36-3-2                   35.36
36-3-3                   35.37
36-3-4                   35.38
36-3-5                   35.39
36-4-1                   35.21
36-4-2                   35.21
36-4-3                   35.21
36-4-4                   35.21
36-4-5                   35.22
36-4-6                   35.22
36-4-7                   35.99
38-1-1                   50.01
38-1-2                   50.01
38-1-3                   50.02
38-1-4                   50.02
38-2-1                   50.03;
                         50.99
38-2-2                   50.04
38-2-3                   50.05
38-2-4                   50.05
38-2-5                   50.06
38-2-6                   50.07
38-2-7                   50.08
38-3-1                   51.001
38-3-2                   51.040
38-3-3                   51.041
38-3-4                   51.002
38-3-5                   51.003
38-3-6                   51.020
38-3-7                   51.021
38-3-8                   51.002
38-3-9                   51.042
38-3-10                  51.004
38-3-11                  51.043
38-3-12                  51.005
38-3-13                  51.044
38-3-14                  51.006
38-3-15                  51.022
38-3-16                  51.023
38-3-17                  51.007
38-3-18                  51.043
38-3-19                  51.024
38-3-20                  51.024
38-3-21                  51.024
38-3-22                  51.045
38-3-23                  51.047
38-3-24                  51.046
38-3-25                  51.008
38-3-26                  51.025
38-3-31                  52.01
38-3-32                  52.02
38-3-33                  52.03
38-3-34                  52.04
38-3-35                  52.05
38-3-36                  52.06
38-3-41                  52.20
38-3-42                  52.20
38-3-43                  52.22
38-3-44                  52.21
38-3-45                  52.23
38-3-46                  52.24
38-3-47                  52.25
38-3-48                  52.26
38-3-49                  52.26
38-3-50                  52.27
38-3-51                  52.28
38-3-52                  52.29
38-3-53                  52.30
38-3-61                  51.060
38-3-62                  51.061
38-3-63                  51.062
38-3-64                  51.063
38-3-65                  51.063
38-3-66                  51.064
38-3-67                  51.065
38-3-70                  51.080
38-3-71                  51.081
38-3-72                  51.081
38-3-73                  51.082
38-3-74                  51.083
38-3-75                  51.084
38-3-76                  51.085
38-3-77                  51.086
38-3-78                  51.087
38-3-79                  51.087
38-3-80                  51.088
38-4-1                   53.001
38-4-4                   53.002
38-4-5                   53.002
38-4-6                   53.002
38-4-7                   53.002
38-4-10                  53.003
38-4-11                  53.003
38-4-12                  53.003
38-4-13                  53.003
38-4-14                  53.003
38-4-15                  53.003
38-4-16                  53.003
38-4-21                  53.005
38-4-22                  53.020
38-4-23                  53.022
38-4-24                  53.023
38-4-25                  53.035
38-4-26                  53.036
38-4-27                  53.037
38-4-28                  53.037
38-4-29                  53.037
38-4-30                  53.038
38-4-31                  53.039
38-4-32                  53.040
38-4-33                  53.041
38-4-34                  53.041
38-4-35                  53.020
38-4-36                  53.042
38-4-37                  53.024
38-4-38                  53.043
38-4-42                  53.004
38-4-43                  53.004
38-4-44                  53.004
38-4-45                  53.004
38-4-46                  53.004
38-4-49                  53.055
38-4-50                  53.055
38-4-51                  53.056
38-4-52                  53.057
38-4-53                  53.058
38-4-54                  53.059
38-4-55                  53.060
38-4-56                  53.061
38-4-57                  53.062
38-4-58                  53.062
38-4-59                  53.063
38-4-65                  53.021
38-4-66                  53.021
38-4-67                  53.021
38-4-68                  53.021
38-4-71                  53.075
38-4-72                  53.076
38-4-73                  53.076
38-4-74                  53.077
38-4-75                  53.077
38-4-76                  53.078
38-4-77                  53.079
38-4-78                  53.080
38-4-79                  53.081
38-4-80                  53.081
38-4-81                  53.082
38-4-82                  53.083
38-4-91                  50.99
38-4-92                  50.99
38-4-93                  50.99
                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed 2024 Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed 2024 Code Section
240      8-12-1957   71.05
96-1     3-11-1996   96.06
-        8-14-2000   94.99
02-09    8-12-2002   135.16
                     93.06;
02-11    10-11-2004  93.23;
                     93.37
02-08    4-10-2006   35.39
14-04    7-8-2013    53.083
14-09    3-10-2014   150.04
14-11    4-14-2014   70.08
14-12    4-14-2014   91.03
14-15    4-14-2014   93.36
14-22    11-9-2015   115.021
15-22    11-9-2015   115.018
24-02    6-12-2023   30.35
24-04    12-11-2023  31.52
24-05    12-11-2023  133.09;
                     133.99
                    
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the City
of Creal Springs. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained in
PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2025,
please contact the City of Creal Springs.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
2025 Ordinances
2025 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
24-09    8-12-2024 Occupation tax
                   Ordinance amending Water Service Connection charges
24-10    12-9-2024  
                   Section 51.087
                  
                  
 
 
