VILLAGE OF CRESTWOOD, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-13 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2775, passed 5-15-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2057 (2011)
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
THE VILLAGE CODE OF CRESTWOOD, ILLINOIS
   WHEREAS, the Village has previously undertaken a codification of the
ordinances of the Village utilizing the services of American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, Copyright 2011; and
   WHEREAS, the aforesaid American Legal Publishing Corporation has rendered a
codification book to the Village of the ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Village authorities, after reviewing the codification as
presented, wish to approve the codification except as noted herein.
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Village Mayor and Board of Trustees of
the Village of Crestwood, County of Cook, State of Illinois, an Illinois
municipal corporation, as follows:
SECTION ONE
CODIFICATION ADOPTED
   From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village Code of
the Village of Crestwood, prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation,
containing the compilation of ordinances as a general nature, together with
changes made to the said ordinances under the direction of the governing body
of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official Code and law of the Village as enacted by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
SECTION TWO
EXCEPTION TO CODIFICATION
   The Village may in the future identify scrivener's errors, which may be
excepted from the Codification by future ordinances.
SECTION THREE
PERPETUAL CODIFICATION
   There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the loose-
leaf type of binding, together with continuous supplement services provided by
American Legal Publishing Corporation, or
such other code codifier printer chosen by the Village, whereby each newly
adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding
or deleting provisions of the official Village Code is identified by proper
catch line as inserted in the proper place in each of the Village copies, three
copies of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk,
certified as to the correctness and available for inspection at any and all
times that the said office is regularly open. The Village Clerk is hereby
authorized and may publish updates to the Code as supplied by American Legal
Publishing Corporation on the Village website, as updated from time to time.
SECTION FOUR
ORDINANCES EXCLUDED FROM CODIFICATION
   All ordinances of a general nature included in this Village Code shall be
considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision, and the fact that
some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body shall
not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said Village Code. All ordinances of a special nature,
such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchise ordinances, annexation
ordinances, vacation ordinances, special use ordinances and the like, shall
remain in full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by
provision of the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included
in the Official Village Code.
SECTION FIVE
UNAUTHORIZED DELETIONS
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend,
by additions or deletions, any portion of such Code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any such
manner which shall cause the law of the Village to be misrepresented thereby.
SECTION SIX
REPEAL CONFLICT OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
   Subject to the provisions of Section Four, all ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
SECTION SEVEN
FULL FORCE AND EFFECT AFTER PASSAGE
   This Ordinance and the Code, adopted by this Ordinance shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with the
law as printed and published in the book form by order of the Mayor and Board
of Trustees.
   Passed and approved this 6th day of October, 2011.
         Ayes: 6 Nays: 0 Absent: 0
Trustees:   Ronald Wasag
         James Fowler
         Louis Presta
         Victor Hirsch
         Patricia T. Flynn
         John Z. Toscas
                                 Nancy C. Benedetto /s/
                                 NANCY C. BENEDETTO
                                 Village Clerk
APPROVED by me as Mayor this
6th day of October, 2011.
Robert Stranczek /s/
ROBERT STRANCZEK
Mayor
                                 ATTESTED and filed in my office
                                 this 6th day of October, 2011.
                                 Nancy C. Benedetto /s/
                                 NANCY C. BENEDETTO
                                 Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VIOLATIONS OF VILLAGE ORDINANCES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Crestwood, Illinois, shall be
designated as the Code of Crestwood and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes suits, prosecutions and all judicial proceedings.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or impliedly, to do so.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons, but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD. Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the village.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   CODE. The Village Code of Crestwood, amendments thereto.
   COUNTY. The County of Cook, State of Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Cook County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Includes all courts of record; construed to mean any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Crestwood”.
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the village, including for the conduct of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 of each
year and end on April 30 of the year following.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 2011, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   IN THE VILLAGE or WITHIN THE VILLAGE. Includes all territory over which the
village now has or shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its
police powers or other regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more
public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the authority to
a majority of the officers or persons.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. The word KNOWINGLY imports only a knowledge that the facts exist
which brings the act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does
not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of the act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the conduct of a business, profession or
occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Village of Crestwood.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense as defined by state law.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   NEGLIGENT. The word NEGLIGENT, as well as NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE and
NEGLIGENTLY imports a want of the attention to the nature or probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent human ordinarily bestows in
acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
persons in the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the village.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OCCUPANT or TENANT. Applied to a building or land, means any person who
holds a written or an oral lease of or actually occupies the whole or a part of
such building or land, either alone or with others.
   OFFENSE. An act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Crestwood”.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OR or AND. “Or” may be read “and” and “and” may be read “or” if the sense
requires it.
   OWNER.
      (1)   As applied to a building or land, shall include a trustee, trust
beneficiary and any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or
lessee of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      (2)   When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the village.
POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the employ of a
village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to the consumer.
   SEAL. The seal of the Village of Crestwood.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the state of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right for purposes of traffic.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Crestwood.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another
or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, ILCS Ch. 815, Act 333, §§ 1 et seq. 
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday, as defined or fixed in any statute now
or hereafter in force in the state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or, in any
way, affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system
of this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, subchapters, sections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances,
the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission from
reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and
printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent ordinances
numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the Board of
Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof; every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of the
village code, any license previously issued to him or her by the village may be
revoked as provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   The penalty provided herein shall be applicable to every section of
the village code, the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
section. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day the duty or
obligation remains unperformed or the act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in the village code. In all cases where the same offense
is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of the
village code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided that, the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced;
and providing, further, that, this section shall, in no way, bar multiple
prosecutions for violations of more than one section of this code. Whenever the
doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any
section or provision of the village code and there shall be no fine or penalty
specifically declared for the breach, the provisions of this section shall
apply, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a breach or violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   No provision of the village code designating the duties of any officer
or employee shall be so construed as to make the officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform the duty, unless the
intention of the Mayor and Board of Trustees to impose the fine or penalty on
the officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
   (E)   (1)   Issuance of citation. Whenever a police officer is authorized to
arrest a person without a warrant because of a violation of an ordinance in
respect of any of the following subjects, the police officer may file a
complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook County or proceed in accordance with the
provisions of
Chapter 11, Administrative Adjudication:
         (a)   Parking violations;
         (b)   Requiring the purchase and display of a vehicle sticker;
         (c)   Regulating and licensing dogs; or
         (d)   Regulating and licensing businesses.
      (2)   Vehicle ownership; prima facie proof. The fact that an automobile
or motor vehicle which is illegally operated or parked is registered with the
Secretary of State in the name of the alleged violator, or in the alternative,
in the event that a vehicle sticker issued by a municipality has been issued in
the name of and to the alleged violator, shall be considered prima facie proof
that the alleged violator was in the control of or was the operator of the
automobile or motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-5)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VIOLATIONS OF VILLAGE ORDINANCES
Section
   
11.01   Purpose
   
11.02   Creation
   
11.03   Administrative composition
   
11.04   Notice of violation
   
11.05   Service and notice of hearing
   
11.06   Administrative hearings
   
11.07   Final determination of liability
   
11.08   Judicial review
   
11.09   Judgment on findings, decision and order; enforcement
   
11.10   Schedule of fines/penalties
   
11.11   Failure to appear, notice
   
11.12   Impending suspension of drivers license, notice
   
11.13   Immobilization/towing and impoundment of motor vehicles
   
11.14   Request for hearing in the case of towing and impoundment of motor
vehicles
   
11.15   Notice affixed to vehicle in cases of immobilization
   
11.16   Towing of immobilized vehicle
   
11.17   Post-impoundment notice
   
11.18   Hearing in case of vehicle immobilization
   
11.19   Fines and fees for immobilization
   
11.20   Towing services
   
11.21   Eviction, rights of occupants
   
11.22   Defenses to building code violations
   
11.23   Sanctions applicable to the building owner
   
11.24   Federal government contracts under the building code
§ 11.01 PURPOSE.
   The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for fair and efficient
enforcement of village ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance through an administrative adjudication of violations of the village
ordinances and establishing a schedule of fines and penalties, and authority
and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and penalties.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.02 CREATION.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the municipal
government to be known as the Village of Crestwood Ordinance Enforcement
Department to have the power to enforce compliance with all municipal
ordinances as from time to time authorized by the Board of Trustees (ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq.) and any offense under the Illinois Building Code
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq.), but not any offense under the
Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation
governing the movement of vehicles and except for any reportable offense under
§ 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.)
The establishment of the Village of Crestwood Ordinance Enforcement Department
does not preclude the Mayor and Board of Trustees from using any other method
to enforce ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.03 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Composition. The Village of Crestwood Ordinance Enforcement Department
shall be composed of a Hearing Officer, an Ordinance Enforcement Administrator,
System Coordinator/Computer Operator and other personnel hereinafter appointed,
with the power and authority as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Hearing Officers, appointment. The Mayor is hereby authorized to
appoint all Hearing Officers of this village with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees. The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint all other persons
to hold the positions hereinafter set forth below, and other personnel as
needed. Other than the Hearing Officer, one person may hold and fulfill the
requirements of one or more of the above stated positions, and compensation for
each of the hereinafter stated positions shall be as approved by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Hearing Officer.  
      (1)   The Hearing Officer shall preside over all adjudicatory hearings
and shall have the following powers and duties:
         (a)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether
or not a code violation exists.
         (b)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the Village Code violation;
         (c)   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
         (d)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
         (e)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a Village Code violation exists; and
         (f)   Impose penalties, sanctions or such other relief consistent with
applicable Village Code provisions, and assess costs upon finding a party
liable for the charged violation, except however, that in no event shall the
Hearing Officer have authority to impose a penalty of incarceration.
      (2)   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings under
this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall have successfully completed a formal
training program which includes the following:
         (a)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings over which the Hearing Officer shall preside;
         (b)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that he
or she will adjudicate;
         (c)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
         (d)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on
evidence and issuing final orders.
      (3)   A Hearing Officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Illinois for at least three years.
   (D)   Ordinance Enforcement Administrator. The Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator is authorized and directed to:
      (1)   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
village ordinance violations as may be permitted by law and directed by
ordinance.
      (2)   Adopt, distribute, and process all notices as may be required under
this chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this
chapter.
      (3)   Collect moneys paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a
final determination of liability.
      (4)   Certify copies of final determinations of an ordinance violation
adjudicated pursuant to this chapter, and any factual reports verifying the
final determination of any violation liability which was issued in accordance
with this chapter, the laws of the State of Illinois, including ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-208.3, as from time to time amended.
      (5)   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter as hereinafter set forth, and those of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5.
      (6)   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
      (7)   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies and pursuit of all post-judgment remedies available by current law.
   (E)   System Coordinator/Computer Operator. The System Coordinator/Computer
Operator is hereby authorized and directed to operate and maintain the computer
programs for the administrative adjudication system of the Village of Crestwood
Ordinance Enforcement Department hereby created, on a day-to-day basis,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Input of violation notice information.
      (2)   Establishing court dates and notice dates.
      (3)   Record fine and penalty assessment and payments.
      (4)   Issue payment receipts.
      (5)   Issue succeeding notice of hearing dates and/or final determination
of liability; issue notice of immobilization; issue notice of impending
impoundment; issue notice of impending driver's license suspension, as directed
by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator in accordance with the provisions
hereinafter set forth.
      (6)   Keep accurate records of appearances and non-appearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, judgments entered, sanctions imposed,
if any, and fines and penalties assessed and paid.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 was repealed by P.A. 101-652, effective 7-1-
21.
§ 11.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
    The system of administrative adjudication of any village ordinance
violation authorized to be adjudicated hereunder shall be in accordance with
the following procedures:
   (A)   Violation notice of any ordinance violation including violations of
the Traffic Code, Title VII of the Village Code of Crestwood, Illinois
(hereafter referred to as “the Code”), other than any offense under the
Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation
governing the movement of vehicles and except for any reportable offense under
§ 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (hereinafter the “Village Traffic Code”),
shall be issued by the persons authorized under this Code and shall contain
information and shall be certified and constitute prima facie evidence of the
violation cited as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   All full-time, part-time and auxiliary police officers, as well as
other specifically authorized individuals of any village department, shall have
the authority to issue violation notices.
   (C)   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
detects an ordinance violation authorized to be adjudicated under this chapter
or a violation of any section of any village ordinance, is authorized to issue
a notice of violation thereof and shall make service thereof as is hereinafter
set forth.
   (D)   The violation notice shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the party violating the ordinance, if
known.
      (2)   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      (3)   The type and nature of the ordinance violated.
      (4)   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
      (5)   The penalty which may be assessed for failure to appear.
      (6)   The names and witnesses of the violation.
      (7)   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
      (8)   The docket number, date, and location of the adjudicating hearing
of ordinance violations, if applicable, other than violations of the Traffic
Code, the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be
held, and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.
   (E)   The date of the hearing shall not be less than 30 nor more than 40
days after the violation is reported.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.05 SERVICE AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Service of any violation notice shall be made by the person issuing
the notice:
      (1)   In the case of violation of the Village Traffic Code, service shall
be made by:
         (a)   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an
unlawfully standing or parked vehicle, unstickered vehicle; or a vehicle
violating any compliance regulation;
         (b)   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee
of the vehicle, if present; or
         (c)   Mailing the notice by first class mail to the person responsible
for the ordinance violation, along with a summons commanding the individual to
appear at the hearing.
         (d)   In the case of violation of the Building Code, service shall be
made by:
            1.   First class mail on the owner of the structure, along with a
summons commanding the owner to appear at the hearing;
            2.   If the name of the owner of the structure cannot be
ascertained, or if service on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be
made on the owner by posting or nailing a copy of the notice on the front door
of the structure where the violation is found not less than 20 days before the
hearing is scheduled.
      (2)   In the case of any ordinance violation other than a violation of
the Village Traffic Code or Building Code, service shall be made by mailing the
notice by first class mail to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation, along with a summons commanding the individual to appear at the
hearing.
   (B)   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
verified by the person issuing the notice by:
      (1)   Signing his or her name to the notice at the time of issuance; or
      (2)    In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing
a single certificate, to be kept by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his or her control.
   (C)   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be retained
by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary
course of business.
   (D)   Any violation notice issued, signed, and served in accordance
herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.06 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   An administrative hearing shall be granted for the following:
      (1)   To adjudicate any alleged ordinance violation on its merits.
      (2)   To contest the validity of a notice of impending immobilization or
impending impoundment or the validity of a notice of impending drivers license
suspension. The hearing shall be granted to the registered owner or operator of
the “cited vehicle” pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3, or the lessee
of the “cited vehicle” ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1306 incorporated herein by
reference, and at the date, time and place as is set forth by the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator and served upon the registered owner, operator or
lessee for hearings contesting the validity of notices of impending
immobilization or impending impoundment or drivers license suspension.
   (B)   No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer at the
hearing except where absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the
individual. Lack of preparation does not constitute cause for a continuance. No
continuance may be granted for more than 25 days.
   (C)   All administrative hearings shall be recorded and shall culminate in a
determination of liability or non-liability made by the Hearing Officer, who
shall consider facts and/or testimony without the application of the formal or
technical rules of evidence. Evidence including hearsay, may be admitted only
if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonable prudent persons in the
conduct of their affairs.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess
fines and penalties in accordance with §
11.10 below. Persons appearing to contest the alleged violation on its merits
may be represented by counsel at their own expense. The burden of proof shall
be on the alleged offender to refute the prima facie case set forth in the
verified notice of violation.
   (E)   (1)   Administrative adjudication hearings held pursuant to this
chapter for the year 2025 will be held on the second Thursday of each month, at
the hours of 5:00 p.m., unless otherwise noticed or rescheduled, at the
Crestwood Civic Center, 13820 S. Cicero Avenue, Crestwood, County of Cook, and
State of Illinois.
      (2)   All red light camera hearings will be held on the second Wednesday
of each month, at the hours of 5:00 p.m. unless otherwise noticed or
rescheduled. All red light camera hearings will be held at the Crestwood Civic
Center, 13820 S. Cicero Avenue, Crestwood, County of Cook, and State of
Illinois.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2095, passed 12-6-2012; Ord. 2117, passed 6-
6-2013; Ord. 2128, passed 9-5-2013; Ord. 2140, passed 12-19-2013; Ord. 2269,
passed 12-3-2015; Ord. 2336, passed 12-8-2016; Ord. 2665, passed 12-15-2022;
Ord. 2698, passed 11-2-2023; Ord. 2710, passed 1-4-2024; Ord. 2744, passed 12-
5-2024)
§ 11.07 FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   A final determination of liability shall occur following the failure
to pay the fine or penalty after the Hearing Officer's determination of
liability and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, any administrative
review procedures hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Where a person fails to appear at the administrative hearing to
contest the alleged violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior served or mailed notice pursuant to §
11.13 below, the Hearing Officer's determination of liability shall become
final either upon a denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination, or upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition
without a filing having been made.
   (C)   A notice of final determination of liability shall be sent following
the conclusion of an administrative hearing within five days after the final
determination of liability is made, as is hereinafter set forth, and shall
contain, but not be limited to, the following information and warnings:
      (1)   The Hearing Officer's findings of fact.
      (2)   A decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon the
findings of fact.
      (3)   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the village.
      (4)   A statement of any sanction ordered or costs imposed which costs
are debts due and owing the village.
      (5)   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the village within the time specified may result in proceeding with
collection procedures.
      (6)   A warning that the person's drivers license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten or more vehicular standing or parking
violations under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5, incorporated herein by
reference.
      (7)   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village may be immobilized and impounded for failure to pay fines or
penalties for ten or more vehicular standing or parking regulation violations.
      (8)   Any other warning of possible impoundment as permitted by law or
ordinance.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 was repealed by P.A. 101-652, effective 7-1-
21.
§ 11.08 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
    Any final decision by a Hearing Officer that a code violation does or does
not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-
2.1-4 et seq. and ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.09 JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Illinois
Administrative Review Law (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.) shall be a
debt due and owing the municipality and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.) may
be sought for a final determination of a code violation, unless stayed by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the
Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by a
municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorneys’
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a Hearing Officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing
Officer pursuant to this division (C), the municipality shall provide notice to
the defendant that states that the defendant shall appear at a hearing before
the Hearing Officer to determine whether the defendant has failed to comply
with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a hearing, which
shall not be less than seven days from the date that notice is served. If
notice is served by mail, the seven-day period shall begin to run on the date
that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   (D)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, Art. XII) or by the Uniform Commercial
Code (ILCS Ch. 810, Act 5), a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or
personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and
owing the municipality under this chapter. The lien may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2302, passed 5-5-2016)
§ 11.10 SCHEDULE OF FINES/PENALTIES.
   Fines and penalties shall be imposed in accordance with the Village Code, or
where no fine or penalty is expressed in the Village Code, the Hearing Officer
may impose a fine or penalty according to his or her judgment. However, in no
case may the fines imposed by the Hearing Officer exceed $750 per violation per
day, or a maximum of $2,500 for all Building Code violations.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.11 FAILURE TO APPEAR, NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon failure of the person receiving a notice of a violation of a
village ordinance, other than a Village Traffic Code violation, to appear at
the time and date designated for a hearing, or, in the case of a violation of
the Village Traffic Code, the registered owner, operator, or lessee of the
“cited vehicle” to pay the fine in full as stated on the notice, the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator shall send or cause to be sent notices by first class
mail, postage prepaid to the person who received the notice of an ordinance
violation; or, in the case of the violation of the Village Traffic Code, the
registered owner or operator of the “cited vehicle” at the address as is
recorded with the Secretary of State, and shall be sent to the lessee of the
“cited vehicle” at the address last known to the lessor of the “cited vehicle”
at the time of the lease. Service of notices sent in accordance herewith shall
be complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   (B)   (1)   The notices sent in accordance herewith shall be in the
following sequence and contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (2)   Upon the failure of the person receiving notice of an ordinance
violation or, in the case of a notice of a violation of the Village Traffic
Code, the registered owner, operator, or lessee of the “cited vehicle” to pay
the fine in full as stated on the notice, a notice shall be sent, as above set
forth, and shall contain, but not be limited to the following information:
         (a)   Date and location of violation cited in the violation notice.
         (b)   Particular ordinance violated.
         (c)   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
         (d)   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
         (e)   A section entitled “notice of hearing” which shall clearly set
forth that the person receiving a notice of ordinance violation, in the case of
a violation of the Village Traffic Code, Title VII of this Code, or the
registered owner, operator, or lessee may appear at an administrative hearing
to contest the validity of the violation notice on the date and at the time and
place as specified in the notice of hearing.
         (f)   Date, time, and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
         (g)   Statement that failure to either pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of liability
for the “cited” violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated.
         (h)   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust,
available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or
penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the village.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.12 IMPENDING SUSPENSION OF DRIVERS LICENSE, NOTICE.
   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license shall be
sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine or
penalty that remains due and owing on ten or more vehicular standing or parking
regulation violations:
   (A)   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or penalty
owing within 45 days of the date of the notice will result in the village
notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for initiation of
suspension proceedings under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5, incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   The notice of impending drivers license suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the Secretary
of State.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 was repealed by P.A. 101-652, effective 7-1-
21.
§ 11.13 IMMOBILIZATION/TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has been determined to be liable
for ten or more vehicular standing or parking regulation violation(s) for which
the fines or penalties assessed remain unpaid, may be immobilized, booted, or
towed and impounded if:
   (A)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator has determined that a person
has been determined to be liable for ten or more ordinance violations for which
the fines or penalties remain unpaid.
   (B)   The person determined to be liable for ten or more violations is the
registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the village geographical
boundaries.
   (C)   A seizure notice has been sent to the registered owner of the motor
vehicle located within the geographical boundaries of the village which
contains, but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   That a final determination has been made on ten or more ordinance
violations for which the fines and penalties remain unpaid.
      (2)   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable which shall include for each violation:
         (a)   The ordinance violation notice number;
         (b)   Date of issuance; and
         (c)   Total amount of fines and penalties assessed.
      (3)   That the motor vehicle owned by the person and located within the
village are subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the
fines and penalties are not paid within 15 days of the date of the notice.
      (4)   Date of immobilization.
      (5)   Date of impending towing and impoundment.
      (6)   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the notice by
appearing in person before the Ordinance Administrator within 15 days of the
date of the notice and submitting evidence which would conclusively disprove
liability, such as the following:
         (a)   That the registered owner was not the owner or lessee of the
vehicle on the date or dates the notices of violation were issued; or
         (b)   That the fines or penalties for the violations cited in the
notice were paid in full; or
         (c)   That the registered owner has not accumulated ten or more
ordinance violation notices which are unpaid, not adjudicated or for which no
appearance was made.
   (D)   The motor vehicle of the registered owner to whom notice is sent has
failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the notice and
has failed to appear with evidence to conclusively disprove liability before
the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator to contest the validity of the notice.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.14 REQUEST FOR HEARING IN THE CASE OF TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR
VEHICLES.
   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment, the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next scheduled hearing
date or if sooner scheduled by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator for good
cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than 30 days
after the request for hearing is filed and shall serve notice of the hearing
date upon the registered owner by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing. Service of the notice shall
be complete on the date it is placed in the United States mail.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.15 NOTICE AFFIXED TO VEHICLE IN CASES OF IMMOBILIZATION.
   Upon immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be affixed to the
vehicle in a conspicuous place. The notice shall warn that the vehicle is
immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle may result in its damage.
The notice shall also state that the unauthorized removal of or damage to the
immobilizing restraint is a violation of §§ 16-1 and 21-1 of the Illinois
Criminal Code, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq. The notice also shall
provide the following information specifying that a release of the immobilizing
restraint may be had by:
   (A)   Paying all the fines and penalties, if any, on the outstanding
complaints for which notice has been sent prior to the date of the
immobilization; or
   (B)   Completing appearance forms on all outstanding parking violation
complaints for which notice had been sent prior to the date of the
immobilization and depositing collateral in the amount of 50% of the total
fines for these outstanding parking violation complaints, or $500, whichever is
less.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.16 TOWING OF IMMOBILIZED VEHICLE.
   Except where the vehicle is otherwise subject to towing, if the immobilizing
restraint has not been released as hereinabove provided within 72 hours of its
placement, the vehicle shall be towed and impounded.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.17 POST-IMPOUNDMENT NOTICE.
   Within ten days after a vehicle has been impounded, notice of impoundment
shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the registered
owner of the vehicle. The notice shall state that the owner has the right to a
post-immobilization and post-towing hearing as provided in §
11.15 above and that if the vehicle is not claimed within 30 days from the date
of the notice, the vehicle may be sold or otherwise disposed of in accordance
with the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.18 HEARING IN CASE OF VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION.
   (A)   The owner of an immobilized vehicle or other interested person shall
have the right to a hearing to determine whether the immobilization or any
subsequent towing was erroneous or whether the vehicle was properly included on
an immobilization list, if the owner files a written demand for a hearing
before the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator within 14 days after issuance of
the notice specified in §
11.16 above or within 14 days of immobilization, whichever is later.
   (B)   A hearing shall be conducted on any business day within 48 hours of
receipt of a written demand for hearing, unless otherwise mutually agreed by
the parties. Failure to request or attend a scheduled hearing shall be deemed a
waiver of the right to a hearing. In the event of the failure, any amount
deposited pursuant to §
11.14 above shall be forfeited. A hearing provided by this section shall not
determine the validity of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or notice of
ordinance violation issued relative to the immobilized vehicle, but shall only
relate to whether the vehicle was properly immobilized or towed by determining
whether the owner previously submitted evidence required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.19 FINES AND FEES FOR IMMOBILIZATION.
   The fine for immobilization shall be $60 and the fine for impoundment and
towing shall be an amount not to exceed $500. The owner of the vehicle shall
also be charged reasonable storage and towing fees should the vehicle be
removed to a private storage facility, provided that no fees shall be assessed
for any immobilization or tow which has been determined to be erroneous.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.20 TOWING SERVICES.
   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall appoint or retain the services
of an individual, agency, or company to tow and impound vehicles in accordance
herewith, provided that the individual, agency, or company is fully insured and
licensed according to local or state law and has available a secured impound
area within which to retain vehicles impounded hereunder. For the purpose of
this section a secured area shall mean an area bounded by a fence, chain-link
or otherwise, of a sufficient height and with locking gates so as to minimize
or prevent unauthorized entry into the impounded vehicles.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.21 EVICTION, RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS.
   In the ease of a Building Code violation, no action for eviction, abatement
of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or other similar proceeding shall be
threatened or instituted against an occupant of a dwelling solely because such
occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a code violation hearing.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.22 DEFENSES TO BUILDING CODE VIOLATIONS.
    It shall be a defense to a Building Code violation if the owner, his
attorney, or any other agent or representative proves to the Hearing Officer's
satisfaction that:
   (A)   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist;
   (B)   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the dwelling
free of such violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations;
   (C)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner
or his agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the
code violation.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.23 SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO THE BUILDING OWNER.
   The order to correct a Building Code violation and the sanctions imposed by
a municipality as the result of a finding of a code violation shall attach to
the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a
code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring
the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property
takes subject to the findings, decision, and order of a Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 11.24 FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS UNDER THE BUILDING CODE.
    A person who contracts with the federal government or any of its agencies,
including without limitation the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible for maintaining
the property to prevent and correct municipal health and safety code
violations. A person who violates this section is guilty of a business offense
and shall be fined not less than $501 and not more than $750.
(Ord. 2034, passed 4-21-2011)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
32.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
33.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
35.   FIRE SAFETY
      
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
37.   FINANCES
      
38.   CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND IMPROPER INFLUENCE
      
39.   SEXUAL HARASSMENT
      
40.   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING CLAIMS UNDER THE PUBLIC SAFETY
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ACT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Corporate seal
   
30.02   Election precincts
   
30.03   Datum
   
30.04   Freedom of information
   
30.05   Collection of fees and costs
§ 30.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the village shall consist of a circular imprint
containing the designation, “Village of Crestwood Seal”.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)
§ 30.02 ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   (A)   The village is, for the purpose of conducting village elections,
including primaries for such other purposes as may be provided by law, divided
into precincts pursuant to the State Election Code.
   (B)   The boundaries of the various precincts, and polling places applicable
thereto, shall be as designated in the election ordinances passed and approved
by the Board of Trustees and Mayor prior to any village election, including
primaries for other purposes as may be provided by law.
   (C)   Wherever a street is indicated as the boundary of a precinct, the
center line of the street shall be considered to be the boundary line of the
precinct; provided, however, that, if the street or some part thereof
constitutes some portion or all of the distance for which the street is
hereinabove designated as the boundary of any precinct, then that part of the
street which is the boundary of the village shall also be the boundary of the
precinct, and provided further, that if any streets be not dedicated throughout
the entire distance for which it is indicated as one of the boundary lines of
any precinct, then the prolongation of the center line of the street shall be
considered to be the boundary line.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)
§ 30.03 DATUM.
   All elevations shall be referred to City of Chicago datum.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3)
§ 30.04 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Appointment of Freedom of Information Officer. The Village Board has
determined that due to the complexities of the Act, it is desirable to appoint
an attorney from the office of the Village Attorney as the Freedom of
Information Act Officer. All such appointments shall be by the Mayor, from year
to year, and subject to the posting of bond and oath.
   (B)   Fees for duplication. Except when a fee is otherwise fixed by state
law, the following fees shall be imposed upon the duplication of records in
fulfillment of any request under the Act, after 1-1-2010:
      (1)   For the first 50 pages of letter or legal sized black and white
documents, there shall be no charge;
      (2)   The fee for black and white copies of letter or legal size
documents shall be $.15 per page;
      (3)   The fee for color copies or copies in a size other than letter or
legal shall be $.50 per page for internally generated documents, and the actual
costs for copies sent to outside copying services.
      (4)   The cost for certifying a record shall be $1 for each record
certified. The cost for the certification of multi-page records shall be $1 for
each certification. The cost for multiple certifications of the same record
shall be $1 each.
   (C)   Records available for disclosure. The Village Clerk shall develop a
list of records immediately available for disclosure. The list shall be
updated, from time to time, and available for inspection. The Village Clerk
shall further develop a list or records or categories of records under the
village's control.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its adoption and approval.
(Ord. 2001, passed 1-21-2010)
§ 30.05 COLLECTION FEES AND COSTS.
   In the event a fine or penalty is assessed pursuant any provision of this
code, a default in the payment of a fine or penalty, or of any installment of a
fine or penalty, may be collected by any means authorized for the collection of
monetary judgments. The village and the Village Attorney or the Finance
Director, or their designees, may retain attorneys and private collection
agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or
penalty imposed by this code, or of any installment of a fine or penalty. Any
fees or costs incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or private
collection agents retained by the village shall be charged to the offender.
(Ord. 2424, passed 5-3-2018)
CHAPTER 31: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
31.01   Corporate authorities
   
31.02   Meetings of the Board
   
31.03   Quorum
   
31.04   Order of business
   
31.05   Preservation of order
   
31.06   Motions and resolutions
   
31.07   Passage of ordinances
   
31.08   Voting
   
31.09   Addressing the Board
   
31.10   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
31.11   Suspension of rules
   
31.12   Amendment of rules
   
31.13   Committees
   
31.14   Compensation
§ 31.01 CORPORATE AUTHORITIES.
   The legislative and governing body of the village shall consist of the Mayor
and six Trustees, who shall possess the qualifications for office, be elected
by the legal voters of the village, take the oath of office and perform the
duties provided by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 31.02 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Village Board for the year 2025 will be held
at the Crestwood Civic Center, 13820 S. Cicero Avenue, Crestwood, in the County
of Cook, State of Illinois, on the first and third Thursday of every month
(except July and August, which will be on the third Thursday only) at the hour
of 7:00 p.m., unless otherwise noticed or rescheduled. There will be one
exception for 2025 in January, the Board meetings will be on the second and
fourth Thursday (January 9 and January 23). The dates for regular meetings of
the Village Board are as follows, all in the year 2025:
      (1)   January 9 and 23.
      (2)   February 6 and 20.
      (3)   March 6 and 20.
      (4)   April 3 and 17.
      (5)   May 1 and 15.
      (6)   June 5 and 19.
      (7)   July 17.
      (8)   August 21.
      (9)   September 4 and 18.
      (10)   October 2 and 16.
      (11)   November 6 and 20.
      (12)   December 4 and 18.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings may be held at any time on call for the same by
the Mayor or any three or more Trustees, which call shall be in writing, duly
signed and presented to the Clerk, who shall proceed immediately to prepare
notices of the same and cause them to be served on the Mayor and members of the
Board of Trustees in the usual manner at least 24 hours before the time of the
meeting. The notices shall describe, in brief, the nature or objects of the
call.
      (2)   At every special meeting, the call therefor shall be read and then
filed by the Clerk. No business other than that proposed by the call shall be
in order at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 2095, passed 12-6-2012; Ord. 2117, passed 6-6-2013;
Ord. 2128, passed 9-5-2013; Ord. 2140, passed 12-19-2013; Ord. 2269, passed 12-
3-2015; Ord. 2336, passed 12-8-2016; Ord. 2399, passed 12-21-2017; Ord. 2626,
passed 1-6-2022; Ord. 2655, passed 8-18-2022; Ord. 2665, passed 12-15-2022;
Ord. 2698, passed 11-2-2023; Ord. 2710, passed 1-4-2024; Ord. 2744, passed 12-
5-2024)
§ 31.03 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Board elected, including the Mayor, shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn, from time to time, and
may compel the attendance of absentees, under whatever penalties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 31.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The following order of business will be adhered to in all meetings of
the Board unless suspended by the unanimous consent of members present or
unless these rules are suspended as provided in §
31.12.
   (B)   At the hour selected for the meeting, the Clerk, or someone appointed
to fill the Clerk’s place, shall proceed to call the roll of members, mark the
absentees and announce whether a quorum or majority of all the members elected
be present. Upon the appearance of a quorum, the Board shall be called to
order, the Village Mayor taking the chair, if present, but the Board appointing
a temporary Chairperson if the Mayor is absent. If a quorum does not appear,
the Board shall not, thereby, stand adjourned unless by a vote of the members
present. When a quorum is present, the Board shall proceed to the business
before it which shall be conducted in the following sequence:
      (1)   Minutes of the preceding regular meeting and of any special
meetings subsequent thereto. The Clerk shall deliver copies of the proposed
minutes to the Board not less than 48 hours prior to the regular meeting at
which the minutes are presented for approval;
      (2)   Treasurer’s report;
      (3)   Reports from standing committees;
      (4)   Reports from special committees, if any;
      (5)   Presentation of petitions and communications that may not have been
previously referred to committees, resolutions and ordinances; and
      (6)   Miscellaneous business.
   (C)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by
the chair without debate, subject to appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.05 PRESERVATION OF ORDER.
   (A)   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and may speak
to points of order in reference to other members and shall decide all questions
of order, subject to an appeal to the Village Board, on which appeal, no member
shall speak more than once without the unanimous consent of the Board.
   (B)   While the presiding officer is putting the question or while business
is being transacted, no member shall walk across or out of the Village Board
Room, except by consent of the Board.
   (C)   (1)   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, making a motion
or seconding the same, shall address himself or herself to the presiding
officer and say “Mr. Mayor”, but shall not proceed with his or her remarks
until recognized and named by the chair.
      (2)   When two or more members speak at once, the presiding officer shall
name the member who is to be first to speak.
   (D)   In the case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the presiding
officer shall have the power to require the room to be cleared if necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(1))
§ 31.06 MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Any matter before the Board may be set down as a special order of
business at a certain time if two-thirds of the Trustees present vote in the
affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (B)   No motion shall be put or debated unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate and the
proposer of the motion shall be entitled to the floor.
   (C)   After a motion or resolution is stated by the presiding officer, it
shall be deemed to be in possession of the Board but may be withdrawn at any
time before decision or amendment, by unanimous consent of the Board.
   (D)   If the question under consideration contains several distinct
propositions, any member may have the same divided when the sense admits of it.
   (E)   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered on the minutes of
the Board, the names of the Trustees moving and seconding the same shall be
entered also.
   (F)   All resolutions and amendments of rules or ordinances, before being
presented, shall be reduced to writing and handed to the Clerk for presentation
to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(2))
§ 31.07 PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Generally. No ordinance shall be finally passed by the Board at the
same meeting at which the ordinance shall be introduced, except by unanimous
vote or after a suspension of these rules.
   (B)   Expenditures. A concurrence of a majority of all members elected shall
be necessary to the passage of any ordinance or proposition to create any
liability against the village or for the expenditure or appropriation of any
money.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(3))
§ 31.08 VOTING.
   (A)   Taking of vote. The yeas and nays of members shall be taken and
entered on the minutes and every Village Trustee shall vote on every
proposition unless excused by action of the Board.
   (B)   Special number of votes.
      (1)   Three-fourths vote of all members elected shall be required for:
         (a)   The sale or lease of real property;
         (b)   The sale of personal property;
         (c)   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys; and
         (d)   In all other instances where required by state statute.
      (2)   Two-thirds vote of all members elected shall be required for:
         (a)   The letting of contracts without the calling for bids, where
permitted by state statute;
         (b)   Censure of a Board member who has refused to obey an order of
the presiding Chairperson or acted in a manner disrespectful of the Board; and
         (c)   In all other instances where required by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(4))
§ 31.09 ADDRESSING THE BOARD.
   No person, other than a member of the Board, shall address the Board without
two-thirds consent of the members present. However, this restriction shall not
apply to responses where reports are requested of, or inquiries directed to,
the Village Treasurer, Village Attorney, Village Engineer or any other village
official or employee.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(5))
§ 31.10 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised, shall govern the Board relative to its
parliamentary procedure, including, but not limited to, matters of:
   (A)   Priority of motions;
   (B)   Adjournments;
   (C)   Tabling;
   (D)   Previous question;
   (E)   Reference to committees;
   (F)   Amendments and substitutions;
   (G)   Postponements; and
   (H)   Reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(6))
§ 31.11 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   These rules of order may be suspended temporarily upon a vote of two-thirds
of the Trustees present.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(7))
§ 31.12 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules shall not be amended unless notice of the proposed amendment
shall have been submitted, in writing, at least one regular meeting prior to
the vote upon the proposed amendment and no amendment shall be effective unless
approved by two-thirds vote of all members elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(8))
§ 31.13 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committees.
      (1)   There shall be nine standing committees, as follows:
         (a)   The Committee of The Whole;
         (b)   Public Works;
         (c)   Scavenger;
         (d)   Fire;
         (e)   Police;
         (f)   Emergency Management Agency;
         (g)   Buildings and Plats;
         (h)   Water; and
         (i)   Wellness.
      (2)   The Mayor shall appoint one Trustee as Chairperson of each standing
committee and other Trustees as the Mayor may designate as members of each
committee. These appointments shall be made during May of each municipal year
and shall be for annual terms. The Mayor shall be an ex-officio member of each
committee.
   (B)   Special committees. Special committees, where required, shall also be
appointed by the Mayor. Special committees shall be discharged upon acceptance
of their final reports.
   (C)   Jurisdiction of committees.
      (1)   Unless in case of emergency, committee meetings shall be called by
written notice at least 24 hours prior to the time of meeting. Each member
shall attend promptly at the hour stated in the notice or, if unable to do so,
shall notify the Chairperson of the committee to that effect.
      (2)   All ordinances, petitions, resolutions, orders and communications
to the Board shall be referred to appropriate committees to be announced by the
Mayor.
      (3)   All warrants shall be presented to the Board by the Clerk not less
than 48 hours prior to the meeting at which the warrants are to be considered
for approval; however, this provision shall apply to only bills received by the
Clerk on or before the Saturday preceding the meeting.
      (4)   The Finance Committee shall approve and recommend the payment of
all bills and expenses; however, other committees may be referred bills for
initial examination and investigation prior to referral to the Finance
Committee.
      (5)   Any bill adversely reported by the Finance Committee or other
committee shall be, on the request of any two Trustees, referred to a special
committee before the same is disallowed.
   (D)   Reports of committees.
      (1)   Standing and special committees to whom references are made shall,
in all cases, report at least once in each month unless further time be granted
by a vote of the Board. Upon discretion of the Chairperson of each committee,
reports may be in writing and, if written, the reports shall be signed by
committee members concurring therein. Minority reports may be received at the
same time with majority reports and shall be in similar form.
      (2)   The Mayor may require written reports.
      (3)   All reports of committees shall be directed “To the Mayor and Board
of Trustees”. They shall briefly describe the matter referred and the
conclusion shall be summed up in the form of an ordinance, order, resolution,
recommendation or some other distinct proposition.
   (E)   Meetings.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (E)(2) below, Board Committee
meetings will be held at 7:00 p.m. in the Crestwood Village Hall, 13800 South
Cicero Avenue, Crestwood, County of Cook, State of Illinois, on the first and
third Tuesday of each month, except as otherwise noticed or rescheduled, all as
provided by law.
      (2)   Village Board Committee of the Whole meetings will be held at 7:00
p.m. in the Crestwood Village Hall, 13800 South Cicero Avenue, Crestwood,
County of Cook, State of Illinois, on the first and third Tuesday of each month
(except July and August, which will be on the third Tuesday of the month only).
There will be one exception for 2025, in January, the Board Committee meetings
will be on the second and fourth Tuesday of the month (January 7 and January
21). The dates for the Village Board Committee of the Whole meetings are as
follows, all in the year 2025:
         (a)   January 7 and 21.
         (b)   February 4 and 18.
         (c)   March 4 and 18.
         (d)   April 1, 15 and 29.
         (e)   May 13.
         (f)   June 3 and 17.
         (g)   July 15.
         (h)   August 19.
         (i)   September 2, 16 and 30.
         (j)   October 14.
         (k)   November 4 and 18.
         (l)   December 2 and 16.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5-(9)) (Ord. 1117, passed 5-18-1989; Ord. 2095, passed 12-6-
2012; Ord. 2117, passed 6-6-2013; Ord. 2128, passed 9-5-2013; Ord. 2140, passed
12-19-2013; Ord. 2269, passed 12-3-2015; Ord. 2336, passed 12-8-2016; Ord.
2665, passed 12-15-2022; Ord. 2698, passed 11-2-2023; Ord. 2710, passed 1-4-
2024; Ord. 2744, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 31.14 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The annual compensation of each of the Village Trustees shall be
$10,000, payable in two semi-annual installments, or as otherwise directed by
the Board.
   (B)   Trustees will be allowed two absences in each year for which
compensation may be paid at the foregoing rate. Trustees may be absent from
more than two meetings each year and receive payment of the compensation
stated; provided, the absent Trustee shows due cause for each additional
absence, including, but not limited to, illness of the Trustee, serious illness
of a member of the Trustee’s immediate family, death in the Trustee’s immediate
family or other similar cause.
   (C)   The compensation stated shall apply to those persons elected to the
Office of Village Trustee for the village on and after April, 2025.
   (D)   Each Village Trustee may receive reimbursement from the village for
expenses incurred by the member in attending meetings of the Board of Trustees
or for other expenses incurred by the Trustee in the course of performing
official duties, as approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6) (Ord. 1109, passed 2-2-1989; Ord. 2189, passed 9-18-2014;
Ord. 2692, passed 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Officers designated
   
32.002   Terms of office; removals; vacancies
   
32.003   Oath and bond
   
32.004   Salaries
   
32.005   Duties
   
32.006   Inspection of books and records; reports
   
32.007   Social Security coverage
   
32.008   Pension plan
   
32.009   Resisting, impersonating officer
   
32.010   Office hours
Village Mayor
   
32.025   Election; term; qualifications
   
32.026   Bond
   
32.027   Powers and duties; compensation
   
32.028   Mayor Pro Tempore
Village Clerk
   
32.040   Bond
   
32.041   Duties
   
32.042   Salary
   
32.043   Clerk to serve as Collector
   
32.044   Deputy Clerk
Village Treasurer
   
32.055   Bond
   
32.056   Books and records kept; reports
   
32.057   Salary
Village Attorney
   
32.070   Qualifications; bond
   
32.071   Duties
   
32.072   Compensation
Health Officer
   
32.085   Duties
   
32.086   Police to assist
   
32.087   Compensation
Village Services Director
   
32.100   Office established; appointment; term
   
32.101   Qualifications; oath; bond; removal from office
   
32.102   Powers and duties; limitations
   
32.103   Compensation
Village Prosecutor
   
32.115   Qualifications; bond
   
32.116   Duties
   
32.117   Compensation
Code Enforcement Officer
   
32.130   Appointment; compensation
   
32.131   Term of office
   
32.132   Residency
Community Service Officer
   
32.145   Position established
   
32.146   General duties
   
32.147   Maximum number of officers
   
32.148   Residency
Administrative Hearing Officer
   
32.160   Appointment; duties; qualifications
   
32.161   Compensation
Parks Patrol Officer
   
32.170   Appointment; duties; qualifications; compensation; term
   
32.171   Residency
Comptroller
   
32.180   Position created; appointment; qualifications; duties
Inspector General
   
32.190   Office of Independent Inspector General created
   
32.191   Designation of Cook County Sheriff
   
32.192   Purpose of office
   
32.193   Powers and duties of OIG
   
32.194   Duty to cooperate
   
32.195   Acknowledgment of duty to cooperate
Budget Officer
   
32.205   Adoption of the budget process and creation of the Budget Officer
   
32.206   Mayor designated as the Budget Officer
   
32.207   Enumerated powers of the Budget Officer
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 OFFICERS DESIGNATED.
   Among the officers of the village, to be appointed by the Mayor and approved
by the Board of Trustees, whose offices are hereby created and established, are
the following: Village Treasurer, Village Attorney, Village Prosecutor, Village
Auditor, Deputy Clerk, Village Engineer, Building Commissioner, Electrical
Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, Health Inspector, Health Commissioner, Village
Services Director, Community Relations Officer, Director of Public Works,
Superintendent of Public Works, Coordinator of ESDA, Police Chief, Fire
Inspector, Volunteer Fire Department Chief, Volunteer Fire Department members,
office secretary, water meter readers, civic center custodian, caretaker,
school crossing guards, Rescue Unit members, chairpersons and members of
departments, boards and commissions, as provided hereafter in the village code.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 828, passed 12-18-1980; Ord. 852, passed 5-21-1981)
§ 32.002 TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVALS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   All officers shall hold their appointive offices until the first
Monday of May in each year following their appointments and until their
successors shall have been appointed and qualified; however, officers,
appointees or employees may be suspended or removed from Office by the Mayor,
as provided by law.
   (B)   All vacancies may be filled in a manner similar to the official
appointment.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 32.003 OATH AND BOND.
   (A)   Oath of office.
      (1)   All officers, whether elected or appointed, shall, before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe the following
oath or affirmation:
         I,
                                                                                
, do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be), that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
                                    of the Village of Crestwood, to the best of
my ability.
      (2)   The oath or affirmation so subscribed shall be filed in the office
of the Clerk.
   (B)   Bonds.
      (1)   The officers of the village shall give bonds in the sums and within
the time respectively stated in the provisions of the code defining the powers
and duties of the several officers and departments of the village. In all cases
not specifically provided for, the officers shall give the bonds and within the
time as the Mayor and Board of Trustees may require or as required by law.
Should good cause exist, in the judgment and discretion of the Board of
Trustees, any officer may be required, from time to time, to give additional
bonds in the sums and within the times as the Board may, by resolution, direct.
      (2)   The bond of each officer shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of his or her office and the payment to the proper
officer of all moneys coming into his or her hands by virtue of his or her
office.
      (3)   The bonds of all officers shall be subject to the approval of the
Mayor and Board of Trustees. After the approval, as aforesaid, the Clerk shall
endorse thereon the date thereof and file the same in his or her office, except
the bond of the Clerk, which shall be filed with the Treasurer.
   (C)   Failure to qualify. If any person elected or appointed to any office
shall fail to qualify by taking, subscribing and filing the oath of office and
making, executing and filing his or her official bond, as herein provided,
within ten days after being officially notified of his or her election or
appointment, the office shall become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 32.004 SALARIES.
   Unless otherwise specified in the code, the salary and pay of all officers
and employees shall be paid not less than monthly to each person entitled
thereto. No officer, deputy to an officer, employee, inspector or person acting
as a representative of the village shall retain any license fee, permit fee,
inspection fee or payment for any service due to the village in his or her
capacity as such for any thing, act or service required to be done or
authorized by the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 32.005 DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. Each officer, besides the specific duties which may be
required by virtue of office, shall also perform other and future duties and be
subject to rules and regulations as the Mayor and Board may, from time to time,
require or by ordinance provide and establish.
   (B)   Surrendering property to successor. Any person having been an officer
or employee, whose term has expired or who has resigned or been removed from
office, shall, within ten days after notification and request, deliver to his
or her successor in office all property, books and effects of every description
in his or her possession belonging to the village or appertaining to his or her
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 32.006 INSPECTION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS; REPORTS.
   All books, papers, vouchers, warrants, entries, accounts and memoranda of
each and every officer and employee of the village may be examined at any time
by the Mayor, and the Mayor and Board of Trustees may, by resolution, call upon
any officer to make a report, in writing, of any subject matter which the Board
may designate and within the time as the resolution may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6)
§ 32.007 SOCIAL SECURITY COVERAGE.
   (A)   Benefits. It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the
village to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of 1-1-1971,
the benefits of the Federal Old Age and Survivors’ Insurance system as
authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. Elected
officers are hereby excluded. In pursuance of the policy and for that purpose,
the Village Mayor shall take action as may be required by applicable state and
federal laws or regulations.
   (B)   Agreement. The Village Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
execute an agreement with the State Employees’ Retirement System to secure
coverage of eligible employees as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Withholdings. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the
purpose provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized to be made in the
amounts and at times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations and shall be paid over to the state agency in amounts and at times
as are designated by state laws or regulations.
   (D)   Contributions. Employer contributions and administrative expense shall
be paid to the state agency in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations from amounts appropriated for the purposes.
   (E)   Records and reports. The Village Treasurer shall maintain the records
and submit the reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws
or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-7)
§ 32.008 PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   Village contributions; definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of providing pension benefits for eligible full-
time village employees who are not eligible to participate in any pension fund
or retirement system established under Articles 2 through 18 of the State
Pension Code, being ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, the village may contribute $2,000 or
10% of an eligible full-time employee’s qualifying compensation, whichever
amount is less.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ELIGIBLE FULL-TIME VILLAGE EMPLOYEE. An employee:
            1.   Regularly and continuously employed by the village for not
less than a qualifying 52 prior consecutive weeks term;
            2.   Average weekly hours worked of not less than 40 hours;
            3.   Employed by the village on the date of determination of annual
qualifying compensation; and
            4.   Not eligible to participate in any pension fund or retirement
system established under Articles 2 through 18 of the State Pension Code.
         QUALIFYING COMPENSATION. The compensation earned by an “eligible full-
time village employee” during the 52 weeks immediately prior to the date of
benefits determination, but excluding compensation earned during the initial,
qualifying 52 prior consecutive weeks term of full-time employment. No
contributions shall be made, and no benefits paid, for the initial qualifying
52 consecutive weeks of full-time employment.
   (B)   Appropriation of contributions.
      (1)   Pension contributions to made pursuant to the plan by the village,
as authorized by law and as elected to be provided by the Village Board in its
annual appropriation ordinance, shall be the same for all eligible full-time
employees qualified to participate in this plan and shall be, as stated, $2,000
or 10% of the eligible full-time employee’s fiscal year salary, whichever is
less.
      (2)   All determinations of qualification and benefits payable annually
shall be by the Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer no later than 60 days
after passage and approval by the Village Board of its annual appropriation
ordinance, provided pension contributions by the village for this purpose are
appropriated. An employee may request a review by the Village Board as to:
         (a)   Eligibility for benefits; and
         (b)   The computation of benefit amounts, if any.
      (3)   The Village Board’s determination shall be final.
   (C)   Depositary agreement. The Mayor and Village Clerk are authorized and
directed to execute a depositary agreement, or agreements, on behalf of the
village with any authorized depositary for village funds, and providing for the
deposit of the described pension benefits to an eligible full-time village
employee’s individual account, subject to withdrawal by the employee at
retirement, termination or by request, with interest earnings thereon added to
the participant’s account; and the Mayor and Village Clerk are further
authorized to execute all documents and reports required to effectuate:
      (1)   The described pension benefits;
      (2)   Designations and reports of participant’s individual accounts,
deposits, interest earnings and withdrawals; and
      (3)   Internal Revenue Code reporting requirements, if any.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-8) (Ord. 1298, passed 9-3-1992)
§ 32.009 RESISTING, IMPERSONATING OFFICER.
   (A)   Resisting an officer. It shall be unlawful for any person to
intentionally interfere with, resist, delay, obstruct, molest or threaten to
molest any officer of the municipality in the exercise of his or her official
duties.
   (B)   Impersonating an officer. It shall be unlawful for any person to
represent falsely to be an officer of the village or attempt to impersonate any
officer or, without authority, perform any official act therein on behalf of
the officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.010 OFFICE HOURS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the offices of the respective village officers
whose offices are located in the village shall be open for business at the
Village Hall from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., daily, except Sundays and holidays.
Saturday, the offices will be open from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon and will be
open Tuesday evenings from 6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-10)
VILLAGE MAYOR
§ 32.025 ELECTION; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be elected at the regular annual village election for the year
1973, and every four years thereafter, a Mayor of the village who shall hold
office for four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. The Mayor
shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector and shall have
resided within the village at least one year next preceding the election at
which he or she is a candidate.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 32.026 BOND.
   The Mayor shall, before entering upon the duties of office, execute a bond
to the village in the penal sum of not less than $3,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 32.027 POWERS AND DUTIES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Executive duties; compensation. The Mayor shall perform the duties and
exercise the powers conferred upon the mayor of a city as prescribed and
provided by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.).
The Mayor shall devote full time to the duties of the office as the faithful
discharge thereof may require and shall receive as compensation therefor at an
annual salary of $35,000. This compensation shall apply to the Mayor elected to
the Office of Mayor for the village on and after April 4, 2017.
   (B)   General duties. The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all appointed
officers and see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of
their respective offices; shall inquire into all reasonable complaints made
against them and cause all their neglects or violations of duties to be
promptly corrected; and shall, from time to time, give to the Board of Trustees
information relative to the affairs of the village as may be deemed proper and
recommend to its consideration any measure may be deemed expedient, tending to
the well-being, security and improvement of the village.
   (C)   Appointments and removals.
      (1)   The Mayor shall appoint all officers of the village whose
appointments are not otherwise provided for by statute, and whenever a vacancy
shall occur in any office which, by statute or ordinance, the Mayor is
authorized to fill, shall, at the regular meeting of the Board next occurring,
communicate the name of an appointee to the office, and pending the approval or
rejection by the Board as to the appointment, may designate some suitable
person to discharge the duties of the office.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have the discretionary power to remove all
appointed officers or employees of the village from their positions in or
employment by the village. The Mayor shall report the removal to the Board of
Trustees as provided by the State Municipal Code.
   (D)   Ordinance approval or veto. The Mayor shall carefully inspect all
ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees and fix the Mayor’s official
signature to such as may be approved and return them to the Clerk; ordinances
as shall not be approved shall be returned to the Board, with objections
thereto, in writing, at the next regular meeting occurring after the passage
thereof. The veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations
contained in any ordinance making appropriations or to the entire ordinance,
and in case the veto only extends to a part of the ordinance, the remainder
thereof shall take effect and be in force, but in case the Mayor shall fail to
return any ordinance with objections thereto by the time aforesaid, the Mayor
shall be deemed to have approved the ordinance and the same shall take effect
accordingly.
   (E)   Signatures; license revocation.
      (1)   The Mayor shall sign all commissions, licenses, permits and
warrants granted, issued or ordered by the Board or authorized by the
provisions of this code, except for permits provided to be issued by or under
the signature of the Health Officer or Fire Chief, and may revoke any licenses
for any violations of the provisions of this code.
      (2)   The Mayor shall sign and is hereby authorized to sign all
instruments necessary to the prompt prosecution or defense of any or all
actions brought by or against the village, including bonds for injunction.
   (F)   Release prisoners. The Mayor may, for good and sufficient reasons,
release any person imprisoned for violation of any provisions of this code. The
Mayor shall cause a proper record thereof to be made and shall report the
release, with the cause therefor, to the Board at its first session thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 956, passed 1-17-1985; Ord. 2309, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 32.028 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   During a temporary absence of the Mayor or by reason of the Mayor’s
inability to act, the Board shall elect, by majority vote, one of its members
to act as Mayor Pro Tempore who, during the Mayor’s absence or disability,
shall possess the powers of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 32.040 BOND.
   The Village Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of office, extend
to the village a bond in the penal sum of not less than $1,000 with sureties to
be approved by the Board, conditioned as provided by the provisions of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-1)
§ 32.041 DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Clerk shall, in addition to the duties now imposed by
statute, perform the following duties:
      (1)   Keep his or her office in the Village Hall open for the transaction
of village business during usual daily business hours;
      (2)   Issue notices of meetings to the Mayor and members of the Board
and, when directed by that body, to the members of the different committees of
that body and to all persons whose attendance will be required before that body
or any committee when so directed; he or she shall also issue and cause to be
served notices of the meetings;
      (3)   Attest all the licenses granted by the Mayor or Board under the
provisions of this code;
      (4)   Without delay, deliver to the officers of the village and to the
various committees all bills, resolutions, communications and other documents
referring to the officers and committees;
      (5)   Without delay, deliver to the Mayor all ordinances or resolutions
under his or her charge which may require approval or other action by the Mayor
with all papers and information on which the same were founded; and
      (6)   Perform other duties as may be required of him or her by the Mayor
and Board and the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Keeper of seal and records. The Clerk shall keep the corporate seal
and affix the same to all papers which require it. He or she shall keep all
records and papers belonging to the village and attend all meetings of the
Mayor and Board and keep a full record of its proceedings in the Journal. He or
she shall prepare all warrants for the payment of money, countersign and
deliver same when called for, after they have been signed by the Mayor, taking
a proper receipt therefor. He or she shall make proper copies of all papers
duly filed in his or her office and make transcripts from the Journal and other
records filed of his or her office, certified by him or her under the village
corporate seal.
   (C)   Record ordinances.
      (1)   All ordinances passed by the Mayor and Board shall be recorded by
the Clerk in a book kept for that purpose before the next regular meeting after
they go into effect.
      (2)   If the ordinance requires publication, he or she shall cause the
same to be duly published as provided by law. The Clerk shall note at the foot
of the record of each ordinance a memorandum of the date of its passage and
approval or otherwise becoming effective and if published, the date of the
publication of the ordinances. The original shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk with a certificate of publication or posting attached to ordinances
requiring publication.
   (D)   Notify persons elected. It shall be the duty of the Clerk, within five
days after the result of an election is declared or an appointment made, to
notify, in writing, all persons elected or appointed to office. Unless the
persons shall respectively qualify in ten days after the notice, the office
shall become and be vacant.
   (E)   File tax levy. It shall be the duty of the Clerk, on or before the
second Tuesday in September in each year, to file with the County Clerk a
certified copy of the ordinance in which the total amount of appropriations for
all corporate purposes of the village legally are levied and assessed for the
current fiscal year.
   (F)   Records of warrants. The Clerk shall make a full record of the dates,
amounts and parties of each warrant issued and on what fund issued; he or she
shall also keep a record book showing, under separate headings as to each fund,
the same facts as to all warrants issued for any purpose on the fund and also
showing the same as paid and cancelled by the Treasurer and the exact amounts
of principle and interest actually paid thereof.
   (G)   Report of expenses. The Clerk shall, on or before June 1 in each year,
submit to the Mayor and Board a report of his or her estimates as nearly as may
be of moneys necessary to defray the expenses of the Village Clerk’s office
during the current fiscal year.
   (H)   Receive petitions and communications. All petitions, remonstrances,
bids, bills or other communications addressed to the village or Board shall be
received by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-2)
§ 32.042 SALARY.
   (A)   The compensation of the Village Clerk shall be $4,000 per fiscal year.
   (B)   The compensation stated shall apply to the person elected to the
Office of Village Clerk for the village on and after 4-4-1989.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-3) (Ord. 1110, passed 2-2-1989)
§ 32.043 CLERK TO SERVE AS COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to the State Municipal Code, the Village Clerk shall act as
and perform all the duties of Village Collector as provided by law and
ordinance.
   (B)   The annual salary to be received by the Village Clerk for performing
the duties of, and acting as, Village Collector shall be as stated in the
annual appropriation ordinance, payable semi-monthly. The salary for the
Village Clerk, acting as Village Collector, shall be in addition to the Village
Clerk’s compensation as previously provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-4) (Ord. 850, passed 5-7-1981)
§ 32.044 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   Established. The position of the Deputy Clerk is hereby created.
   (B)   Appointment. The Deputy Clerk shall be appointed by the Clerk for an
annual term of May 1 to April 30, subject to posting bond and oath.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The Deputy Clerk shall assist the Village Clerk in the Clerk’s day
to day operations of the Village Clerk’s office.
      (2)   The Deputy Clerk shall serve as Clerk Pro Tem in the case of the
temporary absence, illness, or temporary incapacity of the Clerk.
      (3)   The Deputy Clerk shall take minutes at meetings where minutes are
required where the Clerk is absent or unavailable.
(Ord. 2079, passed 4-19-2012)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 32.055 BOND.
   The Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of the Treasurer’s office,
shall execute to the village a bond conditioned for the faithful discharge of
the Treasurer’s duties, with sureties to be approved by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, in a sum of not less than $50,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-1) (Ord. 970, passed 4-18-1985)
§ 32.056 BOOKS AND RECORDS KEPT; REPORTS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the village and
shall render at the end of each and every month, and more often if required, a
statement, under oath, to the Board, showing the state of the Treasury at the
date of the account and the balance of the money in the Treasury; the statement
shall set forth all the moneys received by him or her, from whom and on what
account they shall have been received; also, all moneys paid out by him or her
and on what account they shall have been paid.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall cause to be kept books of account in a manner as
to accurately show all moneys received by him or her, from whom and on what
account they shall have been received; also, all moneys paid out by him or her
and on what account they have been paid. The books shall be kept in a manner as
to be readily understood and investigated; which books and all papers and files
of the office shall, at all times, be open to the examination of the Mayor and
Board or any member thereof.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall, keep by double entry, a full detailed account of
all village funds, general tax receipts and receipts from other sources; also,
a bond account, sinking fund account and forfeit account in the Village Ledger.
He or she shall keep a “special fund” ledger in which all special funds shall
be kept separately by numbers and names of the special funds showing the total
amount of each fund and installment of same to be collected and each amount to
show the total collections and disbursements on account of same.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-2)
§ 32.057 SALARY.
   The compensation of the Treasurer shall be as provided in the annual
appropriation ordinance. The salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments
upon proper warrants.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-3)
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
§ 32.070 QUALIFICATIONS; BOND.
   The Village Attorney shall be licensed to practice law in the state and
before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall execute
to the village a bond in the penal sum of $1,000 to be approved by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his or her
duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-1)
§ 32.071 DUTIES.
   The Village Attorney shall:
   (A)   Generally. Conduct all the law business of the village and draw
ordinances, deeds, leases and other papers as may be required of him or her by
the Mayor and Board or any committee thereof, except for those duties required
of the Village Prosecutor;
   (B)   Opinions. Give his or her opinion, in writing, to the Board or any
committee thereof or the Mayor, when requested, on legal questions arising
under or concerning any ordinance of the village and on questions and subjects
in which the village shall be legally interested; and
   (C)   Property to successor. Upon the expiration of his or her term of
office, turn over to his or her successor in office all dockets, deeds, leases
or other papers in his or her hands belonging to the village or delivered to
him or her by the village or any of its officers and all papers in actions
prosecuted or defended by him or her then pending and undetermined.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-2)
§ 32.072 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Attorney shall be paid for his or her general counsel and advice
as provided at the time of his or her appointment and/or by the annual
appropriation ordinance. In addition, for litigation services, special
assessment and bond ordinance matters, he or she shall be paid as further
provided by contract by an ordinance of the Mayor and Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-3)
HEALTH OFFICER
§ 32.085 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer:
   (A)   To enforce and observe all rules, regulations and orders of the State
Department of Public Health and all state laws pertaining to the preservation
of the health of the people;
   (B)   To execute and enforce all provisions of the code relating to
nuisances, public health and sanitation;
   (C)   To investigate the existence of any contagious or infectious disease
and to report the same promptly to the Board and to the Department of Health of
the state and to act, without delay, in carrying out the measures for arresting
the progress of the same as either or both of the bodies shall adopt; and
   (D)   To make all necessary sanitary and health investigations and
inspections.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-1)
§ 32.086 POLICE TO ASSIST.
   The village police officers shall assist the Health Officer in the
performance of his or her duties when called upon by the Health Officer or by
the Mayor or Board of Trustees or any member thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-2)
§ 32.087 COMPENSATION.
   The Health Officer shall receive as compensation for his or her services
amounts to be fixed by the Village Board of Trustees and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-3)
VILLAGE SERVICES DIRECTOR
§ 32.100 OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   There is hereby established the appointed office of Village Services
Director for the village.
   (B)   The Village Services Director shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The term of the Village Services Director shall be as announced by the
Mayor at the time of appointment and shall not exceed four years or the
remaining portion of the Mayor’s term of office, whichever is shorter.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-1) (Ord. 852, passed 5-21-1981)
§ 32.101 QUALIFICATIONS; OATH; BOND; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The Village Services Director shall possess the qualifications
required of other officers of the village, shall be required to give bond,
shall take oath or affirmation of office as required by law and shall be
subject to removal from office by the Mayor in the same manner as other
appointive officers of the village.
   (B)   No elected official of the village shall be eligible to serve as
Village Services Director.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-2) (Ord. 852, passed 5-21-1981)
§ 32.102 POWERS AND DUTIES; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Powers and duties enumerated. The Village Services Director shall
perform services on behalf of the village, as directed and assigned by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Direction, coordination and supervision of village services to
residents and businesses;
      (2)   Direction, coordination and supervision of:
         (a)   Public works, water, sanitation, streets and municipal
improvements;
         (b)   Village properties; and
         (c)   Public ways.
      (3)   Coordination of village departments, boards and commissions toward
the goal of achieving efficient operation of the village government;
      (4)   Liaison assistance between village departments, boards, commission,
employees and officials for the purpose of providing coordinated services to
the public and citizenry of the village;
      (5)   Responses to public requests and inquiries concerning village
operations and services;
      (6)   Coordination and supervision of compliance notices and complaints
pertaining to alleged violations of village health, building and zoning codes
and ordinances to assure vigorous prosecution thereof and the presentation of
relevant testimony and documentation;
      (7)   General supervision of village employees with implementation and
recommendation of village personnel policies and practices;
      (8)   Assistance in providing information to residents and business
persons in the village, in cooperation with the Community Relations Department
and other departments, as to village activities and programs;
      (9)   Attendance, as official representative of the village and Village
Board, at meetings concerning all municipal functions with other governmental
bodies and agencies, civic, neighborhood, business, religious, charitable,
homeowners’, apartment dwellers’ and condominium members’ organizations and
associations; and
      (10)   Attendance at regular, special and committee meetings of the Mayor
and Board of Trustees for the purpose of receiving directions therefrom and
public participation thereat.
   (B)   Reports required. Not less than once each fiscal year and at any other
times as requested by the Mayor or Board of Trustees, the Village Services
Director shall provide a written report of his or her services, activities,
programs and duties, together with recommendations, and the proposals received
from others, as to additional and further Village Services Director activities,
plans, duties, responsibilities and studies.
   (C)   Limitations on powers. The Village Services Director shall have no
power to incur liability or, in any way, transact business for or in the name
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-3) (Ord. 852, passed 5-21-1981)
§ 32.103 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Services Director shall receive the compensation as prescribed
and approved at the time of appointment and/or as recited, from time to time,
in the annual appropriation ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-4) (Ord. 852, passed 5-21-1981)
VILLAGE PROSECUTOR
§ 32.115 QUALIFICATIONS; BOND.
   The Village Prosecutor shall be licensed to practice law in the state and
before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall execute
to the village a bond in the penal sum of $1,000 to be approved by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his or her
duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-7F-1)
§ 32.116 DUTIES.
   The Village Prosecutor shall conduct all prosecutions alleging violations of
village ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-7F-2)
§ 32.117 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Prosecutor shall be paid as provided at the time of appointment
and/or the annual appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7F-3)
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
§ 32.130 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor is authorized to:
   (A)   Appoint a Code Enforcement Officer, subject to the advice and approval
of the Board of Trustees;
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall report to the Village Services
Director and shall be responsible for the enforcement of all codes and
regulations for the village;
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be a certified police officer and
possess other qualifications required of other officers of the village, shall
be required to give a bond, shall take oath or affirmation of office as
required by law, shall be subject to removal from office by the Mayor in the
same manner as other appointed officers of the village; and
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall receive the compensation prescribed
and approved at the time of appointment or as recited, from time to time, in
the appropriate ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 1672, passed 10-5-2000)
§ 32.131 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the Office of Code Enforcement Officer shall be for one year
beginning on May 1 of each year and expiring on April 30 of each year or for
the partial term as is necessary.
(Ord. 1672, passed 10-5-2000)
§ 32.132 RESIDENCY.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall not be required to reside within the
village as a condition of appointment, employment or continued employment in
such capacity.
(Ord. 2121, passed 7-18-2013)
COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER
§ 32.145 POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the position of Community Service Officer, who
shall be a civilian non-sworn officer under the direction of the Police Chief,
who shall be employed for a maximum of 160 hours per month.
(Ord. 1956, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 32.146 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Community Service Officer shall particularly enforce the municipal
parking regulations, perform traffic control duties, provide crowd direction
and control and enforce other municipal ordinances as assigned by the Chief of
Police. The Community Service officers are specifically empowered to issue
citations and tickets for violation of the village code.
(Ord. 1956, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 32.147 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF OFFICERS.
   The maximum number of Community Service Officers appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the Village Board shall be 20.
(Ord. 1956, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 32.148 RESIDENCY.
   No Community Service Officer shall be required to reside within the village
as a condition of appointment, employment or continued employment in such
capacity.
(Ord. 2121, passed 7-18-2013)
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER
§ 32.160 APPOINTMENT; DUTIES; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall be appointed in accordance with,
and shall have such duties and qualifications as are specified in,
Chapter 11.
§ 32.161 COMPENSATION.
   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall be paid as provided at the time of
appointment and/or the annual appropriation ordinance.
PARKS PATROL OFFICER
§ 32.170 APPOINTMENT; DUTIES; QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to appoint a Parks Patrol Officer, subject to
the advice and approval of the Board of Trustees.
      (1)   The Parks Patrol Officer shall report to the Village Services
Director;
      (2)   The Parks Patrol Officer's duties will include, but not be limited
to, frequent inspections of all parks and enforcement of local ordinances;
      (3)   The Parks Patrol Officer shall be a certified police officer and
possess such other qualifications required of other officers of the village,
shall be required to give a bond, shall take oath or affirmation of office as
required by law, shall be subject to removal from office by the Mayor in the
same manner as other appointed officers of the village; and
      (4)   The Parks Patrol Officer shall receive the compensation prescribed
and approved at the time of appointment or as recited, from time to time, in
the appropriate ordinance of the village.
   (B)   The term of the office of Parks Patrol Officer shall be for one year
beginning on May 1 of each year and expiring on April 30 of each year or for
such partial term as is necessary.
(Ord. 1754, passed 10-3-2002)
§ 32.171 RESIDENCY.
   The Parks Patrol Officer shall not be required to reside within the village
as a condition of appointment, employment or continued employment in such
capacity.
(Ord. 2121, passed 7-18-2013)
COMPTROLLER
§ 32.180 POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; DUTIES.
   (A)   Position created. There is hereby created the position of Comptroller
who shall oversee the accounting and financial operations within the village.
   (B)   Appointment. The Comptroller shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject
to the advice and consent of the Board, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-
30-5, for a term commencing on May 1 of each year and expiring on April 30 of
the following year. Immediately after enactment of this section, the initial
term shall be from the date of appointment to April 30, 2014.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Comptroller shall possess, at a minimum, a degree
in accounting or finance. Before entering upon the duties of his or her
position, the Comptroller shall execute to the village a bond conditioned on
the faithful discharge of the Comptroller’s duties, with sureties to be
approved by the Mayor and Board, in a sum of not less than $40,000. The initial
salary shall be $38,400 and shall be determined from time to time by ordinance.
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   Generally.  The Comptroller shall exercise and perform all
accounting and financial functions and duties now or hereafter assigned by the
Mayor or Board, or required under law, statute or any ordinance of the Village.
      (2)   In-house bookkeeper.  The Comptroller shall have charge, custody
and control of all warrants, vouchers, books, records and documents that are
not by statute or by the provisions of the village code given to any other
officer of the village and that must, at all times, be open to the examination
of the Mayor and Board or any member thereof. The Comptroller shall keep, in a
clear and methodical manner, a complete set of books wherein shall be stated,
among other things, the appropriations for the fiscal year for each
expenditure, all unexpended balances and estimated receipts from every source
of income and revenue, the indebtedness of the village, whether bonded or
otherwise, and generally the financial condition of the village so far as
practicable.
      (3)   Annual report. On or before May 15 of each year, and before the
annual appropriation ordinance is prepared, the Comptroller shall annually
submit to the Board a report of his or her estimates of money necessary to
defray the expenses of the village during the current fiscal year. In this
report, the Comptroller shall:
         (a)   Classify the different objects and purposes of expenditure,
giving, as nearly as may be, the amount required for each;
         (b)   Show the aggregate income of the preceding fiscal year, from all
sources;
         (c)   Show the amount of liabilities upon which interest is to be
paid;
         (d)   Show the bonds and debts payable during the year, when due and
payable; and
         (e)   Give all other information to the Board that the Comptroller
deems necessary, so that the Board may fully understand the demands upon the
village for the current fiscal year.
      (4)   Financial reports.  The Comptroller shall prepare and present
statements showing the financial condition of the village when requested by the
Mayor, the Board, or as may be required by law.
      (5)   Internal auditor.
         (a)   The Comptroller shall audit all financial accounts, records and
statements concerning the village, and provide evaluations and recommendations
to the Mayor and Board on the adequacy and efficiency of the village’s
financial practices.
         (b)   The Comptroller shall annually audit, and more often if required
by the Board, all village officials and employees charged in any manner with
the receipt, collection or disbursement of village revenues, and the collection
and return of all revenues into the village treasury. Following the audit, the
Comptroller shall provide a full report to the Mayor or Board, containing
suggestions and recommendations as he or she may deem advisable.
      (6)   Supervision of bonds.
         (a)   The Comptroller shall keep a correct list of all the outstanding
bonds of the village, stating:
            1.   The number, the date of issuance and expiration of such bonds;
            2.   The name and address of persons to whom such bonds are issued;
            3.   The identity of the fund out of which such bonds are payable;
and
            4.   The village bonds that are purchased, paid or canceled.
         (b)   The Comptroller shall annually submit a report describing the
bonds sold or paid during the year, and the terms of such sales or the amount
paid, with each and every item of expense thereof.
      (7)   Supervision of sureties.  If at any time it comes to the
Comptroller’s knowledge that any or all of the sureties on any such bond are
insolvent or will be unable to respond in damages if liability may arise upon
any such bond, the Comptroller shall notify the principal or principals upon
such bond of such fact, and direct that different and satisfactory sureties be
at once procured.
(Ord. 2146, passed 2-6-2014)
INSPECTOR GENERAL
§ 32.190 OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Office of Independent Inspector General (“OIG”)
for the village.
(Ord. 2149, passed 3-6-2014)
§ 32.191 DESIGNATION OF COOK COUNTY SHERIFF.
   The Office of the Cook County Sheriff is hereby designated as the OIG. The
OIG shall serve for an initial term of two years and may be reappointed
thereafter for successive two-year terms. The OIG shall serve without
compensation.
(Ord. 2149, passed 3-6-2014)
§ 32.192 PURPOSE OF OFFICE.
   The purpose of the OIG is to detect, deter and prevent corruption, fraud,
waste, mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination, unlawful activity and/
or misconduct in the operation of village government (collectively referred to
elsewhere in this subchapter as “misconduct”). UNLAWFUL POLITICAL
DISCRIMINATION shall include, but not be limited to, basing the terms and
conditions of a non-exempt employee’s employment, such as hiring, firing,
promotion, transfer, discipline or termination, on political reasons and
factors.
(Ord. 2149, passed 3-6-2014)
§ 32.193 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OIG.
   The OIG shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To receive and register complaints concerning misconduct in the
operation of village government, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Misconduct in connection with the village’s award of any contract,
license or benefit;
      (2)   Misconduct of any village employee;
      (3)   Misconduct of any elected or appointed official of the village in
the performance of his or her official duties;
      (4)   Misconduct of contractors, vendors and professional service
providers who furnish goods and services to the village;
      (5)    Misconduct of persons and businesses seeking to do business with
the village; and
      (6)   Retaliation against any village employee or elected or appointed
official of the village based upon their cooperation with the OIG.
   (B)   To investigate misconduct in the operation of village government,
either in response to such complaints or on the OIG’s own initiative.
   (C)   To refer complaints and information regarding possible misconduct to
other outside law enforcement agencies, including but not limited to, the
United States Attorney.
   (D)   To obtain information from and conduct interviews, under oath, with
village elected or appointed officials, employees, agents, contractors and
persons doing or seeking to do business with the village, for the purpose of
investigating potential misconduct.
   (E)   To make recommendations for corrective action to the Mayor and Board
of Trustees with respect to combating misconduct.
   (F)   To provide periodic reports to the President and Board of Trustees as
to the status of matters within the scope of OIG’s authority, to the extent
such reporting would not impair the integrity of ongoing investigations.
   (G)   To maintain an OIG hotline number and email address in order to
facilitate citizen and employee reports of misconduct.
(Ord. 2149, passed 3-6-2014)
§ 32.194 DUTY TO COOPERATE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all village employees, elected and appointed
officials, agents, independent contractors to the village, vendors, licensees,
and those doing or seeking to do business with the village, to cooperate with
the OIG in the conduct of any investigation undertaken pursuant to the OIG’s
authority.
   (B)   Subject to constitutional protections, failure of any village employee
or appointed official to cooperate with the OIG shall be considered cause for
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or removal
from office.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of any party doing business with the village to
likewise cooperate with the OIG. Refusal to cooperate shall be considered cause
for termination of a contract, license or similar benefit, or as grounds for
the village’s refusal to enter into a future contract, license or other
benefit.
(Ord. 2149, passed 3-6-2014)
§ 32.195 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF DUTY TO COOPERATE.
   All contracts for goods and services, and all future licenses or other
benefits issued by the village after March 6, 2014, the effective date of this
subchapter, shall be subject to the requirement that the individual or entity
receiving the contract, license or benefit, agree to fully comply with
requirements of this subchapter relating to cooperation with the Office of the
Inspector General.
(Ord. 2149, passed 3-6-2014)
BUDGET OFFICER
§ 32.205 ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET PROCESS AND CREATION OF THE BUDGET OFFICER.
   Effective January 1, 2017, the Village of Crestwood hereby adopts the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.1 through 9.11 inclusive, as
hereafter amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2309, passed 6-9-2016; Ord. 2338, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 32.206 MAYOR DESIGNATED AS THE BUDGET OFFICER.
   The Mayor, previously designated as the Budget Officer, shall serve in such
capacity as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.1, and shall implement
the budgeting process in lieu of an annual appropriation ordinance as provided
in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-4.
(Ord. 2309, passed 6-9-2016; Ord. 2338, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 32.207 ENUMERATED POWERS OF THE BUDGET OFFICER.
   The Budget Officer shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as
provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.2.
(Ord. 2309, passed 6-9-2016; Ord. 2338, passed 12-22-2016)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Plan Commission
   
33.001   Commission created; appointment; terms
   
33.002   Vacancies; removals from office; compensation
   
33.003   Organization
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
33.015   Board established; membership; appointment; terms
   
33.016   Vacancies; removal from office; compensation
   
33.017   Organization
   
33.018   Jurisdiction
Development Commission
   
33.030   Qualifications; bond; oath; removals from office
   
33.031   Officers
   
33.032   Powers and duties; limitations
   
33.033   Compensation
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
33.050   Board established; statutory provisions adopted
   
33.051   Membership; appointment; terms
   
33.052   Qualifications; bond; oath; removal from office
   
33.053   Secretary to the Board
   
33.054   Powers and duties; limitations
   
33.055   Compensation
Police Pension Fund Board of Trustees
   
33.070   Membership; appointment and election; terms
   
33.071   Meetings
   
33.072   Duties
Community Relations Department
   
33.110   Department established
   
33.111   Community Relations Officer
Emergency Management Agency
   
33.125   Establishment
   
33.126   Coordinator
   
33.127   Functions
   
33.128   Service as mobile support team
   
33.129   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
33.130   Emergency action
   
33.131   Compensation
   
33.132   Reimbursement by state
   
33.133   Purchases and expenditures
   
33.134   Oath
   
33.135   Office facility
   
33.136   Appropriation; levy of taxes
Emergency Telephone System Board
   
33.150   Recitals
   
33.151   Board, composition
   
33.152   Effective date
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 33.001 COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   A Plan Commission is hereby established and the word “Commission”,
when used in this subchapter, shall be construed to mean the Plan Commission.
The Commission shall consist of seven members to be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the Board of Trustees, who shall for four years, one
for five years, one for six years and one for seven years; the successor to
each member so appointed to serve for a term of five years and/or until his or
her successor is duly appointed and qualified.
   (B)   One of the members so appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the
time of his or her appointment and shall be appointed to serve for a period of
one year and shall either be reappointed or a new member appointed to fill the
vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 33.002 VACANCIES; REMOVALS FROM OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place
has been vacated in the same manner as the original appointments. All of the
members of the Commission shall serve with compensation, as provided in the
annual appropriation ordinance, and they shall not be subject to removal by
either the Mayor or the Board of Trustees, except for just cause and after
public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 33.003 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Crestwood Planning/Zoning Commission will meet at 8:00 p.m. on
the second and fourth Monday of each month, until otherwise noticed or
rescheduled, in the Crestwood Civic Center, 13820 South Cicero Avenue,
Crestwood, County of Cook, State of Illinois. The Chairperson may call for a
specific meeting, but no official action may be taken unless notice is given of
the time and place of the meeting, not more than 30 days, nor less than 15,
days before the meeting, by publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or
more newspapers having a general circulation in the village.
      (2)   All meetings conducted by the Commission shall be open to the
public.
   (B)   Secretary; minutes. The Commission shall designate a Secretary to keep
minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question
or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating the fact, and who shall also keep
records of the Commission’s hearings and other official actions. The minutes
and records shall be filed immediately in the office of the Commission and
shall be a public record.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Commission shall adopt its rules of procedure
not in conflict with the village code nor with the state statutes in such case
made and provided.
   (D)   Quorum. The presence of four members shall be necessary to constitute
a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 2095, passed 12-6-2012; Ord. 2117, passed 6-6-2013;
Ord. 2128, passed 9-5-2013; Ord. 2140, passed 12-19-2013; Ord. 2269, passed 12-
3-2015; Ord. 2336, passed 12-8-2016; Ord. 2744, passed 12-5-2024)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 33.015 BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established, and the word BOARD,
when used in this subchapter, shall be construed to mean the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The Board shall consist of seven members, no less than two of whom
shall be members of the Plan Commission, to be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the consent of the Board of Trustees, who shall serve respectively for the
following terms: one for one year, one for two years, one for five years, one
for six years and one for seven years; the successor to each member so
appointed to serve for a term of five years and/or until his or her successor
is duly appointed and qualified.
   (B)   One of the members so appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the
time of his or her appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 33.016 VACANCIES; REMOVALS FROM OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place
has become vacated in the same manner as the original appointments. All of the
members of the Board shall serve with compensation, as provided in the annual
appropriation ordinance, and they shall not be subject to removal by either the
Mayor or the Board of Trustees, except for just cause and after public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 33.017 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Meetings. The Zoning Board of Appeals will meet as needed at 7:00 p.m.
on the second and/or fourth Monday of each month in the Crestwood Village Hall,
13840 South Cicero Avenue, Crestwood, County of Cook, State of Illinois,
pursuant to notice as required by statute of not less than 15 days nor more
than 30 days. All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public.
   (B)   Secretary; minutes.
      (1)   The Board shall designate a Secretary to keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or
failing to vote, indicating the fact, and who shall also keep records of the
Board’s hearings and other official actions.
      (2)   Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof and
every order, requirement, decision and determination of the Board shall be
filed immediately in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure
not in conflict with the code or with the state statutes in which case made and
provided.
   (D)   Quorum. The presence of four members shall be necessary to constitute
a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 2095, passed 12-6-2012; Ord. 2117, passed 6-6-2013;
Ord. 2128, passed 9-5-2013; Ord. 2140, passed 12-19-2013)
§ 33.018 JURISDICTION.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   General duties. It shall be its duty:
      (1)   To hear and decide all matters specifically referred to it in the
zoning regulations of the village;
      (2)   To determine and vary the application in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of the zoning regulations’ where there are practical
difficulties or particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of any of the regulations relating to the use, construction or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land; and
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning regulations’ or the
Zoning Map, the power and authority being reserved to the Village Mayor and the
Board of Trustees in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Building Commissioner in the enforcement
of the zoning regulations;
      (2)   On appeal or upon its own motion, interpret any provision of the
zoning regulations where there is doubt as to its meaning or application; and
      (3)   In exercising the above powers, the Board may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from and may make an order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all the powers
of the Building Commissioner from whom the appeal is taken.
   (C)   Variations.
      (1)   (a)   In its consideration of the standards of practical
difficulties or particular hardship, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall require
evidence that:
            1.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return, or
undue hardship would be caused, if permitted to be used only under the
conditions allowed by the regulations in that zone;
            2.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and/or
            3.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
         (b)   A variation shall be permitted only if the evidence, in the
judgment of the Zoning Board of Appeals, sustains each of the three conditions
enumerated above.
      (2)   The Board shall prescribe, in connection with any variation,
conditions as the Board may deem necessary in order to duly carry out the
provisions and intent of the zoning regulations.
      (3)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board is necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of an administrative
official or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
required to pass under the zoning regulations or to effect any variation
therein or modification thereto to the appropriate authorities.
      (4)   Upon the report of the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Village Board
may, without further public hearing, adopt by ordinance any proposed variation
or may refer it back to the Board of Appeals for further consideration, and any
proposed variation which fails to receive the approval of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall not be passed, except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of the
Village Board.
      (5)   The variations as are granted by the Village Board shall be void if
the use is not commenced or if a building permit has not been obtained within
60 days of the granting or within the time stipulated by the Village Board.
      (6)   Every variation made by ordinance, after a hearing by the Board of
Appeals, shall be accompanied by findings of facts specifying the reason or
reasons for making the variation.
   (D)   Amendments. It shall be its duty, on appeal or on its own motion, to
determine the location of any district boundary line shown upon the Zoning Map
of the village adopted as a part of the zoning regulations, when the location
is in doubt.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.030 QUALIFICATIONS; BOND; OATH; REMOVALS FROM OFFICE.
   The members of the Development Commission shall possess the qualifications
required of other officers of the village, shall not be required to give bond,
shall take oath or affirmation of office as required by law and shall be
subject to removal from office in the same manner as other appointive offices
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 33.031 OFFICERS.
   The Mayor of the village shall have the power to designate one of the duly
appointed members of the Development Commission as the Chairperson of the
Commission. The duly appointed member of the Commission may designate one of
its own members to act as Secretary. The duties and powers of the Chairperson
and the Secretary shall be determined by rules and regulations adopted by the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 33.032 POWERS AND DUTIES; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The duties of the Development Commission are to encourage
residential, industrial and commercial development of real estate in the
village and in the unincorporated contiguous territory and to work in
coordination with the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The capacity of the Development Commission shall be advisory only,
with reports and recommendations to the Village Board.
   (B)   The Development Commission shall have no power to incur liability or,
in any way, transact business for or in the name of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 33.033 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Development Commission shall serve without compensation;
however, nothing in this section shall prohibit the Mayor and the Board of
Trustees from approving funds for necessary and proper expenses of the
Commission or to reimburse members for necessary and proper expenses.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 33.050 BOARD ESTABLISHED; STATUTORY PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   There is hereby established the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners to
act under and in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq., which
article is hereby adopted.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-1)
§ 33.051 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall consist of three
members to be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees. The term of each member shall be three years and until a successor
shall be appointed and qualified; provided that, in making the first
appointments, the term of one member shall be one year, the second member, two
years and the third member, three years. Each term will expire with the end of
the fiscal year. No appointment shall be made by the Mayor within 30 days
before the expiration of the Mayor’s term of office.
   (B)   One member shall be a representative citizen of the employee class,
one member of the employing class and one member not identified with either
group. No person shall be appointed who holds a paid office of the United
States, the state or of any municipality, and no more than two members shall
belong to the same political party.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-2)
§ 33.052 QUALIFICATIONS; BOND; OATH; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The members of the Board shall possess the qualifications required of other
officers of the village and shall give bond in a sum as prescribed by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees, shall take oath or affirmation of office as required by
law, and shall be subject to removal from office in the same manner as other
appointive offices of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-3)
§ 33.053 SECRETARY TO THE BOARD.
   The Board may employ a Secretary or may designate on of its own members to
act as such. The Secretary’s duties shall be governed by law. He or she shall
receive as his or her compensation sums as the Village Board may, in accordance
with the annual appropriation ordinance, from time to time, provide.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-4)
§ 33.054 POWERS AND DUTIES; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The Board’s powers and duties are to be governed by the
provisions laid down by law.
   (B)   Appointment of full-time members of Fire and Police Departments. The
Board shall appoint all full-time officers and full-time members of the Fire
and Police Departments of the village, if any, except those appointments which
the Village Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, otherwise provide. The
appointments of the Chief of the full-time Fire Department, if any, and the
Chief of Police shall be made by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Annual report. The Board shall, on or before the last regular meeting
of the Village Board in March of each year, make to the Mayor, to be by him or
her transmitted to the Village Board, a report of its actions and duties, rules
in force and the practical effect thereof, and may, in the report, make
suggestions as the Board believes will result in the greater efficiency of the
Fire and Police Departments.
   (D)   Limitations. The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall have no
jurisdiction nor authority over members of the village auxiliary police or
Volunteer Fire Department as provided in
Chapters 34 and
35 of this code, and no regulation, provision or order of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners shall apply to or regulate the conduct of, appointment to
or removal of members of the auxiliary police or Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-5)
§ 33.055 COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Fire and Police Commission shall receive as compensation
for the faithful discharge of his or her duties compensation for each meeting
he or she attends, as provided in the annual appropriation ordinance; however,
compensation shall not be paid for more than 12 meetings in any given fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-6)
POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 33.070 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND ELECTION; TERMS.
   The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall consist of five
members, two appointed by the Village Mayor and two elected by the members of
the Police Department and one elected by the beneficiaries of the Pension Fund.
Until one member of the Board qualifies by virtue of being a beneficiary of the
Fund, the Board shall consist of four members aforesaid. The elections shall be
held on the third Monday in April and the term of each member shall be two
years.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 33.071 MEETINGS.
   The Pension Board shall meet at least quarterly as provided by law and shall
hold additional meetings as may be called by the President of the Pension
Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-2)
§ 33.072 DUTIES.
   The Pension Board shall perform the duties required of the Board pursuant to
the State Pension Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-3)
COMMUNITY RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
§ 33.110 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the Community Relations Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 828, passed 12-18-1980)
§ 33.111 COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment; term.
      (1)   The Community Relations Department shall consist of a Community
Relations Officer appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The term of the Community Relations Officer shall be as announced
by the Mayor at the time of appointment and shall not exceed four years or the
remaining portion of the Mayor’s term of office, whichever is shorter.
   (B)   Qualifications; oath; bond; removal from office.
      (1)   The Community Relations Officer shall possess the qualifications
required of other officers of the village, shall be required to give bond,
shall take oath or affirmation of office as required by law and shall be
subject to removal from office by the Mayor in the same manner as other
appointive officers of the village.
      (2)   The Community Relations Officer may also be an appointed official,
serving in another position, or an employed person of the village and may act
in the further capacity as Community Relations Officer. The compensation
provided herein shall be in addition to that compensation applicable to the
Community Relations Officer’s other position and/or employment.
      (3)   No elected official of the village shall be eligible to serve as
Community Relations Officer.
   (C)   Powers and duties; limitations.
      (1)   Powers and duties generally. The Community Relations Officer will
perform services on behalf of the village, as directed by the Mayor and Board
of Trustees, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Providing public information to residents and business persons
of the village as to village activities and programs;
         (b)   Promoting safety programs for residents, business persons and
children of the village in order to assist in the protection of persons and
properties in the village;
         (c)   Conducting “Officer Friendly” type programs intended to inform
children of school ages as to the operation of the Village’s Police Department
and other law enforcement agencies;
         (d)   Performing public appearances with, and before, civic,
neighborhood, business, religious and charitable organizations in the village
for the purpose of providing information as to the aforesaid and other programs
and to receive inquiries, recommendations, suggestions and proposals for
consideration and action by appropriate village officials and employees;
         (e)   Undertaking responses to requests for information as to village
activities, subject to the legal responsibilities of others applicable thereto
as provided by the village code and the State Municipal Code;
         (f)   Serving as a liaison between departments, boards and commissions
of the village for the purpose of assuring a unified effort in promoting the
efficient operation of village government and the welfare and safety of its
residents and business persons;
         (g)   Promulgating the publication of information as to public safety
and protection activities and programs in the village;
         (h)   Assisting in the preparation, as required, of grant assistance
applications and duty benefits claims involving public safety personnel,
equipment and buildings; and
         (i)   Attending meetings of the Mayor and Board of Trustees for the
purpose of receiving directions therefrom and public participation thereat.
      (2)   Reports required. Not less than once each fiscal year and at any
other times as requested by the Mayor or Board of Trustees, the Community
Relations Officer shall provide a written report of his or her services,
activities, programs and duties, together with his or her recommendations, and
the proposals received from others as to additional and further Community
Relations Department activities, plans and studies.
      (3)   Limitations on powers. The Community Relations Officer shall have
no power to incur liability or, in any way, transact business for or in the
name of the village.
   (D)   Compensation. The Community Relations Officer shall receive
compensation as prescribed and approved at the time of appointment or as
recited, from time to time, in the appropriation ordinance of the village. Upon
approval by the Mayor and Village Board, funds may be paid for necessary and
proper expenses of the Community Relations Department and the Community
Relations Officer, upon the same approval, may be reimbursed for necessary and
proper expenses.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2) (Ord. 828, passed 12-18-1980)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 33.125 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Emergency Management Agency (referred to
herein as “EMA”) to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage
resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile
action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in accordance with “The
Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act of 2002”.
   (B)   This EMA shall consist of the coordinator and additional members as
may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.126 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the EMA shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall
serve until removed by same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the EMA subject to the direction and
control of the Mayor as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him or her, shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.127 FUNCTIONS.
   The EMA shall perform EMA functions within the village as shall be
prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the Governor,
and orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor, and in
addition shall perform duties outside the corporate limits as may be required
pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision,
municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in “The Illinois
EMA Act of 2002”.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.128 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the EMA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State EMA as
provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of the mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the EMA organization.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to the employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from
the state reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.129 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of EMA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
villages, cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no agreement shall
be effective until it has been approved by the Mayor and by the State Director
of EMA.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.130 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the EMA to
cooperate fully with the State EMA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.131 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the EMA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in the training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held;
members who are not the village employees or officers shall receive for the
training time the compensation as may be established by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.132 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the EMA as prescribed by the State Director of EMA, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of EMA, as
provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to EMA
activities as provided by law.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.133 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   The Mayor may, on recommendation of the village coordinator of EMA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of the
disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.134 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the EMA organization
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribed to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
      I,                                              , do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and facilities thereof, both public
and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this
obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and
that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to
enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor
have I been a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Crestwood EMA
organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.135 OFFICE FACILITY.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a village building, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Mayor for the EMA as its office.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 33.136 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Mayor and Village Board of Trustees may make an appropriation for EMA
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for EMA
purposes only, a tax not to exceed $.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all
taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by “The Illinois
EMA Act of 2002”; however, the amount collectible under the levy shall in no
event exceed 0.250 per capita.
(Ord. 1878, passed 3-16-2006)
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
§ 33.150 RECITALS.
   The facts and statements contained in the preamble of Ordinance 2012 are
found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012, passed 7-1-2010)
§ 33.151 BOARD, COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of seven members, of which five members shall
serve ex officio. The following Village officials shall serve as Board Members,
ex officio:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The Chief of Police;
      (3)   The Fire Chief;
      (4)   The Emergency Services Director; and
      (5)   The Village Services Director.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint two Village Trustees as Board Members to serve
for one-year terms or until the end of their terms as Trustees, whichever
occurs first.
(Ord. 2012, passed 7-1-2010)
§ 33.152 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2012, passed 7-1-2010)
CHAPTER 34: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Department established; composition
   
34.02   Chief of Police
   
34.03   Division Chiefs
   
34.04   Sergeants
   
34.05   Bond and oath
   
34.06   Police officers; powers and duties
   
34.07   Neglect of duties; complaints
   
34.08   Seized property
   
34.09   Work period; hours
   
34.10   Vacations and leaves
   
34.11   Additional employment
   
34.12   Resignations, suspensions and discharges
   
34.13   Rewards prohibited
   
34.14   Badges
   
34.15   Police Pension Fund
   
34.16   Resisting police; assistance required
   
34.17   Director of Support Services
   
34.18   Part-time police officers; auxiliary police
   
34.19   Juvenile officer
   
34.20   Residency
   
34.21   South Suburban Major Crimes Task Force
   
34.22   South Suburban Emergency Response Team (SSERT) Joint Task Force
Cross-reference:
Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, see §§
33.050 through
33.055
Police Pension Fund Board of Trustees, see §§
33.070 through
33.072
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the village which
shall be known as the “Department of Police”. The Department shall embrace the
offices and positions hereinafter enumerated and such others as may be provided
for, from time to time, in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (A)   Police officers. There is hereby created the position of Chief of
Police, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the concurrence of the Board
of Trustees as provided in §
34.02 and the position of up to 18 full-time police officers of the Police
Department. The order of ranking of the members of the Police Department shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Chief of Police;
      (2)   Two Division Chiefs;
      (3)   Six Sergeants;
      (4)   Police officers.
   (B)   Animal Care Section. There is hereby created a section of the
Department to be known as the Animal Care Section which shall consist of a
Poundkeeper and such other employees as the Fire and Police Commission shall
assign thereto. The Poundkeeper shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees and shall operate under the provisions of
the village ordinances relating to animals.
   (C)   Women employees. As deemed practicable by the Chief of Police, women
employees or officers of the Department or auxiliary police women shall have
charge of female prisoners confined in the village jail.
   (D)   Auxiliary Police. Auxiliary police, as authorized by the State
Municipal Code, shall be appointed as provided by §
34.16.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 1345, passed 8-19-1993; Ord. 1882, passed 5-4-2006;
Ord. 2135, passed 11-7- 2013; Ord. 2538, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 2613, passed
11-4-2021; Ord. 2699, passed 11-2-2023; Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
concurrence of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Generally. The Chief of Police shall have the management of all
matters pertaining to the Police Department, its officers. He or she shall have
the custody and control of the officers, stations, equipment, books, records
and other property belonging to the Department. He or she shall preserve the
peace and secure good order within the village and the orders of the Mayor and
the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Books of record. The Chief of Police shall cause the following
books of record to be kept in the Department of Police: persons arrested,
accounts of moneys received and expended and the purpose thereof, all
properties placed in his or her charge, time lost by other employees of the
Police Department and other books and records as shall be required by the
business of the Department. He or she shall also cause a complete record to be
kept of all felonies committed within the village. This record shall be open at
all times to the Mayor and Board of Trustees. The complete history of each
person charged with having committed a felony shall be kept, which shall
include a record of all orders entered in the proceedings and the final
disposition thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 34.03 DIVISION CHIEFS.
   (A)   Designation. The Chief of Police is authorized, but not required, to
designate up to two Division Chiefs for the Police Department in his or her
sole discretion. Only full-time police officers shall be eligible for
designation as Division Chief.
   (B)   Assignment. Division Chiefs shall sen e in such capacity and perform
those duties assigned to him or her by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Command staff duties. It is the express intent of this provision to
provide the Chief of Police with the ability to designate specific individual
full-time police officers to serve as part of his or her command staff and to
assist him or her in performing his or her duties as the Chief of Police.
Division Chiefs may exercise command authority over other officers when
directed by the Chief of Police.
   (D)   Term and removal. The Chief of Police can remove and reassign the
duties of any Division Chief to any other full-time police officer at any time
and for any reason or no reason at all, provided that such reassignment shall
not have any effect on said Division Chiefs office and rank as a full-time
police officer of the village.
   (E)   Compensation. Division Chiefs shall receive a salary as provided by
the corporate authorities through an ordinance.
(Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.04 SERGEANTS.
   (A)   Designation. Sergeants may be designated by appointment or promotion
by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the village in accordance with
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the village’s rules and
regulations and applicable law. The Department of Police shall consist of no
more than six members ranked Sergeant at any given time.
   (B)   Duties of Sergeants. The Sergeants of the Police Department shall
function effectively within the framework of written policy, in the specific
positions as assigned by their commanding officers, and within the chain of
command.
   (C)   Compensation. Sergeants are full-time police officers and shall
receive all compensation due to them on account of that office. Further,
insofar as Sergeants may be assigned additional duties beyond their normal
duties as full-time police officers, they shall receive such additional
compensation as the corporate authorities may provide by ordinance.
(Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.05 BOND AND OATH.
   Prior to entering upon his or her duties as a police officer for the
village, a member of the Department shall file and have approved a bond and
oath as provided by law and the rules and regulations of the Fire and Police
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.06 POLICE OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The members of the police force, while on duty, shall
devote their full time and attention to the discharge of their duties according
to the laws of the state, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules and
regulations of the Department to preserve order, peace and quiet and to enforce
the laws throughout the village.
   (B)   Arrests. The members of the police force shall have the power to
arrest all persons in the village found in the act of violating any law or
aiding and abetting in any violation and shall arrest any person found under
circumstances which would warrant a reasonable person in believing that the
person had committed or is about to commit a crime.
   (C)   Serve warrants and processes. The members of the police force shall
have power and authority and it shall be their duty to serve and execute
warrants and other processes in the village for the summoning, apprehension and
commitment of any person charged with violation of any ordinance of the village
or with any crime or misdemeanor or offense against the laws of the village or
state.
   (D)   Assist Fire Department. It shall be the duty of members of the police
force to aid the Fire Department by giving alarms in case of fire and by
clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity of a fire so that the
members of the Fire Department shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
   (E)   Street excavations; exhibit of permit. It shall be the duty of every
police officer, on observing or being informed of an opening or excavation of
any public way, to require the person making the opening or excavation to
exhibit the authority or permission therefor. If none has been given by the
proper office or if the exhibition thereof be refused, the police officer
shall, without delay, report the same to the Commissioner of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.07 NEGLECT OF DUTIES; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   “Neglect of duty” defined. NEGLECT OF DUTY is the refusal or neglect
to perform duty, hindrance, obstruction or impairment, in any way, of the
proper and strict enforcement of any law or of the efficiency of the police
force. Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to
perform any duty required of him or her by the provisions of this subchapter or
by the rules and regulations of the Department or who shall, in the discharge
of his or her official duties, be accused, in writing, of the commission of any
crime shall be referred to the Fire and Police Commission for appropriate
hearing, action, suspension or discharge as provided by law.
   (B)   Complaints. All complaints regarding officers and members of the
Department shall be forwarded to the Fire and Police Commission for
investigation and action deemed necessary as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.08 SEIZED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Custodian; records kept; disposition.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of all property which may
be seized or otherwise taken possession of by the police force. The custody and
disposition of all personal property believed to be abandoned, lost or stolen
or otherwise illegally possessed which shall be in the custody of the Village
Police Department and the Chief of Police shall be disposed of by the Chief of
Police in accordance with the provisions of “An Act Relating to Custody and
Disposition of Certain Property Possessed by Law Enforcement Agencies”,
heretofore approved on 8-21-1963, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 141, §§ 141 through 146.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of division (A)(1) above,
if any property so seized or taken shall be of a perishable nature or so bulky
or of a nature as to make it dangerous or inadvisable to retain possession
thereof for the length of time herein set forth, the Chief of Police, with the
approval of the Chairperson of the Fire and Police Commission, may cause the
property to be advertised immediately and shall sell the property at public
auction at any time after three days shall have elapsed from the seizure or
taking thereof.
      (3)   The proceeds of any sale, after deducting the costs and expenses
incident thereto, shall be paid to the Village Treasurer for deposit to the
corporate account of the village.
   (B)   Seized weapons. None of the provisions of division (A) above shall
apply to pistols, revolvers, knives, metallic knuckles or other deadly weapons
of like character. All weapons, except those that the Chief of Police shall
deem to be of use to the Department, within six months after their receipt,
shall be disposed of as provided by state law or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.09 WORK PERIOD; HOURS.
   (A)   The work period for officers of the Village Police Department shall be
28 consecutive days.
   (B)   The maximum hours to be worked by officers of the Police Department
during the work period, 28 days, shall not exceed 171 hours.
   (C)   Members of the Police Department shall be subject to call and
assignment of duty within the work period as directed by the Police Chief.
   (D)   The limitations provided by division (B) above shall not apply to
executive, administrative or professional employees of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8) (Ord. 790, passed 1-3-1980; Ord. 967, passed 4-18-1985;
Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.10 VACATIONS AND LEAVES.
   (A)   Vacations.
      (1)   Vacations, at full pay and as scheduled by the Chief of Police, may
be allowed upon the following basis:
         (a)   After one year of full-time duty: one week of vacation may be
permitted;
         (b)   After two years of full-time duty: two weeks of vacation may be
permitted; and
         (c)   After five years of full-time duty: three weeks of vacation may
be permitted.
      (2)   Any and all vacations, or portions thereof, may be cancelled or
postponed upon order of the Police Chief in the event of emergency or
Department necessity.
   (B)   Sick leaves. Sick leaves shall be governed by the rules and
regulations of the Fire and Police Commission of the village.
   (C)   Leaves of absence. Leaves of absence shall be granted only by the Fire
and Police Commission as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.11 ADDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT.
   Additional employment shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the
Fire and Police Commission of the village, subject to the approval of the
Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.12 RESIGNATIONS, SUSPENSIONS AND DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Resignations. Resignations shall be submitted to the Fire and Police
Commission of the village and governed by its rules.
   (B)   Suspensions and discharges. The suspension and discharge of any member
of the Police Department shall be in accordance with the State Municipal Code
and the rules and regulations of the Fire and Police Commission of the village,
except for the Chief of Police who may be removed as Chief by the Mayor;
however, he or she shall, upon the removal, be placed in his or her highest
rank attained in the Police Department as provided by the State Municipal Code
and the rules and regulations of the Fire and Police Commission.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-11) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.13 REWARDS PROHIBITED.
   No member of the Police Department shall receive or accept any rewards by
reason of his or her performance of duty, and any rewards, otherwise paid or
payable to a member of the Department, shall be paid to the Village Treasurer
for deposit to the corporate account of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-12) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.14 BADGES.
   (A)   Every member of the Police Department shall wear a suitable badge to
be furnished by the village and any member who shall lose or destroy the same
shall be required to pay the cost of replacing it.
   (B)   Whenever any member shall leave the Department, he or she shall
immediately deliver his or her badge to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-13) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.15 POLICE PENSION FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There shall be a Police Pension Fund established in
the village as provided by law.
   (B)   Fund to be separate; tax levied.
      (1)   The money in the Police Pension Fund shall be held in a separate
account by the Village Treasurer as provided by statute.
      (2)   This Fund shall consist of the deductions from the pay of police
officer subject to the Act, as provided by statute, and there shall be annually
levied a tax sufficient to enable the Police Pension Fund to meet all its
obligations.
   (C)   Reserve; tax levied.
      (1)   There shall be established and maintained a reserve in the Police
Pension Fund, as required by statute.
      (2)   This reserve shall be built up to an amount of at least $10,000 for
each police officers and each beneficiary entitled to the protection of the
Pension Fund, and sufficient tax shall be levied for the benefit of the Pension
Fund to build this reserve up to the required amount within the 40 years
following 7-17-1959, as prescribed in ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5 §§ 3-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-14) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.16 RESISTING POLICE; ASSISTANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Resisting police; aid in escape. No person shall resist any officer of
the Police Department in the discharge of his or her duties nor shall, in any
way, interfere with or hinder or prevent him or her from discharging his or her
duty as the officer, nor shall offer or endeavor to do so, and nor shall, in
any manner, assist any person in the custody of any member of the police force
to escape or attempt to escape from the custody, nor attempt to rescue any
person in custody.
   (B)   Assistance to police. It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over
the age of 18 years to refuse or neglect to render assistance or aid to any
police officer when called upon for the assistance or aid in the suppression of
riot or other unlawful assemblage or in the arrest of any person.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-15) (Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.17 DIRECTOR OF SUPPORT SERVICES.
   (A)   Created. The position of the Director of Support Services is hereby
created.
      (1)   The Director of Support Services shall be appointed by the Mayor
for an annual term of May 1 to April 30 subject to posting bond and oath.
      (2)   The Director of Support Services shall serve as an “at will”
employee of the village, at the pleasure of the Mayor.
      (3)   The Director of Support Services shall be a civilian position with
the duties as are designated by the Chief of Police from time to time.
      (4)   The Director of Support Services shall report to the Chief of
Police.
      (5)   The salary of the Director of Support Services shall be set by
ordinance.
   (B)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and approval as provided by law and shall be published in
pamphlet form by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2007, passed 4-15-2010; Ord. 2747, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 34.18 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS; AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (A)   Part-time police.
      (1)   Employment. The Mayor and Board of Trustees may employ part-time
police officers from time to time as they deem necessary and, in the case of
emergency, the Mayor may appoint part-time police officers to do all things
necessary to preserve the peace of the village.
      (2)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the General Orders of the Crestwood Police Department, but shall
not work in excess of 1,560 hours per calendar year. Part-time police officers
shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police officers, nor be
used as permanent replacement for permanent full-time officers. Part-time
police officers shall be trained in accordance with the Intergovernmental Law
Enforcement Officer's In-Service Training Act, ILCS Ch.50, Act 720, §§ 1-6.
      (3)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound
health, and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
         (b)   Be at least 21 years of age;
         (c)   Meet fitness standards established by the Police Officer
Wellness Evaluation Report ("Power Test");
         (d)   Pass a medical examination;
         (e)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
         (f)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license;
         (g)   Be a citizen of the United States;
         (h)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. Military must have
been honorably discharged.
         (i)   If first appointed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees as a
police officer or part-time police officer after January 1, 2013, have served
the required probationary period as probationary part-time police officer
pursuant to division (A)(5) below.
      (4)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the Mayor and the Board of Trustees, shall not have any property
rights in said employment, may be removed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees at
any time. Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and
General Orders issued by the Police Department.
      (5)   Probationary part-time police officers. No individual who has not
previously been appointed a police officer or part-time police officer of the
village by the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall be eligible to serve as a
part-time police officer until such individual has completed his or her
required probationary period as a probationary part-time police officer of the
village. Probationary police officers shall have the same duties as part-time
police officers, as specified in division (A)(2), and shall be subject to the
same hiring standards and discipline standards of part-time police officers as
specified in divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4), respectively. Provided, however, no
individual shall be required to have previously served as a probationary part-
time police officer in order to be hired as a probationary part-time police
officer. The authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees to employ and appoint
part-time police officers specified in division (A)(1) extends to probationary
part-time police officers. As used in this section, the term REQUIRED
PROBATIONARY PERIOD shall mean:
         (a)   A period ending six months from the date of appointment by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees in the case of an individual who has either:
            1.   Been awarded a certificate attesting to his or her successful
completion of the Minimum Standards Basic Law Enforcement and County
Correctional Training Course pursuant to ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, § 8.1; or
            2.   Obtained from the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards
Board a certificate:
               A.   Attesting to his or her successful completion of the part-
time police training course prescribed by ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, § 8.2;
               B.   Attesting to his or her satisfactory completion of a
training program of similar content and number of hours that has been found
acceptable by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board pursuant to
the Illinois Police Training Act, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.; or
               C.   Attesting to the determination of the Illinois Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board that the part-time police training course
is unnecessary because of the person’s extensive prior law enforcement
experience.
         (b)   A period ending 18 months from the date of appointment by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees in the case of any other individual.
   (B)   Auxiliary police.
      (1)   Appointment. The Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees may appoint auxiliary police officers in such number as the corporate
authorities from time to time deem necessary.
      (2)   Status. Auxiliary police officers shall not be "conservators of the
peace" and shall only carry firearms with the permission of the Chief of Police
and only after completing the state certified 40-hour mandatory Firearms
Training Course as provided under ILCS Ch. 50, Act 710, § 2. Auxiliary police
officers shall not be considered to be members of the regular Police
Department, and shall not supplement members of the regular Police Department
of the village in the performance of their assigned and normal duties except as
otherwise provided herein.
      (3)   Identification symbol. Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary
police officers shall be different and distinct from those used by the regular
Police Department.
      (4)   Supervision. Auxiliary police officers shall, at all times during
the performance of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the
Chief of Police of the village.
      (5)   Powers and duties. 
         (a)   Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the
following duties in the village:
            1.   To aid or direct traffic within the municipality;
            2.   To aid in control of natural or man-made disasters; and
            3.   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the Chief of
Police.
         (b)   When it is impractical for members of the regular Police
Department to perform those normal and regular police duties, however, the
Chief of Police of the regular Police Department may assign auxiliary police
officers to perform those normal and regular police duties.
      (6)   Hiring standards. No person shall be hired as an auxiliary police
officer who has not been fingerprinted or who has been convicted of a felony or
other crime involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 2032, passed 4-7-2011; Ord. 2100, passed 1-3-2013; Ord. 2747, passed 12-
5-2024)
§ 34.19 JUVENILE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to appoint up to two part-time Juvenile
Officers, subject to the advice and approval of the Board of Trustees, to
handle all juvenile police matters within the village. There shall be no more
than two appointed Juvenile Officers at any one time.
   (B)   Each Juvenile Officer shall be a trained juvenile officer and possess
such other qualifications required of other officers of the village, shall be
required to give a bond and take oath or affirmation of office as required by
law, and shall be subject to removal from office by the Mayor in the same manor
as other appointed officers of the village.
   (C)   A Juvenile Officer shall receive compensation at a rate of $200 per
month for performing his or her duties as a trained juvenile officer and shall
be on call 24 hours per day, seven days per week.
(Ord. 2088, passed 7-19-2012; Ord. 2747, passed 12-4-2024)
§ 34.20 RESIDENCY.
   No employee or appointed member of the Department of Police or any unit,
section or division thereof including, but not limited to, any Chief of Police,
Director of Police Operations, Patroler, Full-Time Police Officer, Part-Time
Police Officer, Auxiliary Police Officer, Juvenile Officer or Poundkeeper shall
be required to reside within the village as a condition of appointment,
employment or continued employment in such capacity.
(Ord. 2121, passed 7-18-2013; Ord. 2747, passed 12-4-2024)
§ 34.21 SOUTH SUBURBAN MAJOR CRIMES TASK FORCE.
   The Village Board approved an intergovernmental agreement updating the South
Suburban Major Times Task Force on January 23, 2025. The intergovernmental
agreement, attached to Ord. 2755-25, is hereby incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 2755-25, passed 2-6-2025)
§ 34.22 SOUTH SUBURBAN EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAM (SSERT) JOINT TASK FORCE.
   The Village Board approved an intergovernmental agreement updating the South
Suburban Emergency Response Team (SSERT) Joint Task Force on January 23, 2025.
The intergovernmental agreement, attached to Ord. 2756-25, is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2756-25, passed 2-6-2025)
CHAPTER 35: FIRE SAFETY
Section
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.01   Department established; appointment; terms of office; removals
   
35.02   Oath and bond
   
35.03   Fire Chief; powers and duties
   
35.04   Work period; hours
   
35.05   Compensation
   
35.06   Books, records and equipment to successor
   
35.07   Equipment of Department
   
35.08   Fire Department fees for services; firefighting, rescue, emergency
medical services and other services provided
   
35.09   Obedience to officers; hindrance; injury to equipment
   
35.10   Disposition of funds
Fire Safety and Rescue Unit
   
35.25   Establishment; qualifications
   
35.26   Bond and oath
   
35.27   Terms of office and removal
   
35.28   Compensation
   
35.29   Duties
   
35.30   Work period
   
35.31   Uniforms
   
35.32   Residency
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, see §§
33.050 through
33.055
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVALS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of the village government
which shall be known as the Volunteer Fire Department and which shall consist
of the following officials as appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, which offices are hereby created: Fire Chief,
one Deputy Fire Chief, one Assistant Fire Chief, two Captains, eight
Lieutenants and volunteer firefighter members as deemed necessary by the Mayor.
   (B)   All members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be appointed to
terms expiring the first Thursday in May each and every year, except for
probationary members whose terms shall be for six months or until the first
Thursday in May, whichever is shorter.
   (C)   Members of the Volunteer Fire Department may be removed by the Mayor
as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 1934, passed 7-5-2007)
§ 35.02 OATH AND BOND.
   Persons appointed to the Volunteer Fire Department shall take, subscribe and
file the oath required of appointed officials of the village as prescribed by
the State Municipal Code and the village code and shall execute, file and have
approved a bond as prescribed by the State Municipal Code in an amount and of a
form designated by the Mayor at the time of appointment of a volunteer
firefighter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 35.03 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Chief shall be Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department,
subject to the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and shall have command and control
of the Department and all members thereof. He or she shall have the general
care and custody of the engines, hosecarts, hoses, trucks, hooks, ladders and
all other property and equipment of the Department and shall personally attend
to all repairs required to be made upon same.
   (B)   Command at fires.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall attend all fires occurring within the village
and take command of the organization and see that the several members of the
Volunteer Fire Department faithfully perform their respective duties. The Fire
Chief may order the tearing down of any buildings when, in any emergency, it
shall be deemed necessary to check the progress of any fire.
      (2)   The Fire Chief or other officer in command may prescribe limits in
the vicinity of any fire within which no persons, except those who reside
therein, firefighters, police officers and those admitted by order of any
officer of the Volunteer Fire Department, may be permitted to go. He or she
shall have power to cause a removal of any property whenever it shall become
necessary for the preservation of the property from fire, to prevent the
spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property.
   (C)   Records and reports. The Fire Chief shall keep, in a book to be
provided for that purpose, a full, true and complete record of all the property
and equipment of the Fire Department, together with a record of all
transactions of the Volunteer Fire Department and of all property placed in his
or her charge and custody, and he or she shall, annually, at the close of each
fiscal year, make a written report to the Mayor and Board of Trustees showing
the condition of the Department, under his or her management, together with a
complete list of all fires occurring in the village during the preceding year,
the date and location of each fire, the loss incurred thereby, the amount of
insurance and other information as he or she may deem important.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 35.04 WORK PERIOD; HOURS.
   (A)   The work period for members of the Fire Department shall be 28
consecutive days.
   (B)   The maximum hours to be worked by members of the Fire Department
during the work period, 28 days, shall not exceed 212 hours.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department shall be subject to call and assignment
of duty within the work period as directed by the Fire Chief.
   (D)   The limitations provided by division (B) above shall not apply to
executive, administrative or professional employees of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 969, passed 4-18-1985)
§ 35.05 COMPENSATION.
   The Chief and members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall receive for
their services compensation or reimbursement for expenses as designated in the
annual appropriation ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 35.06 BOOKS, RECORDS AND EQUIPMENT TO SUCCESSOR.
   On the expiration of his or her term of office or his or her resignation
thereof or removal therefrom, the Fire Chief and any member of the Volunteer
Fire Department shall immediately deliver to the Village Clerk, the Fire Chief
or his or her successor, all books, records, equipment and property of every
description in his or her possession belonging to the village or pertaining to
the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 35.07 EQUIPMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Use of equipment restricted. Unless ordered by the Village Board,
neither the fire truck nor any part of the equipment of the Volunteer Fire
Department shall be taken out of the village limits, except in answer to a fire
emergency call, and the truck shall not be used within the village limits,
except to answer fire or emergency calls or on regular drills authorized by the
Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Driving over fire hose. No wagon, railroad car or other vehicles shall
be driven over any unprotected hose of the Volunteer Fire Department when laid
down on any street or alley by order of the Fire Chief or other proper officer
without the consent of the Fire Chief or officers or members in charge of the
hose and any person violating this division shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Tampering with signal box and utility wires. No person, except those
connected with the management of the Volunteer Fire Department, shall open any
signal box unless it be to communicate an alarm of fire, or break, cut, deface,
derange or in any manner meddle or interfere with any signal box, or fire
alarm, telegraph or telephone wires.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.08 FIRE DEPARTMENT FEES FOR SERVICES; FIREFIGHTING, RESCUE, EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES AND OTHER SERVICES PROVIDED.
   (A)   Areas of response and service authorized and designated.
      (1)   Firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services authorized;
Village of Crestwood; area designated. The village Fire Department shall
respond to provide and perform industry standard firefighting, rescue and
emergency medical services, limited by reasonable capability within the
corporate boundaries of the village, as directed by the Chief of Department,
his or her designee, and/or Department directives.
      (2)   Firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services authorized;
mutual aid, automatic aid, and MABAS (mutual aid box alarm system) member
departments authorized: area designated. The village Fire Department shall
respond to provide and perform industry standard firefighting, rescue and
emergency medical services, limited by reasonable capability in jurisdictions
outside the village, as approved through mutual aid agreements, automatic aid
agreements and MABAS member department agreements, as directed by the Chief of
Department, his or her designee, and/or Department directives.
      (3)   Firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services authorized;
statewide and nationwide deployments authorized; area designated. The village
Fire Department shall be capable to respond to provide and perform industry
standard firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services, limited by
reasonable capability in areas of the State of Illinois and the United States
of America, outside of the local MABAS member department jurisdictions, as
directed by the Chief of Department, his or her designee, and/or Department
directives and approved by the Mayor/Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ).
      (4)   Firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services authorized;
unincorporated areas, proximal to the boundaries of the village.
         (a)   The village Fire Department shall be capable to respond to
provide and perform industry standard firefighting, rescue and emergency
medical services, limited by reasonable capability in unincorporated areas
proximal to the corporate boundaries of the village. In such areas, it is
reasonable to conclude that, based on emergency call routing and proximity to
the village that the village Fire Department is the primary response agency for
such emergencies. Such responses shall be under the direction of the Chief of
Department, his or her designee, and/or Department directives.
         (b)   Unincorporated areas proximal to the boundaries of the village
defined. The area defined in division (A)(4) shall include 143rd Street (14300
S) to the south, Ridgeland Ave (6400 W) to the west, village limits/Cook County
Forest Preserve District to the north and village limits/Village of Midlothian
limits to the east.
      (B)   Fire Department Fee Schedule for providing equipment and personnel.
Unless otherwise specified in ordinance, and where applicable, the fee schedule
for Fire Department responses shall be standard and as follows:
 
Description                                                   Rate of Charge
Each fire apparatus (including mutual aid/automatic aid)      $100 per hour
Each chief fire officer (including mutual aid/automatic aid)  $50 per hour
Use of extrication tools and support                          $250 per hour
Technical rescue team operations, including Haz-Mat, confined $1,000 per hour
space, high angle, trench, building collapse and water rescue
 
   (C)   Fees for firefighting and rescue services in unincorporated areas
proximal to the boundaries of the village, as defined in division (A)(4) above.
      (1)   Agreement to provide firefighting and rescue services. Residential
and commercial property owners who own or manage property described in division
(A)(4) above shall be required to enter into an agreement with the village to
provide primary firefighting and rescue services. The agreement shall be on an
annual basis and incur a fee of $75. The Village Clerk shall ensure that
documentation is provided pursuant to the agreement from owners/managers, fees
are collected, and all valid agreements are documented and provided to the
Chief of Department.
      (2)   Failure to secure agreement to provide firefighting and rescue
services. Residential and commercial property owners who own or manage property
described in division (A)(4) above, and fail to secure a valid agreement with
the village to provide primary firefighting and rescue services, are subject to
fees should a response occur. Fees for response in this instance are as
follows:
         (a)   $150 for each fire apparatus (including mutual/automatic aid)
that responds to the scene for the first hour (or less).
         (b)   $100 for each fire apparatus (including mutual/automatic aid)
that responds to the scene for each additional hour (or portion thereof).
         (c)   $50 for each chief fire officer (including mutual/automatic aid)
that responds to the scene for each hour (or portion thereof).
   (D)   Fire Department fees for extrication/heavy or technical rescue. Fees
associated with any extrication operation or heavy/technical rescue operation
shall be charged at the rates defined in division (B) above. Fees shall be
charged to the property owner or responsible party associated with the
incident.
   (E)   Fire Department fees for removal/mitigation of hazardous materials.
Fees associated with any operation that involves the removal or mitigation of
hazardous materials shall be charged at the rates defined in division (B)
above, as well as any village ordinance that involves provisions for the
removal of released hazardous materials (i.e., “spiller pays”). Fees shall be
charged to the property owner or responsible party associated with the
incident.
   (F)   Fire Department fees for emergency medical services.
      (1)   Emergency medical services and transport rates of charge. Fees
associated with the response and performance of emergency medical services,
provided by the village Fire Department in any jurisdiction shall be standard
and as follows:
Description Rate of Charge
Description                                   Rate of Charge
Basic Life Support Transport                  $1,500
Advanced Life Support 1 Transport (ALS1)      $1,500
Advanced Life Support 2 Transport (ALS2)      $1,800
Treatment Non-Transport - Refusal (TNT)       $300
DOA Non-Transport                             $300
DOA Transport                                 $1,500
Termination in Field - Non-Transport          $750
Ground Mileage - in any event                 $20 / Mile
Oxygen Use - in any event                     $50
Medication Administration - in any/each event $150
 
      (2)   Acceptance of Medicare/Medicaid. The village will accept payments
from Medicare or Medicaid at approved rates for fees associated with emergency
medical services.
      (3)   Acceptance of private insurance. The village will accept payments
from any private insurance carrier/plan for fees associated with emergency
medical services.
      (4)   Acceptance of payment by individuals. The village will accept
payments from individuals for fees associated with emergency medical services.
      (5)   Sums remaining after payment/reimbursement.
         (a)   Sums remaining after payment/reimbursement from Medicare,
Medicaid or private insurance shall be billed to non-residents (“balance
billed”). Residents of the village shall not be billed for any sum remaining
after Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance payment/reimbursement (“balance
billed”).
         (b)   A RESIDENT is defined as any person with normal/permanent
residence in the 60418 zip code.
   (G)   Fire Department fees for lift assists/civilian assists.
      (1)   Fire Department lift assists/civilian assists rates of charge. Fees
associated with the response and performance of lift assists/civilian assists,
provided by the Fire Department in any capacity, in any jurisdiction shall be
standard and as follows:
 
Description                           Rate of Charge
Assist of an individual               $300 after the 3rd call for service in an
                                      calendar year
Assist of an individual at a licensed $750 in any event
care institution
 
      (2)   Lift assists/civilian assists defined. A LIFT ASSIST/CIVILIAN
ASSIST is defined as any event whereby members of the village Fire Department
are tasked with:
         (a)   Lifting or moving a person in or around home, residence,
facility, workplace, or any other place they are attending.
         (b)   Lifting or moving a person to or from a home, residence,
facility, workplace or any other place they are attending to a vehicle, public
or private.
      (3)   Licensed care institution defined. A LICENSED CARE INSTITUTION is
defined as any facility which provides for the continued care of individuals
and is staffed continually to provide assistance and/or care during any hours.
This includes: hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, assisted living centers,
group homes, rehabilitation facilities and any other like facilities.
      (4)   Responsibility of charges for lift assists/civilian assists.
Charges for lift assist/civilian assist services shall be responsibility of the
individual, or in the case of a lift assist at a licensed care institution, the
facility who is requesting the assistance.
   (H)   Fire Department fees for miscellaneous responses.
      (1)   Automobile accidents. A fee of $200 may be charged to any
individual involved in a motor vehicle accident, where services where provided
to them by the village Fire Department.
      (2)   Automobile/mobile property fires. A fee of $300 may be charged to
any owner of an automobile or other mobile property which the village Fire
Department responds to, due to fire or other dangerous condition associated
with the property. This includes wash downs/mitigation of materials leaking or
spilled from the automobile or other mobile property.
   (I)   Fire Department fees for loss/damage to equipment. In any event where
services are provided by the village Fire Department, where damage or loss of
equipment or materials occurs due to the response or operation conducted by the
Department, the Department may charge the owner or responsible party associated
with the incident for the cost to recoup or replace said equipment. This
applies to both disposable materials and non-disposable equipment. Any charge
for such items or materials shall not exceed market value to replace, as
determined by the Chief of the Department.
   (J)   Emergency and non-emergency responses. In any situation where the
village Fire Department is called for service, and the resulting response/
operation constitutes a charge for service, no differentiation shall be made on
whether the response was classified as an emergency response or non-emergency
response.
   (K)   Service runs with land. For the purposes of this section, any
reference to “property” shall also extend to the lands associated with
ownership of the property. This applies to any agreement between the village
and a party or any property that incurs a charge for services provided by the
village Fire Department.
   (L)   Responsibility and authority of the Chief of the Department.
      (1)   Responsibility of the Chief of the Department. It shall be the
responsibility of the Chief of the village Fire Department, or his or her
designee, to ensure applicable charges for services provided are administered
to responsible parties on behalf of the village.
      (2)   Authority of the Chief of the Department. The Chief of the village
Fire Department shall have the authority to enforce collections from applicable
parties for charges stemming from services provided, as well as the authority
to waive charges for good cause, on behalf of the village.
   (M)   Non-liability of village/Fire Department.
      (1)   Neither the village, its officials, employees or any member of the
village Fire Department shall be under any liability for any failure to respond
to a call for service to any of the premises covered by the terms of this
section or for any act performed or the failure to act when responding to a
call or on the premises in response thereto.
      (2)   Furthermore, the subject property owner or owners shall indemnify
and hold harmless the village and all of the village’s officers, agents, and
employees from any damages, judgments, expenses or costs of any type
whatsoever, including legal fees and costs incurred by the village, or any of
its officers, agents or employees, arising by virtue of the providing of, or
failure to provide firefighting, rescue, emergency medical services or other
services to the owner or occupant of a property.
(Ord. 2750, passed 12-19-2024)
§ 35.09 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICERS; HINDRANCE; INJURY TO EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Required obedience to officers. Every person who shall be present at a
fire shall be subject and obedient to the orders of the Fire Chief and other
officers of the Volunteer Fire Department engaged in extinguishing the fire and
in the removal and protection of property.
   (B)   Hindering officers, injuring equipment prohibited. No person shall
willfully hinder any officer or firefighter in the performance of his or her
duty at a fire nor shall willfully, in any manner, destroy, injure or deface
any fire apparatus belonging to the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.10 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All moneys received by reason of activities of the Volunteer Fire Department
shall be paid to the Village Treasurer for deposit to the corporate account of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
FIRE SAFETY AND RESCUE UNIT
§ 35.25 ESTABLISHMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There is hereby established, as a unit of the Volunteer Fire Department, the
Volunteer Part-Time Fire Safety and Rescue Unit, which shall consist of the
following volunteer and part-time officials as appointed by the Mayor, subject
to the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees: commander, who shall be the
Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department, deputy commanders and other
members as deemed necessary by the Mayor. All members of this Unit, prior to
and during the terms of their appointments, shall be members of the Volunteer
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-1) (Ord. 1001, passed 5-1-1986)
§ 35.26 BOND AND OATH.
   Persons appointed to positions in the Volunteer Part-Time Fire and Safety
Rescue Unit shall take, subscribe and file the oath required of appointed
officials of the village as prescribed by the State Municipal Code and the
village code and shall execute, file and have approved, a bond as prescribed by
the State Municipal Code in an amount and of a form designated by the Mayor at
the time of appointment. The “oath” shall acknowledge the appointee’s
acceptance of this volunteer part-time official position in the village,
subject to the conditions and provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-2) (Ord. 1001, passed 5-1-1986)
§ 35.27 TERMS OF OFFICE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Terms. All members of the Volunteer Part-Time Fire Safety and Rescue
Unit shall be temporarily appointed for terms of office not exceeding six
months. Members may be reappointed at the expiration of their terms of
appointment.
   (B)   Removal. Members of the Unit may be removed by the Mayor as provided
by the State Municipal Code and the village code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-3) (Ord. 1001, passed 5-1-1986)
§ 35.28 COMPENSATION.
   The commander, deputy commanders and other members of the Volunteer Part-
Time Fire Safety and Rescue Unit shall be paid in the amounts prescribed by
village ordinance for each hour of part-time service as assigned for duty,
subject to the limitations in hours of service stated in §
35.30. This compensation shall be in lieu of any expense, reimbursement or
other compensation due to the Unit member on a “per call”, or other, basis for
services during the same hours.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-4) (Ord. 1001, passed 5-1-1986)
§ 35.29 DUTIES.
   Members of the Volunteer Part-Time Fire Safety and Rescue Unit shall be
assigned to and stationed, while on duty, in the Fire Station and shall perform
the duties assigned to and required of them as members of the Volunteer Fire
Department, including responses to fire alarms, rescue calls and life safety
emergencies, and shall also perform the duties of protecting lives and property
as directed of them by the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department, serving as
commander of this Unit, and by the Unit’s deputy commanders.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-5) (Ord. 1001, passed 5-1-1986)
§ 35.30 WORK PERIOD.
   (A)   The work period for all members of the Volunteer Part-Time Fire Safety
and Rescue Unit shall be 28 consecutive days.
   (B)   The hours of assigned part-time service by members for this volunteer
part-time Unit shall not exceed, first, 76 hours during the described 28-days’
work period, and, second, for those members of this Unit who also work for the
village in any other position, shall also not exceed the number of hours
(subject to the initial limitation of 76 hours) which, when added to the other
hours worked for the village by the Unit member, totals more than 212 hours for
the described 28-days’ work period, it being the intention of this limitation
to restrict the number of hours that may be worked in all positions for the
village by any employee, during the described 28-day work period, to the
prescribed 212 hours defined for firefighters by the “Federal Fair Labor
Standards Act”.
   (C)   Subject to the limitations stated, specific duty hours within a
described work period shall be as assigned by the Unit commander or deputy
commanders.
   (D)   The hours of this service by Unit members, subject to the limitations
stated in this section, shall be as assigned during designated times within the
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., as the members may be available for service,
subject to time restrictions by reasons of their regular employment.
   (E)   Since Unit members’ services are both voluntary and part-time, no Unit
member will be removed from office, or disciplined, solely by reason of this
unavailability for service at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-6) (Ord. 1001, passed 5-1-1986)
§ 35.31 UNIFORMS.
   By reason of their continuing service as members of the Volunteer Fire
Department of the village, Unit members, during their service, shall wear their
prescribed uniforms of the Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-7) (Ord. 1001, passed 5-1-1986)
§ 35.32 RESIDENCY.
   No employee or appointed member of the Volunteer Fire Department or any unit
or division thereof including, but not limited to, any Fire Chief, Deputy Fire
Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, Captain, Lieutenant, Commander, Deputy Commander
or Volunteer Firefighter shall be required to reside within the village as a
condition of appointment, employment or continued employment in such capacity.
(Ord. 2121, passed 7-18-2013)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Civil Emergencies
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Declaration of emergency; procedures
 
   
36.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Emergency Management Agency, see §§
33.125 through
33.136
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village during
the hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
   EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute the force by three or more persons acting together without authority
of law.
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, nuclear explosion or other
explosion within the corporate limits of the village resulting in the death or
injury of persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that
extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 989, passed 9-1-1985)
§ 36.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Declaration of emergency.
      (1)   In accordance with the definitions stated in §
36.01 and pursuant to the standards, the Mayor may determine when a state of
emergency exists and upon the determination, the Mayor shall sign a statement,
under oath:
         (a)   Finding that, in his or her opinion, the standards of
determining an emergency have been met;
         (b)   Setting forth facts to substantiate the findings;
         (c)   Describing the nature of the emergency; and
         (d)   Declaring that a state of emergency exists.
      (2)   This statement shall be filed by the Village Clerk as soon as
practicable.
   (B)   Curfew imposed. After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor,
the Mayor may order a general curfew to apply to such geographical areas of the
village or to the entire village as the Mayor deems advisable and applicable
during the hours of the day or night as the Mayor deems necessary in the
interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (C)   Regulations. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may
also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (6)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
      (8)   Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving
away of firearms and/or ammunition; and
      (9)   All orders as are imminently necessary for the protection of life
and property including, but not limited to, requiring evacuation of an area,
commandeering of equipment and rationing of the sale or consumption of water
and food.
   (D)   Emergency powers. During the period of a declared state of emergency,
the Mayor shall have the power to invoke any or all of the following
provisions.
      (1)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverages in a public street
or place which is publicly owned or in any motor vehicle driven or parked
thereon which is within a duly designated restricted area.
      (2)   No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club, brick or
weapon who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the person or
property of another.
      (3)   No person shall make, carry possess or use any type of “Molotov
cocktail”, gasoline or petroleum base fire bomb or other incendiary missile.
      (4)   No person shall enter any area designated by the Mayor as a
restricted area unless in the performance of official duties or with written
permission from the Mayor or the Mayor’s duly designated representative or
unless the person shall prove residence therein.
   (E)   Village records. In the event of an emergency threatening the
destruction of the vital records of the village, the Village Clerk is
authorized to select an alternative site for the storage of the village’s vital
records and for the guarding and protection of the records, which alternate
site, in the Clerk’s discretion, may be a safety deposit vault in any bank or
lending institution building in or near the village.
   (F)   Effect of emergency. A state of emergency declared, as provided by
this subchapter, shall expire not later than the adjournment of the first
regular meeting of the Village Board after the state of emergency is declared.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 989, passed 9-1-1985)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §§
36.01 and
36.02 shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a violation
continues to exist.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 989, passed 9-1-1985)
CHAPTER 37: FINANCES
Section
   
37.01   Deposit of village funds
   
37.02   Surety bonds
   
37.03   Warrants; signatures required
   
37.04   Contracts
   
37.05   Sale of property
   
37.06   Copies of documents
   
37.07   Reimbursement of expenses
   
37.08   Delinquent accounts; debts owed to the village
   
37.09   Authorized use of village vehicle
   
37.10   Personal use of vehicle
   
37.11   Payment of expenses
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 37.01 DEPOSIT OF VILLAGE FUNDS.
   All funds and money belonging to the village in the custody of the Treasurer
shall be kept upon deposit in banks and institutions as designated as
depositories for the funds and money by the Village Board of Trustees. Each
institution shall not be qualified to receive funds or money of the village
until it has furnished the corporate authorities with two copies of the last
two sworn statements of resources and liabilities which the institution is
required to furnish to the Auditor of Public Accounts or the Comptroller of
Currency, and the institutions, while acting as the depositories, shall furnish
the corporate authorities with copies of all statements of resources and
liabilities which it is required to furnish to the Auditor of Public Accounts
or to the Comptroller of Currency. The Treasurer shall be discharged from his
or her responsibility for all funds or money which he or she deposits in each
institution, while the funds and money are so deposited; provided, however,
that, the amount of the deposits shall not exceed 75% of the bank’s capital
stock and surplus and shall not exceed an amount as may be insured while upon
deposit in the savings and loan institution by the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation, and the Treasurer shall be responsible for funds or
money deposited in the institution in excess of this limitation.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 37.02 SURETY BONDS.
   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the village is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position or to the
issuance of a license or permit or the exercise of any special privilege, the
surety on the bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in the state as a surety company, in the absence of specific provision
to the contrary by the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 37.03 WARRANTS; SIGNATURES REQUIRED.
   All warrants drawn upon the Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the Clerk and must state the particular fund to which same is
chargeable and the person to whom payable and for what purpose the same was
drawn, and no money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3) (Ord. 662, passed 12-1-1977)
§ 37.04 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Formal bidding.  All contracts for supplies or capital improvements
that are not to be paid for, in whole or in part, by special assessment or
special taxation, except as otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost
of the contract shall exceed $25,000, shall be purchased from the lowest
responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless one of the
exceptions set forth in division (B) is applicable.
   (B)   Exceptions to formal bidding procedure. The formal bidding procedure,
as defined in division (A), is not required in the following cases.
      (1)   Where the goods or services to be procured are economically
procurable from only one source, such as contracts for telephone service,
electrical energy and other public utility services, books, pamphlets,
periodicals, specially designed business and research equipment and related
supplies.
      (2)   Where the services required are for professional or artistic skills
pursuant to a written contract.
      (3)   In emergencies involving public health, public safety, or where
immediate expenditure is necessary for repairs to village property in order to
protect against further loss or damage to village property, or to prevent or
minimize serious disruption in village services. Where funds of this nature are
expended in an emergency by purchase, contract, or otherwise, the Village
Trustees shall be notified of the expenditure and the justification of such
expenditure.
      (4)   Contracts for the maintenance, servicing, or provision of repair
parts for equipment that are made with the manufacturer or authorized service
agent of that equipment, where the provision of parts, maintenance or servicing
can be best performed by the manufacturer or authorized service agent, or when
such contract would otherwise be advantageous to the village.
      (5)   Where the goods or services are procured from other governmental
agencies.
      (6)   Any contract for goods, services or supplies, when it is determined
to be in the best interests of the village by a vote of two-thirds of the
Trustees then holding office.
   (C)   Advertising for bids shall be made and bids shall be submitted and
received by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4) (Ord. 1169, passed 4-5-1990; Ord. 2202, passed 12-18-
2014; Ord. 2395, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 37.05 SALE OF PROPERTY.
   Upon terms as may be agreed upon, with the consent of the Board of Trustees,
the Mayor and Treasurer may sell and convey any and all lots and parcels of
land to which a title is held by the village under sale and conveyance for the
village taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
§ 37.06 COPIES OF DOCUMENTS.
   Whenever an ordinance imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture
or making any appropriation shall be printed in book, booklet or pamphlet form,
published by authority of the Board, the village may impose a reasonable price
commensurate with the cost of the printing thereof for the distribution of the
book or pamphlet to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
§ 37.07 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Elected officials. During an elected official’s term of office, the
village shall reimburse each elected official for reasonable and properly
documented out-of-pocket business, meeting, travel, and/or entertainment
expenses incurred by the elected official in connection with his or her duties
as an elected official. All expenses will be subject to the review and approval
by the Mayor and the Village Comptroller and shall be listed on the village’s
warrants for approval by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Each elected official
shall abstain from voting to approve his or her own expenses when they are up
for approval.
   (B)   Appointed officials. During an appointed official’s term of
employment, the village shall reimburse each appointed official for all
reasonable and properly documented out-of-pocket business, travel and/or
entertainment expenses incurred by the appointed official in connection with
the appointed official’s duties. All expenses will be subject to the review and
approval by the Mayor and the Village Comptroller and shall be listed on the
village’s warrants for approval by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Village employees. During a village employee’s term of employment, the
village shall reimburse each employee for all reasonable and properly
documented out-of-pocket business, travel and/or entertainment expenses
incurred by the employee in connection with the employee’s duties. All expenses
will be subject to the review and approval by the Mayor and the Village
Comptroller and shall be listed on the village’s warrants for approval by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2298, passed 4-21-2016)
§ 37.08 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; DEBTS OWED TO THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
apply:
      COLLECTION COSTS. The expenses and time incurred by the village or its
agents to collect any debt due and owing.
      DEBT DUE AND OWING or DEBT. A specified sum of money owed to the village
for fines, penalties, fees, interest, or other types of charges or costs
imposed by this code, or administrative or judicial judgments after:
         (a)   The period granted for payment has expired; and
         (b)   The exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review
procedures.
   (B)   License suspension or revocation pending payment of fines, costs or
other sum of money owed to the village. If a person fails to pay any fine,
assessment of costs or other sum of money owed to the village pursuant to a
court order or an order of the Mayor, Local Liquor Control Commissioner, or
Hearing Officer within 30 days of such fine, assessment or sum of money
becoming a debt due and owing to the village, such person's license may be
suspended or revoked by the village. If the license is suspended, then the
suspension shall remain in effect until such time that the fine, assessment of
costs or other sum of money is paid in full. If the license is revoked, the
licensee shall be barred from applying to a new or different village license
for a period of one year after the date of revocation.
   (C)   Recovery of collection costs and attorneys' fees. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Code to the contrary and in addition to any other late
penalty, interest, or other types of charges or costs provided for in this
code, any person who fails to pay any debt due and owing shall be liable for
the village's collection costs and attorneys' fees incurred by the village in
the collection of the debt.
(Ord. 2451, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 37.09 AUTHORIZED USE OF VILLAGE VEHICLE.
   Effective immediately, it is the policy of the Village of Crestwood that the
following employees and elected officials shall be provided with village
vehicles, with the insurance, costs of fuel and maintenance paid by the
village:
   (A)   The Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal and Building Inspector.
   (C)   The Mayor.
(Ord. 2598, passed 5-20-2021)
§ 37.10 PERSONAL USE OF VEHICLE.
   The Mayor is authorized to use the vehicle for personal transportation, but
shall reimburse the village for such personal use in a monthly fixed amount as
determined by the village comptroller.
(Ord. 2598, passed 5-20-2021)
§ 37.11 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.
   Employees authorized for reimbursement to auto and other expenses, including
the Village Services Director and Chief of Police, shall be reimbursed in
accordance with the procedures as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2598, passed 5-20-2021)
CHAPTER 38: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND IMPROPER INFLUENCE
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Fiduciary duty
   
38.03   Improper influence
   
38.04   Village-owned property
   
38.05   Use or disclosure of confidential information
   
38.06   Conflicts of interest; appearance of impropriety
   
38.07   Representation of other persons
   
38.08   Post-employment restrictions on assistance and representation
   
38.09   Interest in village business
   
38.10   Contract inducements
   
38.11   Invalid actions
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Responsible bidder criteria, see
Ch. 51
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this subchapter.
   ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION. Any decision on, or any proposal, consideration,
enactment or making of any rule, regulation, or any other official non-
ministerial action or non-action by any village department, village commission,
or by any official or employee of any village department, or any matter within
the official jurisdiction of the Village Services Director’s Office.
   AGENCY. The corporate authorities of the village, any committee or other
subdivision thereof; any village department or other administrative unit,
commission, board or other division of the government of the village.
   COMPENSATION. Money, anything of value or other pecuniary benefit received
or to be received in return for, or as reimbursement for, services rendered or
to be rendered.
   CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY. Personal involvement in, or direct
supervisory responsibility for, the formulation or execution of a village
contract, including without limitation, the preparation of specifications,
evaluation of bids or proposals, negotiation of contract terms or supervision
of performance.
   COVERED RELATIVE. The spouse or domestic partner of any official, candidate
for village office, or employee, or the immediate family, and relatives
residing in the same residence with the official, candidate for village office,
or employee.
   DOING BUSINESS. Any one or any combination of sales, purchases, leases or
contracts to, from, or with the village or any village department in an amount
in excess of $10,000 in any 12 consecutive months.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by the village, whether part-time or full-
time, but excluding elected officials, the Village Services Director,
department heads and village contractors.
   EXPENDITURE. A payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or gift of
money or anything of value.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. An interest held by an official or employee that is
valued or capable of valuation in monetary terms with a current value of more
than $1,000, provided that such interest shall not include: (1) the authorized
compensation paid to an official or employee for any office or employment; or
(2) a time or demand deposit in a financial institution; or (3) an endowment or
insurance policy or annuity contract purchased from an insurance company; or
(4) any ownership, through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of the
shares of a mutual fund corporation, regardless of the value of or dividends on
such shares, if such shares are registered on a securities exchange pursuant to
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or (5) any ownership, through
purchase at fair market value or inheritance, of not more than $15,000 worth of
the shares of a corporation, or any corporate subsidiary, parent or affiliate
thereof, regardless of the dividends on such shares, if such shares are
registered on a securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. Such interest also shall not include any ownership by a
current official or employee through purchase at fair market value or
inheritance of less than 1% of the shares of a corporation, or any corporate
subsidiary, parent or affiliate thereof, regardless of the value or dividends
on such shares, if such shares are registered on a securities exchange pursuant
to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and if such ownership
existed before November 1, 2012; or (6) a referral or finder’s fee payment or
promised understanding or agreement to receive such fee or payment.
   GIFT. Anything of value given without fair market consideration.
   LEGISLATION. Any ordinance, resolution, amendment, nomination, report or any
other matter pending or proposed before the Board of Trustees, or a committee
thereof, or any appointed village board, including any other matter that may be
the subject of board action.
   LEGISLATIVE ACTION. The introduction, sponsorship, consideration, debate,
amendment, passage, defeat, approval, veto or other official action or non-
action on any ordinance, resolution, motion, order, appointment, application or
other matter pending or proposed before the Village Board, or any committee or
subcommittee thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, entity, corporation, partnership, firm, association,
union, trust, estate, as well as any parent or subsidiary of any of the
foregoing, whether or not operated for profit.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Services in any occupation requiring advanced or
specialized education and training, including without limitation, law,
accounting, insurance, real estate, engineering, medicine, architecture,
dentistry, banking, finance, public relations, education or consulting.
   RELATIVE. A person who is related to an official, candidate for village
office, or employee as spouse or as any of the following, whether by blood or
by adoption: parent, child, brother or sister, aunt or uncle, niece or nephew,
grandparent, grandchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-
law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather or stepmother, stepson or
stepdaughter, stepbrother or stepsister, half-brother or half-sister.
   SEEKING TO DO BUSINESS.
      (1)   Taking any action within the past six months to obtain a contract
or business from the village when, if such action were successful, it would
result in the person’s doing business with the village; and
      (2)   The contract or business sought has not been awarded to any person.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Crestwood, Illinois.
   VILLAGE CONTRACTOR. Any person (including his or her agents or employees
acting within the scope of their employment) who is paid from the general fund
of the village, or any other special fund of the village, or pursuant to
village ordinance, for services to the village, regardless of the nature of the
relationship of that individual to the village for purposes other than this
subchapter. VILLAGE CONTRACTOR shall not include officials and employees.
   VILLAGE OFFICIAL. Any elected official in the village, the Village Services
Director, any person appointed to a village commission, committee or board, and
all department heads.
   VILLAGE PROPERTY. Any building or portion thereof owned or exclusively
leased by the village. VILLAGE PROPERTY does not, however, include any portion
of a building that is rented or leased from the village by a private person or
entity.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.02 FIDUCIARY DUTY.
   Village officials and employees shall at all times in the performance of
their public duties owe a fiduciary duty to the village.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.03 IMPROPER INFLUENCE.
   (A)   No village official or employee shall make, participate in making or
in any way attempt to use his or her position to influence any village
governmental decision or action in which he or she knows or has reason to know
that he or she has any financial interest distinguishable from its effect on
the public generally, or from which he or she has derived any income or
compensation during the preceding 12 months, or from which he or she reasonably
expects to derive any income or compensation in the following 12 months.
   (B)   No village official, or any person acting at the direction of that
village official, shall contact, either orally or in writing, any other village
official or employee with respect to any matter involving any person with whom
the elected official has any business relationship that creates a financial
interest on the part of the official, or the domestic partner or spouse of the
official, or from whom or which he or she has derived any income or
compensation during the preceding 12 months, or from whom or which he or she
reasonably expects to derive any income or compensation in the following 12
months. In addition, no elected official may participate in any discussion in
any village committee hearing or meeting, or in any village board meeting, or
vote on any matter involving the person with whom the elected official has any
business relationship that creates a financial interest on the part of the
official, or the domestic partner or spouse of the official, or from whom or
which he or she has derived any income or compensation during the preceding 12
months, or from whom or which he reasonably expects to derive any income or
compensation in the following 12 months.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.04 VILLAGE-OWNED PROPERTY.
   No village official or employee shall engage in or permit the unauthorized
use of village-owned property.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.05 USE OR DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No current or former village officials or employees shall use or disclose,
other than in the performance of his or her official duties and
responsibilities, or as may be required by law, confidential information gained
in the course of or by reason of his or her position or employment. For
purposes of this section, CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION means any information that
may not be obtained pursuant to the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, as
amended.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.06 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST; APPEARANCE OF IMPROPRIETY.
   (A)   No village official or employee shall make or participate in the
making of any governmental decision with respect to any matter in which he or
she has any financial interest distinguishable from that of the general public,
or from which he or she has derived any income or compensation during the
preceding 12 months, or from which he or she reasonably expects to derive any
income or compensation in the following 12 months.
   (B)   (1)   Any elected or appointed official who has any financial interest
distinguishable from that of the general public or all trustees in any matter
pending before the Village Board or any Board committee, or from which he or
she has derived any income or compensation during the preceding 12 months, or
from which he reasonably expects to derive any income or compensation in the
following 12 months, shall publicly disclose the nature and extent of that
interest in the records of proceedings of the Village Board, and shall also
notify the Village Clerk of that interest within 96 hours of delivery by the
Village Clerk to the member, of the introduction of any ordinance, resolution,
order or other matter to be considered by the Village Board, or as soon
thereafter as the member is or should be aware of the potential conflict of
interest. The Village Clerk shall make these disclosures available for public
inspection and copying immediately upon receipt. He or she shall abstain from
voting on the matter, but shall be counted present for purposes of a quorum.
The obligation to report a potential conflict of interest under this division
arises as soon as the member of the Village Board is or should be aware of the
potential conflict.
      (2)   To avoid even an appearance of impropriety, any member of the
Village Board who has any business relationship that creates a financial
interest on the part of that member, or the domestic partner or spouse of that
member, with a person or entity with a matter pending before the Village Board,
or any village committee or commission, or from whom or which he or she has
derived any income or compensation during the preceding 12 months, or from whom
or which he or she reasonably expects to derive any income or compensation in
the following 12 months, shall publicly disclose the nature of that business
relationship or income or compensation on the records of proceedings of the
Village Board, and shall also notify the Village Clerk of the relationship
within 96 hours of delivery by the Village Clerk to the member, of the
introduction of any ordinance, resolution, order or other matter before the
Village Board, or as soon thereafter as the member is or should be aware of the
potential conflict of interest. The Village Clerk shall make these disclosures
available for public inspection and copying immediately upon receipt. He or she
shall abstain from voting on the matter, but shall be counted present for
purposes of a quorum. The obligation to report a potential conflict of interest
under this division arises as soon as the member of the Village Board is or
should be aware of the potential conflict. For purposes of this division (B)(2)
only, MATTER PENDING BEFORE THE VILLAGE BOARD OR ANY COUNCIL COMMITTEE shall
refer to any action involving the award of loan funds, grant funds or bond
proceeds, bond inducement ordinances, leases, land sales, zoning matters, or
the creation of tax increment financing districts.
      (3)   No village officer or official shall participate in any
deliberations pertaining to any case, matter, controversy or litigation in
which they have a present or future financial interest.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.07 REPRESENTATION OF OTHER PERSONS.
   (A)   No village official or employee may represent, or derive any income or
compensation from the representation of, any person other than the village in
any formal or informal proceeding or transaction before any village commission
or board in which the commission’s or board’s action or non-action is of a non-
ministerial nature; provided that nothing in this division shall preclude any
employee from performing the duties of his or her employment, or any village
official from appearing without compensation before any village commission or
board on behalf of the residents of the village in the course of his or her
duties as a village official.
   (B)   No village official or employee may derive any income, fee or
compensation from the representation of any person in any judicial or quasi-
judicial proceeding before any administrative agency or court in which the
village is a party, and that person's interest is adverse to that of the
village.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.08 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE AND REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   No former village official or employee shall assist or represent any
person other than the village in any judicial or administrative proceeding
involving the village, if the official or employee participated personally and
substantially in the proceeding during his or her term of office or employment.
   (B)   No former village official or employee shall, for a period of one year
after the termination of the official’s or employee’s term of office or
employment, assist or represent any person in any business transaction
involving the village, if the official or employee participated personally and
substantially in the subject matter of the transaction during his or her term
of office or employment; provided that, if the official or employee exercised
contract management authority with respect to a contract, this prohibition
shall be permanent as to that contract.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict a former
village official’s or employee’s activities on behalf of, and while employed
by, another government agency.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.09 INTEREST IN VILLAGE BUSINESS.
   (A)   No village official or employee shall have a financial interest in his
or her own name, or in the name of any other person, in any contract, work or
business of the village, or in the sale of any article, whenever the expense,
price or consideration of the contract, work, business or sale is paid with
funds belonging to or administered by the village, or is authorized by
ordinance; provided, however, for purposes of this division, any of the
following shall not constitute a financial interest in any contract, work or
business of the village:
      (1)   Ownership of less than 1% of the outstanding common stock in any
entity, or its parent, subsidiary or affiliate, regardless of the value of
dividends paid or accrued on the stock, and the stock is registered on a
securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended;
      (2)   Compensation for property taken pursuant to the village’s eminent
domain power; and
      (3)   Any interest of a relative related to or derived from the
relative’s independent occupation, business or profession.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, no village
official or employee who has contract management authority over any contract,
work or business of the village shall have a financial interest in any entity
that is a contractor, subcontractor, or otherwise a party to that contract,
work or business. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding
following public notice, no village official or employee shall have a financial
interest in the purchase of any property that:
      (1)   Belongs to the Village; or
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the village.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.10 CONTRACT INDUCEMENTS.
   (A)   No payment, gratuity or offer of employment shall be made in
connection with any village contract, by or on behalf of a subcontractor to the
prime contractor or higher-tier subcontractor, or any person associated
therewith, as an inducement for the award of a subcontract or order.
   (B)   No village official or employee shall exercise contract management
authority where any relative or the domestic partner of the official or
employee is employed by or has contracts with persons doing village work over
which the village official or employee has or exercises contract management
authority.
   (C)   No village official or employee shall use, or permit the use of, his
or her position to assist any relative, or his or her domestic partner, in
securing employment or contracts with persons over whom the official or
employee exercises contract management authority. The employment of, or
contracting with, a relative or domestic partner of that village official or
employee by that person within six months prior to, during the term of, or six
months subsequent to the period of a village contract shall be evidence that
the employment or contract was obtained in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 38.11 INVALID ACTIONS.
   All village contracts shall include a provision requiring compliance with
this subchapter. Any contracts negotiated, entered into, or performed in
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be voidable as to
the village. Any permit, license, ruling, determination or other official
action of a village department or commission applied for, or in any other
manner sought, obtained or undertaken in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter, shall be invalid and without any force or effect whatsoever.
(Ord. 2167, passed 6-19-2014)
CHAPTER 39: SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Section
   
39.01   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
39.02   Definition of sexual harassment
   
39.03   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
39.04   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
39.05   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
39.06   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
§ 39.01 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of Village of Crestwood, Illinois to
prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent,
municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender.
All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 2459, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 39.02 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of SEXUAL HARASSMENT as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines SEXUAL HARASSMENT as:
   (B)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual's employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (C)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      (1)   Verbal. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      (2)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls,” “smacking”
or “kissing” noises.
      (3)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      (4)   Physical. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      (5)   Textual/electronic. “Sexting” (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   (D)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person.”
(Ord. 2459, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 39.03 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report. Any
employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual harassment,
including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal, If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the city manager or
administrator, or the chief executive officer of the municipality.
      (3)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (4)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
   (B)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (C)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 2459, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 39.04 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state agency, or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or Federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or Federal law, rule, or regulation. (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-
101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, which shall be filed in either case within 300 days
of the alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 2459, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 39.05 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or Federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or Federal agency.
(Ord. 2459, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 39.06 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements. In addition, any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector
general, the State Police, a State's Attorney, the Attorney General, or any
other law enforcement official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics
Commission may levy an administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person
who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2459, passed 11-15-2018)
CHAPTER 40: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING CLAIMS
UNDER THE PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ACT
Section
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Application procedure
   
40.03   Administrative composition
   
40.04   Administrative hearing
Statutory reference:
   For the Illinois Public Safety Employee Benefits Act (“PSEBA”), see ILCS Ch.
820, Act 320, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms will have the
following meanings. These definitions are derived from the federal Public
Health and Welfare Act, which was enacted in 1944 and amended in 1984 to
define, by inclusion or reference, the following terms.
   CATASTROPHIC INJURY. An injury, the direct and proximate consequences of
which permanently prevent an individual from performing any gainful work.
   GAINFUL WORK. Full- or part-time activity that is actually or commonly
compensated.
   INJURY. A traumatic physical wound (or a traumatized physical condition of
the body) directly and proximately caused by external force (such as bullets,
explosives, sharp instruments, blunt objects, or physical blows), chemicals,
electricity, climatic conditions, infectious disease, radiation, viruses, or
bacteria, but does not include:
      (1)   Any occupational disease; or
      (2)   Any condition of the body caused or occasioned by stress or strain.
(Ord. 2411, passed 1-18-2018)
§ 40.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   As the court noted in Englum v. The Village of Charleston, “while the [Act]
contained substantive requirements for section 10 eligibility, the [PSEBA]
contained no procedural requirements for determining whether a former employee
met the substantive criteria.” Englum v. The Village of Charleston 2017 IL App
(4th) 160747 *¶55. This chapter and the application procedure of this section
establishes guidance on the proper procedural requirements for public safety
officers seeking PSEBA benefits in the village.
   (A)   Public safety officers, or family member(s) of an injured or deceased
public safety officer, (“applicant”) must file a full and complete PSEBA
application in writing within 30 days of filing a pension claim with the
village, or within 30 days of the date of the adoption of this chapter in the
event that an applicant has filed for a PSEBA claim prior to the date of
adoption of this chapter, whichever is later, if the applicant is seeking
benefits under PSEBA. The village shall notify applicant if the PSEBA
application is incomplete and the applicant shall have five days to remedy
their application. Failure to timely file the full and complete application
shall result in a forfeiture of the benefits under PSEBA by failure to properly
submit a complete application.
   (B)   A complete PSEBA application includes the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury, and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to the claim);
      (2)   The applicant’s firsthand knowledge explaining, to the village’s
satisfaction, how the injury/death directly resulted from:
         (a)   Response to fresh pursuit;
         (b)   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         (c)   An unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
         (d)   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act;
      (3)   A signed PSEBA medical authorization release, which authorizes the
collection of information related to the incident, including, but not limited
to, disability pension proceedings, worker’s compensation records, and medical
records, and specifying the name and address for pertinent health care provider
(s);
      (4)   A signed PSEBA general information release, specifying the name and
signature of the applicant, or her/his authorized representative, along with
legal proof of such representation, and the name and signature of a witness,
authorizing the collection of information pertinent to the incident review
process;
      (5)   The name(s) of witness(es) to the incident;
      (6)   The name(s) of witness(es) the applicant intends to call at the
PSEBA hearing;
      (7)   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with the
appropriate pension board;
      (8)   Information supporting the PSEBA eligibility requirements; and
      (9)   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled in or
received by the applicant, and/or family members if the applicant is deceased.
   (C)   The PSEBA application must be submitted to the Village Services
Director in its entirety.
   (D)   The PSEBA application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
   (E)   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the
village, the completed application shall then be submitted to the village as
the preliminary record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped and
provided to the applicant.
   (F)   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the village
shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a Hearing Officer to
make a determination on whether to grant the applicant PSEBA benefits, based on
the result of the administrative hearing.
   (G)   The applicant will be given written notice of the date for the
scheduled administrative hearing, to be served not less than ten days prior to
the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written
notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend on that date, the applicant
must contact the Hearing Officer in writing within seven days after being
served. The Hearing Officer shall establish an alternative hearing date that is
within 30 days of the original hearing date. Failure to appear at the
administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA benefits.
(Ord. 2411, passed 1-18-2018)
§ 40.03 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   The administrative hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by a Hearing
Officer whose authority and limitations are as follows.
   (A)   Authority of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall have all
of the authorities granted to her/him under common law relative to the conduct
of an administrative hearing, including the authority to:
      (1)   Preside over village hearings involving PSEBA;
      (2)   Administer oaths;
      (3)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue of
eligibility under PSEBA;
      (4)   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or
their representatives;
      (5)   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence;
      (6)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (7)   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing, and shall include a
written finding of fact, decision and order.
   (B)   Hearing Officer. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the position of Hearing
Officer for each hearing on PSEBA benefits that shall come before this village.
In making the selection, the following information should be considered, at a
minimum:
      (1)   The individual’s ability to comply with the job description as set
forth herein; and
      (2)   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois, and have knowledge of, and experience in, employment and
labor law, general civil procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative
practice.
(Ord. 2411, passed 1-18-2018)
§ 40.04 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   The system of administrative hearings for the determination of eligibility
for benefits under PSEBA shall be initiated either by the village or by the
applicant after the submission of a full and complete PSEBA application. An
administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine whether the
applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the applicant is found
eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the Act.
   (A)   Record.  The village shall ensure that all hearings are attended by a
certified court reporter. A transcript of all proceedings shall be made by the
certified court reporter, and a copy shall be provided to the applicant within
28 days of the date of the administrative hearing.
   (B)   Procedures.  The village and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at the administrative hearing, and to present
witnesses, testimony and documents. The village and the applicant may cross-
examine opposing witnesses, and may request the issuance of subpoenas to compel
the appearance of relevant witnesses or the production of relevant documents.
   (C)   Evidence. The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the extent
practicable unless, by such application, the Hearing Officer determines that
application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in the
conduct of her or his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole
discretion of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must state on the record
her or his reason for that determination.
   (D)   Final determination.  A written determination by the Hearing Officer
of whether the petitioning applicant is eligible for the benefits under PSEBA
shall constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of
judicial review under the common law writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Burden of proof. At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in all
hearings conducted under this chapter shall be by the preponderance of the
evidence.
   (F)   Administrative records.  All records pertaining to the administrative
process shall be held in a separate file under the applicant’s name with the
village.
(Ord. 2411, passed 1-18-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
51.   RESPONSIBLE BIDDER CRITERIA
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
Combined Systems
   
50.01   Application for water and sewer service
   
50.02   Entry powers
   
50.03   Liability for water and sewer service
Water Use and Service
   
50.15   Map of water mains
   
50.16   Water taps and connections
   
50.17   Construction regulations
   
50.18   Meters
   
50.19   Maintenance and repair
   
50.20   Unauthorized use of water
   
50.21   Water use during building construction
   
50.22   Sprinkler systems
   
50.23   Extensions to water system
   
50.24   Licensed plumbers to do work; quality of work
   
50.25   Rates and charges; billing procedures
   
50.26   Water supply emergencies; conservation measures
   
50.27   Water conservation; restricted hours and days for specified uses;
exceptions
   
50.28   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
50.29   Use of groundwater as potable water supply prohibited
Sewer Use and Service
   
50.40   House sewers and connections
   
50.41   Sewer connection permit requirements
   
50.42   Construction regulations
   
50.43   Fees
   
50.44   Inspections; correction of defective work
   
50.45   Footing drains
   
50.46   Uncovering, excavating around sewers
   
50.47   Licensed persons to do work
   
50.48   Obstruction, damage to system; prohibited discharges
   
50.49   Open ditches and drains
   
50.50   Culverts
   
50.51   Sewer blockage; responsibility and liability of owner
Rates and Charges
   
50.65   Deposit required
   
50.66   Connection fees
   
50.67   Service rates and charges
   
50.68   Disposition of revenues
   
50.69   Books and accounts
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
COMBINED SYSTEMS
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   Any person desiring water or sewer service, including any and all
connections with the waterworks and sewerage system, shall make application
therefor on a form to be furnished by the proper department. Every applicant
shall state specifically and in detail the place, location and kind of
connection and appendages sought, the purpose for which the water is to be used
and all the plumbing and plumbing work, in any manner or way, connected
therewith, and in case any street paving shall be opened or disturbed by the
work, the applicant shall conform to all provisions of this chapter and to all
provisions of other ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-4A-1)
§ 50.02 ENTRY POWERS.
   All persons authorized by the village, including, but not limited to,
employees, officers and agents of the village, contractors, subcontractors,
repairers, meter readers and inspectors, shall have the right, at all
reasonable times, of access to any person's premises upon reasonable notice for
the purpose of: ascertaining the number and type of water and sewer connections
required by the combined system, to make necessary repairs and inspections, to
make a record of the meter reading and to perform other duties necessary for
the proper operation of the combined system. Any person refusing to permit or
interfering with the authorized person's above-described right to access to the
premises shall be subject to a penalty as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-4A-2)
§ 50.03 LIABILITY FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of their liability for service supplied to
any user of the service of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the
village on their properties, and it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk and
such other officers of the village to take all action necessary or required by
the laws of the state thereunto enabling to file all claims for money due to
the village and to prosecute and enforce the claims in the manner, form and
time as permitted by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-4A-3)
WATER USE AND SERVICE
§ 50.15 MAP OF WATER MAINS.
   The Village Board shall cause to be made a complete and correct map of all
water mains now or hereafter laid, showing their location, connections, valves,
hydrants, cutoffs and the like.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-1)
§ 50.16 WATER TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit requirements. Application for a permit to connect any service
pipe with a water main shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall fix the day
on which the applicant wishes the tap inserted in the water main. The applicant
for a permit under this section shall give at least 48-hours' notice prior to
the time for the insertion of the tap.
   (B)   Water taps.
      (1)   The plumber must show evidence of being licensed to the Village
Clerk.
      (2)   All streets shall be properly restored to original condition.
      (3)   All installation costs shall be paid by the owner.
      (4)   Taps must not be covered until inspected by the proper village
authority.
      (5)   Corporation cocks, pipes and the like shall be to village
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-2)
§ 50.17 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Supervision. All service pipes from the mains to the premises to be
served shall be installed under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public
Works.
   (B)   Responsibility for construction and costs. The installation shall be
by the village or as hereinafter provided and shall be paid for by the owner of
the property to be served, in accordance with a schedule of fees and charges
hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   Specifications.
      (1)   The connections from the water main to the service cock shall be
placed at least four feet below the level of the ground and shall be of lead or
copper material. The pipe shall be so laid that it shall be at least one foot
longer than if laid straight and placed in a manner as to prevent rupture or
breakage from settling on the ground.
      (2)   If copper pipe is used, it shall be "Type K" with flared
connections.
      (3)   A stopcock, to be known as the "service cock", shall be inserted in
each connection at a convenient joint in the street, alley, public ground or
place through which the connection passes, and whenever there are curb lines
established, the service cock shall be placed not less than one foot, nor more
than three feet, inside of the curb line with a cast-iron stop box to grade. In
all cases, it shall be located under the direction of the Village Board and a
record of the exact location thereof shall be kept. All stopcocks used in
connection with the waterworks system or plant shall be "round way" and made of
good brass and shall be of a quality known as "standard". They shall be strong
enough to stand a pressure of 300 pounds per square inch.
      (4)   Services of two-inch internal diameter or larger shall be
constructed of cast-iron pipe of a quality conforming to the specifications of
the American Waterworks Association.
      (5)   Shut-off boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service
pipe and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where
this is practicable. The boxes shall be so located that they are easily
accessible and shall be protected from frost.
   (D)   Service to more than one premises.
      (1)   No service pipe shall be laid or used to supply water to two or
more distinct premises or buildings unless separate stopcocks for each of the
premises or buildings shall be placed in the parkway outside of the premises,
as provided in this subchapter, and a permit fee shall be charged for each
service.
      (2)   Two or more premises with separate owners or occupants shall not be
supplied from the same service pipe. Owners of buildings who lease or subdivide
shall be responsible for all water used on or in the premises. A separate
service pipe shall be laid from the main for each building; except that, a
service pipe may extend from an owner's home or place of business to his or her
own barn or garage in the area, if desired.
   (E)   Excavations. In addition to the requirement of compliance with the
regulations relating to the making of excavations in streets, excavations for
installing service pipes, lines and utilities shall comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   All work done in the streets and alleys or public places of the
village pertaining to the water, sewer or utility systems shall be done in a
thorough and workmanlike manner and shall be under the supervision and
direction of the Department of Public Works and subject to its approval.
      (2)   No water service shall be laid nearer than 18 inches from a
parallel trench.
      (3)   The installation of all service pipes must be done in a workmanlike
manner, under the supervision of the Superintendent and shall withstand a test
of 125 pounds per square inch (PSI) pressure for a period of ten minutes
without leaking.
      (4)   All service pipes shall be so laid so as to prevent freezing,
breaking or rupture by settling.
      (5)   No service pipe shall be placed in the same excavation with or
directly over any drain or sewer pipe, unless the service pipe is placed upon a
shelf cut into solid, undisturbed earth at the side of excavation.
      (6)   All earth removed in excavating for the sewer and water service
pipes shall be returned to the trenches from which it was taken and shall be
replaced in layers not exceeding six inches in depth; each layer shall be
thoroughly compacted by ramming, and the earth shall be moistened sufficiently
to permit the return of all the earth to the trenches by ramming as above
specified in areas of parkways or fields. All streets and roadways shall be
backfilled with stone and shall be maintained for a period of one year in as
good condition for travel as they were before the commencement of the work. All
excess excavated material shall be removed by the contractor.
   (F)   Inspections. All water service pipes and connections shall be
inspected and approved by the Village Board or other persons under its
direction and no service pipes shall be covered until they have been so
inspected.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-3)
§ 50.18 METERS.
   (A)   Metered water required. All water consumers supplied by the village
shall be supplied through meters only and shall pay for the water at the rates
and in the manner specified in this chapter. On all service lines, whether
meters have been ordered or not, the plumbing shall be so arranged that no
water from the village water supply system shall be taken or supplied to the
building and fixtures for which the meter was intended, except that which will
pass through and be registered by the meter.
   (B)   Type of meter; cost. All meters must be purchased through the Village
Board, and the kind and pattern of the water meters shall be as determined by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees. No other kind shall be installed or used.
   (C)   Installation and location.
      (1)   All meters shall be placed in the basement of buildings or in some
frost-proof enclosure within the building where service pipes enter the same
and so as to afford easy access for examining and reading. Where there is no
basement or frost-proof enclosure within the building, the meter shall be
placed in a tile or concrete box inside the curb line not more than one foot
distant from the service cock. The box shall be so controlled as to amply
protect the meter against frost and shall be easily accessible to the employees
of the village. In the event that a meter is situated in a location that is
inaccessible or difficult of access, the Superintendent of Public Works shall
notify the owner or consumer of the condition. If the condition is not remedied
in a satisfactory manner within 15 days after receipt of the notice, the water
will be shut off and remain shut off until the condition is remedied.
      (2)   When a meter is placed in any pipe connected to a hot water boiler
or other hot water appliance, a check and relief valve must be placed between
the meter and the boiler or hot water appliance to protect the meter from back
pressure of steam or hot water. The type of check and relief valve shall be
approved by the Superintendent of Public Works. There shall also be installed a
shut-off valve on each side of the meter in addition to the check and relief
valve.
      (3)   After the meter is placed, only officers or employees of the
village shall be allowed to repair, remove or in any manner interfere with the
same. A stopcock or valve shall be placed on each side of the meter.
   (D)   More than one meter on a single service. Property owners may have, at
the option of the village, more than one meter installed in one building on one
service and controlled by a single stopcock in the parkway; provided that, the
meters are not connected in tandem. Nothing less than the minimum charge will
be made for each meter so installed, and the bills for the whole supply
furnished through the service shall be made to the owner of the premises. Each
meter shall be considered as a separate and distinct account and shall be
subject to all rules and regulations applicable to one account.
   (E)   Testing meters.
      (1)   All meters of a size two inches and under shall have a test tee
with a one-inch opening inserted between the meter and the stop valve on the
outlet of the meter. All meters larger than two inches shall have a test tee
with a two-inch opening between the meter and the stop valve on the outlet side
of the meter. Each test tee shall be provided with either a suitable valve or
brass plug.
      (2)   The village may, at any time, remove a meter temporarily for the
purpose of testing its accuracy. Any meter so tested and found to register
within 2% of the correct amount shall be considered acceptable and its
registration shall be considered correct.
   (F)   Tampering with, injury to meters.
      (1)   No seal placed by the Water Department for the protection of any
meter, valve, fitting or other water connection shall be defaced or broken
except on written authority from the Superintendent of Public Works. Meters
shall be left in the condition and manner as set by the village and shall not
be injured, defaced, marred, destroyed or interfered with or tampered with in
any manner whatsoever. No meter shall be moved or disturbed without special
permission from the Superintendent of Public Works; provided that, duly
licensed plumbers, when making repairs to frozen services or meters may remove
the meter, providing it is immediately delivered to the Superintendent of
Public Works for inspection and testing and providing that a bond wire is
installed prior to the removal. It shall be the duty of the owner of or
applicant for the meter to promptly notify the village of all defects in any
meter or its failure to properly register the quantity of water used.
      (2)   In no case shall a pipe coupling be inserted in the line in place
of a meter; except that, in case of frozen meters, a licensed plumber or the
Water Department shall be permitted to make the insertion. Any person violating
this provision shall be required to pay an amount estimated to cover the loss
or revenue by reason of the incorrect registration of the meter.
   (G)   Responsibility for costs.
      (1)   The cost of the meter and the installation thereof shall be paid by
the applicant or the owner of the premises where the same is placed.
      (2)   All repairs and renewals of meters shall be at the expense of the
village; except that, the owner of or applicant for the meter shall at all
times be responsible for any damage done to the meter, including that caused by
freezing, heat or breakage, or for theft thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-4)
(Ord. 622, passed 11-4-1976)
§ 50.19 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   All owners shall, at their own expense, keep their service pipe from
the point of connection to the main line and all other apparatus in good repair
and properly protected from frost and other damages. No claims shall be made
against the village by reason of breaking of any of the service pipes or
apparatus or from any other damage that may result from shutting off water for
repairing or for any other purpose or for any variation in pressure. No
reduction will be made from the regular rates as billed on account of leaking
pipes or fixtures.
   (B)   Leaks in the service pipe between the shut-off box or service box and
the meter shall be repaired by the property owner at his or her own expense,
and if not repaired within five days after receiving notice from the
Superintendent of Public Works, the water shall be shut-off until the repair is
made. No reduction shall be made or rebate allowed to any consumer on account
of leakage or alleged leakage in any pipe, tank or other apparatus or device.
   (C)   No claims shall be allowed against the village on account of
interruption of the water supply caused by the breaking of pipe or machinery or
by stoppage for repairs on account of fire or other emergency, and no claims
shall be allowed for any damages caused by the breaking of any pipe or
equipment. The village will not be responsible for accidents resulting from
insecure boilers or from variation in the water pressure or the ram of water
from the mains or from collapse of any water fixture from any cause whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-5)
§ 50.20 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER.
   (A)   No person, unless duly authorized, shall turn on any water service
stopcock or use water therefrom when so turned on under penalty as provided in
this chapter, and the person so using or wasting water in an unlawful manner
shall also be liable to pay therefor at the regular water rates without
discount.
   (B)   No person other than members of the Water Department, shall use water
from any fire hydrant connected with the village water system, except for
extinguishing fires or unless especially authorized by the Superintendent of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-6) (Ord. 622, passed 11-4-1976) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 WATER USE DURING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. Persons desiring to use village water for
construction purposes shall, in all cases, apply to the Village Board for a
permit on a form provided by the Village Board for that purpose.
      (2)   Application for permit; fee. Subject to the requirement of a permit
as stated in division (A)(1) above, during the construction of any building and
before water is installed as provided in this chapter, the contractor
constructing the building may be permitted to use the village water supply by
making application therefor and paying a permit fee of $40 for a single-family
dwelling, $20 per unit for a multi-family unit and $120 for any other building.
Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept
all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of the
village water supply by the applicant.
   (B)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   The person shall be required to pay for all water consumed at the
then current village rate. In addition thereto, the users shall be required to
use a meter provided by the village for the purpose of accounting for the
water. The user will be required to deposit the sum of $100 with the village as
security for the meter provided and shall be further required to pay meter
rental to the village at a rate of $5 per day.
      (2)   The rate charged for water supplied for construction under any
building permit shall terminate when an occupancy permit for the premises is
issued. Any water used after the issuance of an occupancy permit shall be
charged at the rates provided in §§
50.65 through
50.69.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-7) (Ord. 508, passed 2-21-1974)
§ 50.22 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Construction specifications. Water pipes entering premises and used
for fire protection only and connected with automatic sprinkler devices shall
be supplied from a separate pipe having an independent connection with the main
and shall be provided with an outside controlling valve and a meter type,
design and size to be approved by the Village Board, all at the expense of the
person using same, and shall be so constructed as to permit, in case of
necessity, an uninterrupted flow of water. No person shall make a connection
without first having received a permit for the installation based on approval
of proper plans and specifications by the Village Board.
   (B)   Testing sprinkler systems. Whenever the owner of a sprinkler system
desires to make a test thereof, he or she shall first notify the Village Clerk,
in writing, to that effect at least 24 hours prior to the time of the test. All
water used in connection with the test shall be measured and paid for by the
owner of the sprinkler system.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-8) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 EXTENSIONS TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Permit required; application.
      (1)   No extension to the water distribution system of the village shall
be made without first obtaining a permit therefor. The application for a permit
shall be made to the Village Clerk. It shall state:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The legal description of the premises to be served by the
extension;
         (c)   The number of acres, excluding streets contained in the area to
be served;
         (d)   The number of lineal feet in the extension;
         (e)   The proposed location of the extension; and
         (f)   Other information as is required by the Village Board and shall
be accompanied by complete plans and specifications of the proposed extension.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed as, in any manner, advocating
or modifying the requirements of other ordinances of the village.
   (B)   Approval of extension; construction specifications and costs. The
extension, under this section, shall be constructed at the cost of the owner of
the property to be served and shall be of a type and size adequate to meet the
needs of the area in which it is located and shall be constructed in a manner
as is approved by the Board. No permit shall be issued until the approval has
been given. All mains so installed shall be the property of the village. The
applicant for a permit, under this section, shall give at least 48-hours'
notice to the village prior to commencing any of the work authorized by the
permit.
   (C)   Inspections. The Superintendent of Public Works, or some person duly
authorized by the Village Board, shall inspect all extensions to the water
distribution system of the village and shall see that the work is done in a
workmanlike manner and in accordance with the plans and specifications of the
extension. If he or she finds that any of the work is not done in a workmanlike
manner or is not done in accordance with the plans and specifications, he or
she shall require the work to be done over in a proper manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-9) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 LICENSED PLUMBERS TO DO WORK; QUALITY OF WORK.
   (A)   Licensed plumbers required. No person, except a regularly licensed
master plumber or his or her employees acting under his or her direction or a
regular employee of the Water Department under the supervision of the
Superintendent of Public Works, shall be permitted to do any work on any water
service pipes or connections made with the water mains or, in any way,
connected with the water supply of the village. No master plumber shall,
directly or indirectly, allow any other person to do any work on the appliances
referred to in this section under his or her license.
   (B)   Rules and regulations. All plumbers permitted to do work on water
service pipes or connections shall be governed by all the rules and regulations
that are now or may hereafter be adopted by the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-10) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Duty to notify village on occupation or vacation of premises. Any
person who shall vacate any premises or any person who shall enter upon and
occupy any premises shall, immediately, before vacating the premises or moving
to the premises, notify the village and request a reading of the meter.
   (B)   Liability for water service. The owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for the service on the premises, and the service is furnished to the
premises by the village only upon condition that the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally liable therefor to
the village.
   (C)   Bills for service; delinquencies.
      (1)   Rendition of bills; late fee. It is hereby made the duty of the
Village Collector to render bills for service and for all rates and charges in
connection therewith and to collect all moneys due thereon. All bills for
service shall be rendered as of the first day of the quarter succeeding the
period for which the service is billed and shall be payable not later than the
close of business on the fifteenth day of the same quarter. A penalty of 10%
shall be added to all bills not paid within 20 days of date of billing. When
the twentieth day of any month shall be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the
bills for service shall be payable on the next succeeding secular day without
any additional penalty.
      (2)   Discontinuance of service; reconnection fee. In the event the
charges for the service become delinquent, as defined in this subchapter, the
Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause reasonable
notification to be given, in writing, to the owner of the premises or the
occupant thereof or the user of the service that the delinquency exists and
that services shall be discontinued without further notice. Upon the
disconnecting of any services, a charge of $50 shall be made for reconnecting
the same after settlement of the current as well as delinquent account.
      (3)   Delinquency lien. In the event the charges for service and deposits
required are not paid within 20 days after the date of billing, the amounts
shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and, thereafter, the
delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which the service
is supplied, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file
sworn, detailed statements showing the delinquencies in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county and the filing of the statements shall be
deemed notice of the lien for payment of the service rendered; provided,
however, the village may refrain from filing a statement of delinquencies if
the village proposes to sue or shall have sued the owner, occupant or user of
the real estate in a civil action to recover the delinquent charges.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-11) (Ord. 506, passed 2-21-1974)
§ 50.26 WATER SUPPLY EMERGENCIES; CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   The Village Mayor is duly authorized and empowered in his or her discretion,
should he or she find and determine that a water supply shortage exists in the
village, to meet the health, sanitary, safety, fire protection and public
welfare needs of the people of the village, to declare that a water supply
emergency exists and to prohibit the drawing of water from the water supply
lines of the village or use of the water for any of the following purposes
during the emergency period:
   (A)   Sprinkling;
   (B)   Car washing;
   (C)   Air conditioning or cooling;
   (D)   Commercial or industrial uses beyond requirements for sanitation or
preserving health; and
   (E)   Any other use that is not directly connected with the preservation of
health, sanitation, safety or public welfare.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-12)
§ 50.27 WATER CONSERVATION; RESTRICTED HOURS AND DAYS FOR SPECIFIED USES;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided for herein, water from the Village of Crestwood
water distribution system may only be used for the watering or sprinkling of
gardens, lawns, shrubs or other outdoor plants, or for filling swimming pools,
as follows:
      (1)   All properties with even-numbered street numbers (i.e., numbers
ending in 0, 2, 4, 6 or 8) may use village distributed water for plant watering
or pool filling on even-numbered calendar dates between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
to 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., prevailing time;
      (2)   All properties with odd-numbered street numbers (i.e., numbers
ending in 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9) may use village distributed water for plant watering
or pool filling on odd-numbered calendar dates between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
to 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., prevailing time.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the following
special regulations shall apply:
      (1)   There shall be no restrictions as to hours or days when water from
the village water distribution system may be used for: a) watering or
sprinkling of gardens, trees, shrubs, or other outdoor plants where such
watering or sprinkling is done by a person using a hand-held watering device;
b) filling swimming pools with a volume of 50 gallons or less; or c) the
automatic watering of trees and shrubs by means of root feeders within the drip
line of the tree or shrub. For the purposes of this section, the DRIP LINE of a
tree or shrub is defined as the ground area immediately beneath the branches of
the tree or shrub. The restrictions set forth above shall not apply as to any
other lawful use of water from the village water distribution system such as
bathing, washing, and the like.
      (2)   During the first ten days after new sod has been placed, property
owners may use water from the village water distribution system for the
watering or sprinkling of the new sod, as follows:
         (a)   On the first day that sod is placed the property owner may water
the sod for any eight hours;
         (b)   For the next nine days after the sod has been placed, the
property owner may water the sod every day between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., prevailing time;
         (c)   Following the first ten days after the sod is placed, the
provisions of division (A) above shall apply.
      (3)   Properties which are newly seeded may, in addition to the permitted
watering as set forth above, also use a hand-held garden hose to water the
newly seeded areas(s) or an automatic, underground sprinkling system at any
time up until the first mowing of the newly seeded area(s).
      (4)   Extended watering for newly seeded lawns.
         (a)   Property owners wishing permission for extended hours for newly
seeded or slit-seeded lawns shall first apply to the village for a permit to do
so. The application for a permit shall state:
            1.   The address and legal description of the property where the
lawn is to be seeded;
            2.   The name and address of the owner of the property;
            3.   The number of square feet of lawn to be seeded;
            4.   The date on which the seeding is to occur; and
            5.   The times during the first ten days which the property owner
plans to water the newly seeded lawn as permitted above.
         (b)   The permit for extended watering times as set forth in the
application shall be granted unless the Superintendent of Public Works shall
find that the times requested to water the newly seeded lawn are adverse to the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village due to the number of
permits previously issued for either newly sodded or seeded lawns which have
requested similar times, and the ability of the system in that area to supply
adequate water to residents in that area for other purposes including, but not
limited to sanitation, fire suppression, and cookmg/drinking. When the
Superintendent shall find that the times requested are adverse to the health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the village, the Superintendent shall
assign to the property owner time periods for watering which are consistent
with the needs of the residents of the village, but also designed to allot to
the applicant times which he or she is able to water his or her lawn for
periods permitted by divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (C)   Emergency proclamation.
      (1)   Whenever the water supply of the village is diminished, from any
cause whatever, to an amount which is the opinion of the Mayor is or is likely
to become dangerous to the health and safety of the public, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a proclamation in the form of a public notice
containing regulations on the use of water from the village water distribution
system. Such regulations may provide for the limited usage of water,
limitations on days and hours of use for some or all purposes, and the
prohibition of specified uses. Upon issuing this proclamation, the Mayor shall
make the contents thereof known to the public by news release to the local
newspapers and radio media, and may also notify the citizens in any other
practical manner that he or she shall devise. Further, the Mayor shall
immediately notify all members of the Board of Trustees of the nature of the
emergency and the regulations that have been imposed.
      (2)   The emergency proclamation of the Mayor and the regulations imposed
hereby shall remain in full force and effect until any one of the following
shall occur:
         (a)   The Mayor determines that the emergency no longer exists and
that the emergency proclamation and the regulations imposed thereby shall no
longer continue in effect.
         (b)   The Village Board of Trustees modifies, repeals or makes
permanent the emergency proclamation and the regulations imposed thereby, by
means of an ordinance passed at any regular or special meeting of the Village
Board of Trustees.
         (c)   The first regular meeting of the Village Board of Trustees
occurring more than 30 days after the emergency proclamation of the Mayor.
      (3)   Any village employee or officer may, at the direction of the Mayor,
notify and warn any person of the effect of the proclamation and direct the
person to comply with the watering or sprinkling restrictions. If any person,
after having first been warned about the restrictions and the proclamation,
shall continue to violate the restrictions of the proclamation, such person
shall be deemed to be in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2287, passed 3-3-2016)
§ 50.28 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Resale of water. No water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipients thereof from the municipal supply to any premises other than that
for which application has been made and a meter installed.
   (B)   Obstructing, interfering with water system.
      (1)   No person shall, in any manner, obstruct the access to any
stopcock, hydrant or valve or any public faucet or opening for taking water in
any street, alley, public ground or place connected with or a part of the water
system or plant nor pile nor place any lumber, brick or building material or
other article, thing or hindrance, whatsoever thereon, so as to, in any manner,
hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the Fire Department in reaching the
same.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, interfere
with or obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized use of water in the
water system, plant or water main hydrant or suffer or permit any of the things
to be done.
      (3)   Any person whose service pipe, water meter, shut-off box, public
fountain, valve, engine or building is connected with the water system or
plant, who performs any act in violation of this section shall be punished as
hereinafter provided and shall, in addition, be liable for actual damage done
or caused to be done.
(Prior Code, § 7-4B-13) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date
of this section, the use or attempt to use groundwater from within the
corporate limits of the village as a potable water supply by the installation
or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This
prohibition expressly includes the installation of any village owned or
operated well as a potable water supply.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
   (C)   Memorandum of Understanding. The Mayor is hereby authorized and
directed to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency (“Illinois EPA”) in which the village assumes
responsibility for tracking all sites that have received no further remediation
determinations from the Illinois EPA, notifying the Illinois EPA of changes to
this section, and taking certain precautions when siting public potable water
supply wells.
(Ord. 2160, passed 5-8-2014) Penalty, see §
50.99
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
§ 50.40 HOUSE SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   No householder or property owner or other person in the village shall
connect any private or house drains with any public sewer or drain in the
village without first having made application, in writing, to the village for a
permit to make the connections.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-1) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The application must be made by the owner of the property it is desired to
drain or by his or her duly authorized agent, and it must be accompanied by a
clear and exact description of the premises and of the character and location
of the drains that are proposed to be put in place, together with the number
and location of all water closets, sinks, bathtubs, receiving basins and other
sanitary fixtures designed to connect the same, which description must be left
and placed on file with the Village Board for future reference. Upon the
approval of the application by the Village Board, the Board shall issue to the
applicant a permit to connect the private or house drain with any public sewer
or drain; provided that, the applicant is justly and legally entitled thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-1-(1))
§ 50.42 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   All private or house drains laid in the village must be constructed in
accordance with the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   The least inclination that shall be allowed for water closets, kitchen
and all other drains, not over six inches in diameter liable to receive solid
substances, is one-half inch in two feet and for cellar and all other drains to
receive water, one-quarter inch in two feet. The ends of all pipes not to be
immediately connected with the water closets, sinks, downspouts or catch basins
must be securely guarded against the introduction of sand and earth by brick or
cement or other watertight or imperishable materials.
   (B)   All pipes that must be left open in drains, cellars, areas, yards or
gardens must be connected with suitable catch basins, which catch basins shall
be constructed of brick or cement pipe, be circular in section, not less than
three feet in internal diameter, at least three feet ten inches in depth and
shall be two feet six inches in the clear from the bottom of the outlet pipe to
the bottom of the basin and shall be trapped. The bottom of the trap shall be
six inches below the bottom of the outlet pipe. The brick work shall not be
less than four inches in thickness, set upon a bottom of one layer of brick,
and the brick shall be laid flat and shall not show more than four inches of
space on the inner surface of the basin, shall be laid in a workmanlike manner
and shall be thoroughly imbedded in hydraulic cement mortar so as to make the
basin watertight.
   (C)   No catch basin of any private or house drain shall be built in a
public street, but shall be placed inside of the line of the lots or parcels of
ground sought to be drained.
   (D)   No privy vaults shall be connected with any public sewer or drains,
except through an intervening catch basin, and the discharge pipe of the vault
shall be high enough to prevent anything, but the liquid contents of the vault
from passing into the sewer or drain.
   (E)   All private or house drains shall have a minimum diameter of six
inches and shall be constructed of glazed vitreous tile and all joints shall be
sealed with plastic asphalt and oakum or equal. All private or house drains
shall comply with applicable requirements of the Metropolitan Sanitary
District. All connections with sewers or drains used for the purpose of
carrying animal refuse from water closets or otherwise and slop of kitchens
shall have fixtures for a sufficiency of water to be so applied as to properly
carry off the matter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-1-(2))
§ 50.43 FEES.
   The fee for a permit to construct sewers and drains or to lay pipes to
connect with any sewers or drains built in any of the streets, alleys or
avenues of the village shall be as set, from time to time, by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees, but the permission shall not be granted except upon the
agreement, in writing, of the persons applying therefor, that the work will be
performed by a duly licensed plumber, that the applicants will comply with the
provisions of this subchapter and the other ordinances of the village in
relation to excavating the streets, that they will indemnify the village for
any damages or costs to which it may be put by the work so permitted and that
no claim will be made by them or their successors in interest against the
village or for exemption from any assessment lawfully imposed for constructing
sewers or drains in the vicinity of their property.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-1-(3))
§ 50.44 INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK.
   All work in connection with the installation of sewer connections performed
by licensed plumbers or by competent servants, agents or employees in the
employ of the plumbers, other than work done on local improvements paid wholly
or in part by special assessment, while the work is under the supervision and
control of the Board of Local Improvements, shall be subject to the inspection,
supervision and approval of the Village Board. The inspections shall be made by
the Superintendent of Public Works and/or by any other person so designated by
the Village Board. All sewer pipe and catch basin work shall be left exposed
for thorough inspection as to grades and quality of pipe, brick, cement and for
comparison with plans and shall not be covered up until passed upon by the
Village Board. Any violation of this rule shall be sufficient cause for
revocation of permits required by this subchapter and by other ordinances of
the village. If any faulty or defective work done by any licensed plumber or by
any servant, agent or employee of the plumber, at any time, is discovered by
the village, the licensed plumber or any servant, agent or employee of the
plumber shall not be permitted to do any further or additional work until the
defects or faults so discovered have been made good in a manner satisfactory to
the Village Board. Any licensed plumber who shall refuse, neglect or fail to
make good the defects or faults, when requested so to do by the Village Board
or who otherwise violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
subchapter or the other ordinances of the village shall not be permitted to
conduct, carry on or engage in the business of drain laying until satisfactory
assurance shall be given to the Mayor that the person will thereafter
faithfully observe the provisions of this subchapter and other ordinances of
the village and until the plumber shall have made good any loss, damage or
expense caused by or on account of any negligence or misconduct on his or her
part.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-1-(4))
§ 50.45 FOOTING DRAINS.
   Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and discharge shall be made
into storm sewers, combined sewers or drainage ditches. No footing drains or
drainage tile shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-2)
§ 50.46 UNCOVERING, EXCAVATING AROUND SEWERS.
   Any person who shall uncover or excavate under or around any catch basin or
brick or pipe sewers in the village, for any purpose whatsoever, without the
written consent of the Board of Trustees shall be punished as provided in this
chapter. The person by whom the work is done and his or her employees shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.47 LICENSED PERSONS TO DO WORK.
   No permit shall be granted under any section of this subchapter to any
person not licensed according to state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-4)
§ 50.48 OBSTRUCTION, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM; PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Discharge of certain substances prohibited. No flammable substances,
petroleum oils, greases, acids, cyanides, radioactive materials, industrial
wastes, milk by-products, butcher's offal or garbage, dead animals or
obstructions of any kind whatsoever shall be placed, thrown or deposited in any
receiving basin or sewer.
   (B)   Discharge of effluent.
      (1)   No roof drainage or storm water shall be discharged in any sanitary
sewer or basin.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the discharge of any
sanitary and industrial waste water into the storm sewer system constructed by
the State Department of Transportation within, along and upon the following
streets in the village:
         (a)   Kostner Avenue;
         (b)   Pulaski Avenue;
         (c)   135th Street; and
         (d)   139th Street.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person so offending or causing any obstruction or
substance to be placed so as to be carried into the basin or sewer shall be
punished as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-5-(1)) (Ord. 683, passed 5-4-1978; Ord. 725, passed 4-5-
1979; Ord. 769, passed 10-4-1979; Ord. 800, passed 6-5-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.49 OPEN DITCHES AND DRAINS.
   Any person who shall, by himself or herself or another, destroy or injure
the bank of any ditch, gully or open drain, or place any substance therein,
tending to obstruct the same or render it obnoxious, or shall obstruct the free
passage of water through the same or who shall, by himself or another, directly
or indirectly tap any public ditch or open drain in the village or connect any
private sewer, drain or ditch therewith without the written consent of the
Board of Trustees first had and obtained, shall be punished as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-5-(2))
§ 50.50 CULVERTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to obstruct, fill, place and/or remove any
culvert within the village without a permit granted by the Village Board of
Trustees and Mayor.
   (B)   The application for a permit to obstruct, fill-in, replace and/or
remove a culvert shall be in writing and state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant for the permit;
      (2)   The location of the subject culvert;
      (3)   The nature, design and type of obstruction, fill, replacement and/
or removal proposed; and
      (4)   The plan, design and method of assuring the continued flow and free
passage of water to, through and past the subject location.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued by the Board of Trustees and Mayor unless
the continued flow and free passage of water to, through and past the subject
location is unobstructed and by a drain pipe and/or tile of a diameter of not
less than 12 inches.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-5-(3)) (Ord. 677, passed 3-2-1978) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.51 SEWER BLOCKAGE; RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   With reference to sewer blockage, the following rules and regulations are
hereby adopted.
   (A)   In the event of sewer blockage, the owner or tenant of the premises in
question shall notify the Superintendent of Public Works or Village Clerk
immediately before embarking on any course of action.
   (B)   The village will not be responsible to any homeowner or his or her
tenant for plumbing bills they incurred.
   (C)   No person shall cause any excavation in any public streets, alleys or
public ways without the prior approval of the Village Board.
   (D)   The homeowner or his or her tenant is responsible for maintaining and
clearing service lines to the point of connection with the main sewer line.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-5-(4)) Penalty, see §
50.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.65 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A deposit shall be required, as follows, payable to the village, to
ensure the payment of all bills, when an application is made for the service
supplied by the combined waterworks and sewer system of the village:
      (1)   Single-family residential building users and school district, park
district and church users: $100;
      (2)   Apartment buildings: $100 for each and every dwelling unit, as
defined by the building ordinances and Zoning Code of the village; and
      (3)   Commercial and industrial users and rest home, shelter care
facility, nursing home or hospital users: $150.
   (B)   However, after service has commenced, the water collector may require
a user to deposit an additional sum equal to two billing permits for water
service and sewer service charges to the user.
   (C)   If any user fails to make the deposit as required by this section, the
village may add to the user's water bill the amount of the deposit as required
hereby.
   (D)   When service to the applicant is discontinued permanently, the
deposit, less any amount still due to the village for water service and/or
sewer service charges, shall be refunded without interest. If any depositor
entitled to a refund shall fail to apply for a refund within 24 months after
the deposit is due, the deposit shall be forfeited to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-4D-1)
§ 50.66 CONNECTION FEES.
   The permit fees for water and sewer connection shall be as follows.
   (A)   Water service connections.
      (1)   Single-family residential properties.
         (a)   Seven hundred and fifty dollars for each single-family
residential lot within the corporate limits of the village, unless owned and
occupied as a homestead by residents of the village of the age of 65 years or
more which qualifies for a homestead property tax exemption pursuant to the
laws of the state.
         (b)   Five hundred dollars for each single-family residential lot
within the corporate limits of the village owned and occupied as a homestead by
residents of the village of the age of 65 years or more which qualifies for a
homestead property tax exemption pursuant to the laws of the state.
      (2)   Apartments. For apartment buildings, $200 for each and every
dwelling unit as defined by the building ordinances and Zoning Code of the
village.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial properties. For commercial and industrial
properties, a water connection charge determined at a rate of $.05 per square
foot of the commercial or industrial parcel involved, as determined by the
Zoning Code of the village, and consisting of the total area contained within
the property lines, with a minimum water connection charge of $750.
      (4)   Rest homes, shelter homes and health care facilities. For rest
homes, shelter care facilities, nursing homes and hospitals, a water connection
charge determined at a rate of $.05 per square foot of the parcel involved
determined by the Zoning Code of the village and consisting of the total area
contained within the property lines, with a minimum water connection charge of
$750.
      (5)   School districts, park districts and churches. For school
districts, park districts and churches, $500 for each school, park or church
site to which service is desired.
      (6)   Outside corporate limits.
         (a)   Single-family residential properties: $1,000 for each single-
family residential lot not within the corporate limits of the village.
         (b)   Other properties: For apartments, commercial, industrial, rest
homes, shelter care facilities, nursing homes, hospitals, schools, parks and
churches not within the corporate limits of the village, the water connection
rates shall be as indicated in divisions (A)(2) through (5) above, plus an
additional 50% thereof, with a minimum connection charge of $1,000.
   (B)   Sewer connection fees.
      (1)   Single-family residential properties.
         (a)   Seven hundred and fifty dollars for each single-family
residential lot within the corporate limits of the village, unless owned and
occupied as a homestead by residents of the village of the age of 65 years or
more which qualifies for a homestead property tax exemption pursuant to the
laws of the state.
         (b)   Five hundred dollars for each single-family residential lot
within the corporate limits of the village owned and occupied as a homestead by
residents of the village of the age of 65 years or more which qualifies for a
homestead property tax exemption pursuant to the laws of the state.
      (2)   Apartments. For apartment buildings, $200 for each and every
dwelling unit as defined by the building ordinances and Zoning Code of the
village.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial properties. For commercial and industrial
properties, a sewer connection charge determined at a rate of $.05 per square
foot of the commercial or industrial parcel involved, as determined by the
Zoning Code of the village and consisting of the total area contained within
the property lines, with a minimum sewer connection charge of $750.
      (4)   Rest homes, shelter homes and health care facilities. For rest
homes, shelter care facilities, nursing homes and hospitals, a sewer connection
charge determined at a rate of $.05 per square foot of the parcel involved as
determined by the Zoning Code of the village and consisting of the total area
contained within the property lines, with a minimum sewer connection charge of
$750.
      (5)   School districts, park districts and churches. For school
districts, park districts and churches, $500 for each school, park or church
site to which service is desired.
      (6)   Outside corporate limits.
         (a)   Single-family residential properties: $1,000 for each single-
family residential lot not within the corporate limits of the village.
         (b)   Other properties: For apartments, commercial, industrial, rest
homes, shelter care facilities, nursing homes, hospitals, schools, parks and
churches not within the corporate limits of the village, the sewer connection
rates shall be as indicated in divisions (B)(2) through (5) above, plus an
additional 50% thereof, with a minimum connection charge of $1,000.
   (C)   Other connection fees. Permit fees for sewer and water connections not
designated in divisions (A) and (B) above shall be determined by the Mayor and
Village Board of Trustees upon application for water and sewer connections.
(Prior Code, § 7-4D-2) (Ord. 838, passed 1-15-1981)
§ 50.67 SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Water service rates. For water service as follows:
      (1)   For single-family residential building users and for school
districts, public library districts and church users:
         (a)   For the initial 10,000 gallons of water for each three-month
quarter of a year, as billed by the Crestwood Water Department and as
prescribed by this chapter, section, $72.
         (b)   For each 1,000 gallons of water (after the initial 10,000
gallons) for each three-month quarter, each 1,000 gallons shall be at the rate
$7.20.
         (c)   The minimum charge for water service for each three-month
quarter shall be $72.
      (2)   For condominiums/apartment buildings, computed as follows for each
unit as defined by the building ordinances and Zoning Code of the Village of
Crestwood:
         (a)   For the initial 3,000 gallons of water for each month, each
1,000 gallons shall be at the rate of $7.20.
         (b)   For each 1,000 gallons of water (after the initial 3,000
gallons) for each month, each 1,000 gallons shall be at the rate of $7.20.
         (c)   The minimum charge for water service for each month shall be
$24.47.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever two or more dwelling
units are served by a single water meter, the bracket of use, as established
above, shall be multiplied by the number of dwelling units served through the
said meter, and the minimum charge per month shall be multiplied by the number
of dwelling units served.
      (3)   For commercial and industrial users:
         (a)   For the initial 3,000 gallons of water for each month, each
1,000 gallons shall be at the rate of $7.20.
         (b)   For each 1,000 gallons of water (after the initial 3,000
gallons) for each month, each 1,000 gallons shall be at the rate of $7.20.
         (c)   The minimum charge for water service for each month shall be
$26.81.
      (4)   For rest homes, shelter-care facilities, nursing homes or hospital
users:
         (a)   For the initial 10,000 gallons of water for each three-month
quarter of a year as billed by the Crestwood Water Department and as prescribed
by this section, each 1,000 gallons shall be at the rate of $7.20.
         (b)   For each 1,000 gallons of water (after the initial 10,000
gallons) for each three-month quarter, each 1,000 gallons shall be at the rate
of $7.20.
         (c)   The minimum charge for water service for each three-month
quarter shall be $72 for each user.
      (5)   For residential, apartment, commercial, industrial, rest home,
shelter care, nursing home, hospital, school, park and church users not within
the corporate limits of the Village of Crestwood, the water service charges and
rates shall be as indicated in divisions (1) through (4) directly above, plus
an additional charge, as determined by the Village Board, upon application for
service by a prospective non-residential user, commensurate with the additional
cost to the village for the providing of water service by a factor of 1.5
(150%).
      (6)   Water service charges and rates for installations not defined in
the preceding divisions shall be determined and designated by the Village Board
upon application for service by a prospective user.
   (B)   Capital improvement charge. The rate for capital improvements for
water service for single-family residential buildings, school districts, public
library districts, church users, condominiums/apartment buildings, commercial
and industrial users, the additional charge for capital improvements instituted
on November 1, 2014 shall continue to be charged for each 1,000 gallons of
water at a rate of $2.06.
   (C)   Sewer consumption rates. The rates for sewer consumption, service and
usage, as prescribed in this section of the Crestwood Village Code, are hereby
amended to be and read as follows. For sewer service as follows:
      (1)   Single family residential. Twenty dollars per quarter.
      (2)   Condominiums/apartment buildings. Five dollars per month per unit.
      (3)   Specified users. For school districts, the park districts or church
users, the sum of $4 per quarter for each toilet or urinal installed.
      (4)   Commercial and industrial users. Sewer service charges for
industrial and commercial users shall be based upon water usage per month and
computed as follows:
         (a)   Two dollars per 1,000 gallons of water for the first 10,000
gallons.
         (b)   One dollar fifty cents per 1,000 gallons of water for the next
90,000 gallons of water used.
         (c)   One dollar and twenty cents per 1,000 gallons for the next
100,000 gallons of water used.
         (d)   One dollar per 1,000 gallons for all usage over 200,000 gallons.
         (e)   The minimum usage charge for commercial and industrial users
shall be $8 per month.
      (5)   For rest homes, shelter care facilities, nursing homes or hospital
users. Two dollars and fifty cents per quarter for each and every bed permitted
as defined by the Building Ordinance and Zoning Code of the Village of
Crestwood.
      (6)   For single family residential, condominiums, apartment buildings,
commercial users, industrial users, rest homes, shelter care facilities,
nursing homes, hospitals, schools, parks and churches not within the corporate
limits of the Village of Crestwood, the sewer service charges and rates shall
be as indicated in divisions (1) through (5) of this division multiplied in
each case by a factor of 1.50 (150%).
      (7)   Sewer service charges not defined in the preceding divisions shall
be designated by the Board of Trustees and Mayor upon application for service
by a prospective user.
(Prior Code, § 7-4D-3) (Ord. 1952, passed 1-17-2008; Ord. 1999, passed 12-17-
2009; Ord. 2102, passed 1-3-2013; Ord. 2142, passed 1-9-2014; Am. Ord. 2192,
passed 10-9-2014; Ord. 2208, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2273, passed 12-17-2015;
Ord. 2339, passed 1-18-2017; Ord. 2428, passed 5-17-2018; Ord. 2484, passed 3-
21-2019; Ord. 2493, passed 5-16-2019; Ord. 2689, passed 8-17-2023)
§ 50.68 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   (A)   Delivery of moneys; funds kept separate. All of the revenues and
moneys derived from the operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage
system shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and apart from all other
moneys that may come into his or her hands as Village Treasurer and shall be
deposited in a separate bank account, and all sums, without any deductions
whatsoever, shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than five days
after the receipt of the same or at more frequent intervals as may, from time
to time, be directed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Water and Sewer Fund. The Village Treasurer shall receive all of the
revenues from the combined waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds
and monies incident to the operation of the combined system, as may be
delivered to him or her, and he or she shall deposit the same in a separate
bank account which shall be accounted for as a separate fund designated as the
Water and Sewer Fund of the village. The Village Treasurer shall administer the
Water and Sewer Fund in every respect in the manner provided by law or village
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-4D-4)
§ 50.69 BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks and sewerage
system, and at regular, annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an
audit by a certified public accountant of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the combined waterworks and sewerage system.
(Prior Code, § 7-4D-5)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $750 and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 7-4A-4)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
50.45 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-2)
   (C)   Any person who shall, by himself, herself or another, directly or
indirectly, willfully or maliciously, damage, injury or obstruct any sewer,
house drain, cesspool, water closet pipe, catch basin, manhole, protection pier
or any appurtenance thereto now or hereafter to be laid or constructed in the
village shall be liable for each offense and may be punished as provided in
this chapter and shall further be liable to pay all expenses incurred on
account of repairs or damages resulting from the willful or malicious act.
(Prior Code, § 7-4C-5-(5))
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
50.67 by tampering with any meter or otherwise avoiding the charges imposed by
§
50.67 shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed in each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues, in addition to the payment of charged imposed by §
50.67.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation found using a village fire hydrant
without permission or without paying for waste shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed in each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues, in addition to the
payment of charges imposed by §
50.67.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.29 shall be subject to a fine of up to $750 per day for each violation. The
use of such prohibited potable water supply each day shall be a separate
offense.
(Ord. 872, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 1999, passed 12-17-2009; Ord. 2160, passed 5-
8-2014)
CHAPTER 51: RESPONSIBLE BIDDER CRITERIA
Section
   
51.01   Responsible bidder criteria
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Conflicts of interest and improper influence, see
Ch. 38
§ 51.01 RESPONSIBLE BIDDER CRITERIA.
   In determining which bidder is a “responsible bidder” on village public
works projects, the bidder must comply with the following criteria and submit
acceptable evidence of that compliance, in addition to any other requirements
as determined from time to time by the village for the specific type of work to
be performed. The Village Services Director shall promulgate forms, which shall
be executed with the public works contract, and which shall require the
following contractor submissions and certifications:
   (A)   Compliance with all applicable laws and village codes and ordinances
prerequisite to doing business in the state and the village, including required
village licenses;
   (B)   Evidence of:
      (1)   Submittal of Federal Employer Tax Identification number or Social
Security number (for individual); and
      (2)   Compliance with provisions of 42 U.S.C. § 2000e and Federal
Executive Order No, 11375 (known as the equal opportunity employer provisions).
   (C)   Certificates of insurance indicating at least the following coverage,
at minimum limits established by the village: general liability, worker’s
compensation, completed operations, automobile, hazardous occupation, product
liability, and professional liability;
   (D)   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act,
including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for those
trades as covered by the Act;
   (E)   Participation in apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training;
   (F)   Compliance with the applicable provisions of the Illinois Human Rights
Act and the rules of the Illinois Human Rights Commission;
   (G)   Adoption of sexual harassment policy pursuant to Illinois Public Act
87-1257;
   (H)   Furnishing of required performance and payment bonds;
   (I)   Certificate of no delinquency in the payment of any tax administered
by the Illinois Department of Revenue;
   (J)   Certificate that the bidder is not barred from bidding or contracting
as a result of a violation of either ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 33E or ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 33E-4;
   (K)   Evidence the bidder has not only the financial responsibility but also
the ability to respond by the discharge of the contractor’s obligations in
accordance with that which is expected or demanded under the terms of the
contract;
   (L)   Submission of a contractor’s drug-free workplace certification;
   (M)   Submission of an indemnity and hold harmless agreement; and
   (N)   Submission of an anti-collusion affidavit of compliance.
(Ord. 2152, passed 3-20-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   VEHICLE LICENSES
      
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   PEDESTRIANS
      
74.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
      
75.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
      
76.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
77.   PARKING RULES
      
78.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
79.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
80.   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VEHICULAR REGULATION VIOLATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Bicycles and animals
   
70.04   Obedience to officials and traffic laws
   
70.05   Accidents
   
70.06   Abandoned vehicles
   
70.07   Destructive materials on roadways
   
70.08   Illinois Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.09   Unlawful use of license or permit
   
70.10   Driving while driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked
Impoundment of Vehicles
   
70.25   Violations authorizing impoundment
   
70.26   Offenses
   
70.27   General regulations
   
70.28   Notice
   
70.29   Preliminary hearing
   
70.30   Hearing
   
70.31   Administrative fee
   
70.32   Vehicle possession
   
70.33   Administrative review
   
70.34   Effective date
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title shall be known as the "Traffic Code of the Village of Crestwood".
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire
Department, ambulances, emergency vehicles of village departments, public
service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities, and vehicles used by members of the Fire Department when operated
and equipped as required by this title.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons.
   CROSSWALKS. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of sidewalk lines at intersections or any other
portion of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by markings.
   DRIVER. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. A procession consisting of motor vehicles which are
designed and used for the carrying of not more than seven passengers, a funeral
hearse and floral cars, or combinations thereof, with any following foot units
and equestrian units, proceeding to a place of burial.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more marked lanes for
vehicular traffic.
   LIMITED ACCESS OR CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every public way in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same, except at the points only and in
a manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the public way.
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction
thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his
or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any
other vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle, including every power scooter, power
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower and every
bicycle with motor attached.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A public way upon the roadway of which traffic is permitted
to travel in only one direction.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKING (TO PARK). The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon
a roadway, for a period of time greater than is reasonably necessary either for
loading or unloading or in obedience to traffic regulations or official traffic
signs or signals.
   PARKWAY. The portion between the curb line or the lateral lines of a roadway
and the adjacent property line; except that, where a sidewalk has been
constructed or laid, it is between the curb line or the lateral lines of a
roadway to the nearest portion of the sidewalk.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any sidewalk, roadway or other public thoroughfare open to the
use of the public, as a matter of right, for the purposes of travel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privileges of the immediate use of the highway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a public way between the regularly established curb
lines or that part improved and intended to be used for vehicular travel.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in
this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyance, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices, not
inconsistent with the "Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways", placed or
erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction for the
purposes of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left, but when the roadway is clear, may proceed into the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Crosswalks, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113
   Intersections, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132
   Motor driven cycle, see ILCS 625, Act 5,§ 1-145.001
   Operator, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154.2
   Parking (to park), see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156
   Pedestrian, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158
   Right-of-way, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177
   Trailer, see ILCS, Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209
   Vehicle, see ILCS, Ch. 625, Act 5,§ 1-217
§ 70.03 BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions hereof which, by
their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 70.04 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIALS AND TRAFFIC LAWS.
   (A)   Obedience to officials.
      (1)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title or in emergencies
as public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction
of a police officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any
person not authorized by the Chief of Police to direct or attempt to direct
traffic.
      (2)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of a police officer, Fire Department official or any other
authorized officer.
   (B)   Obedience to traffic laws. It is unlawful and, unless otherwise
declared in this title with respect to particular offenses, for any person to
do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic
accidents and to arrest and obtain prosecution of those persons guilty of
violations of law causing or contributing to accidents.
   (B)   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing
traffic accident reports and shall file the accident reports or cards referring
to them alphabetically by location.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 70.06 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any motor vehicle on
any public way within the village.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle standing or parked on any public way in a state of
disrepair as to be incapable of being driven in its condition or any motor
vehicle which has not been moved or used for more than seven consecutive days
and is apparently deserted shall be presumed to have been abandoned.
   (C)   Each day the vehicle remains so abandoned shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 DESTRUCTIVE MATERIALS ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Throwing or depositing injurious materials. No person shall throw or
deposit upon any public way any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans
or any other substance likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon the
public way. Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
public way any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Materials from accidents or damaged vehicles. Any person removing
wrecked or damaged vehicles from a public way shall remove any glass or other
injurious substance dropped upon the highway from the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   The village adopts the Illinois Vehicle code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100
et seq., by reference as if appearing in total.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of Illinois Vehicle Code, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204
   General Provisions   8A
§ 70.09 UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   It is a violation of this section for any person:
      (1)   To display or cause to be displayed or have in his possession any
cancelled, revoked or suspended license or permit;
      (2)   To lend his license or permit to any other person or knowingly
allow the use thereof by another;
      (3)   To display or represent as his own any license or permit issued to
another;
      (4)   To fail or refuse to surrender to the Secretary of State or his
agent or any peace officer upon his lawful demand, any license or permit, which
has been suspended, revoked or cancelled;
      (5)   To allow any unlawful use of a license or permit issued to him;
      (6)   To submit to an examination or to obtain the services of another
person to submit to an examination for the purpose of obtaining a driver's
license or permit for some other person.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 2480, passed 3-21-2019)
§ 70.10 DRIVING WHILE DRIVER'S LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE A MOTOR
VEHICLE IS SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
   (A)   It is a violation of this section for any person to drive or be in
actual physical control of a motor vehicle on any highway of this state at a
time when such person's driver's license, permit or privilege to do so or the
privilege to obtain a driver's license or permit is revoked or suspended as
provided by the Illinois Vehicle Code or the law of another state, except as
may be specifically allowed by a driving permit issued by the Secretary of
State or a restricted driving permit issued pursuant to the Illinois Vehicle
Code or under the law of another state.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 2480, passed 3-21-2019)
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 70.25 VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING IMPOUNDMENT.
    A motor vehicle operated with the permission, express or implied, of the
owner of record, which is used in connection with the following violations, may
be subject to seizure and impoundment by the village, if the violation prevents
the driver from lawfully operating the vehicle, or if a police officer
authorized to make arrests in the village determines that impoundment of the
vehicle is reasonably necessary as a community-caretaking function so that the
vehicle does not jeopardize public safety and the efficient movement of
vehicular traffic. The owner of record of the vehicle shall be liable to the
village for an administrative penalty, in addition to any towing and storage
fees as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2576, passed 11-5-2020)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission or attempted
commission of any offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and forfeited
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq., shall subject the owner to an
administrative fee of $500.
   (B)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compounds, in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501, shall
subject the owner to an administrative fee of $500.
   (C)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
or attempted commission of any felony offense in violation of the provisions of
the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq., shall
subject the owner to an administrative fee of $500.
   (D)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
or attempted commission of any offenses in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substance Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 100, shall subject the owner to an
administrative fee of $500.
   (E)   Driving while driver's license, permit or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303, shall subject
the owner to an administrative fee of $500; except that vehicles shall not be
subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation
(parking or moving), or due to failure to comply with emissions testing.
   (F)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance as defined
by the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 2, or the
Illinois Controlled Substance Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq., shall
subject the owner to an administrative fee of $500.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2099, passed 1-3-2013; Ord. 2576, passed 11-
5-2020)
§ 70.27 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing
state or federal laws or village ordinances pertaining to vehicle seizure,
towing and impoundment, and the owner shall be subject to the penalties
provided in this subchapter in addition to any penalties that may be assessed
by a court for any criminal charges.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation
was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within 24 hours after the theft was discovered.
   (C)   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this subchapter shall
be those approved by the Chief of Police for all tow companies authorized to
tow for the Police Department.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 70.28 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle
is subject to towing and impoundment pursuant to this subchapter, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by
the Chief of Police. Before or at a time the vehicle is towed, the police
officer shall notify the owner of the impoundment, and of the owner's right to
request a preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted pursuant to §
70.29 below. The vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the
hearing provided for in §
70.29 below, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the village a cash bond
in the amount of $500 and pays the accrued towing and storage charges.
   (B)    Before the time a vehicle is towed, if, in the judgment of the police
officer then present, a person authorized by the owner or operator of the
vehicle is present and able to provide for the lawful immediate removal of the
vehicle, the vehicle will be released to that person, and if prompt removal of
the vehicle is effected, no administrative penalty shall be imposed.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2576, passed 11-5-2020)
§ 70.29 PRELIMINARY HEARING.
    If the owner of record of a vehicle impounded pursuant to this subchapter
desires to appeal the impoundment, the owner must make a request for hearing
within 24 hours of the impoundment, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and village
holidays. The request shall be in writing and filed with the Chief of Police or
his or her designee, who shall conduct the preliminary hearing within 48 hours
after receipt of the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and village
holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of
evidence shall not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after the hearing, the Chief of
Police or his or her designee determines there is probable cause to believe
that the vehicle is subject to impoundment pursuant to this subchapter, he or
she shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this
subchapter, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the village a cash bond
in the amount of $500 and pays the tower any applicable towing and storage
fees. If the Chief of Police or his or her designee determines that there is no
probable cause, the vehicle will be returned without penalty or other fees.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2576, passed 11-5-2020)
§ 70.30 HEARING.
   (A)   Within ten days after a vehicle is impounded pursuant to this
subchapter, the village shall notify the owner of record, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the date, time and location of a plea hearing that
will be conducted, pursuant to this subchapter. The hearing shall be conducted
by a hearing officer designated by the Mayor. The owner will appear at a plea
hearing and enter a plea of guilty or not guilty. If a plea of guilty is
entered, the cause will be disposed of at that time. If the owner pleads not
guilty, a hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless continued by the hearing
officer, no later than 90 days after the vehicle was impounded. All interested
persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At
any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer may, at the request of
either party, direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. The
formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence
shall be admissible only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably
prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   (B)   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the vehicle was used in connection with a
violation set forth in this subchapter, the hearing officer shall enter a
written order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable to the
village.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2099, passed 1-3-2013; Ord. 2576, passed 11-
5-2020)
§ 70.31 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   If an administrative fee is imposed pursuant to this subchapter, the fee
shall constitute a debt due and owing the village. If a cash bond has been
posted pursuant to this subchapter, the bond shall be applied to the fee. If a
vehicle has been impounded when a fee is imposed, the village may seek to
obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce the judgment against the vehicle's
owner as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this section, a
vehicle shall continue to be impounded until the fee is paid to the village and
any applicable towing fees and storage fees are paid to the tower, in which
case possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally
entitled to possess the vehicle or the vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of
to satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by law. If the
administrative fee and other applicable fees are not paid within 30 days after
an administrative fee is imposed against an owner of record who defaults by
failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases, if the administrative fee and
applicable fee are not paid within 30 days after the expiration of time at
which administrative review of the hearing officer's determination may be
sought, or within 35 days after an action seeking administrative review has
been resolved in favor of the village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle
shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by
law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2099, passed 1-3-2013)
§ 70.32 VEHICLE POSSESSION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lien
holder or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
vehicle impounded under this section until the administrative fee and fees
applicable under this subchapter have been paid. However, whenever a person
with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or
she agrees in writing to refund the village the amount of the net proceeds of
any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lien holders of
record, not to exceed the administrative fee, plus the applicable fees.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, the OWNER OF RECORD of a vehicle is
the record titleholder as registered with the secretary of state of the state
of Illinois.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 70.33 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   Any owner, lien holder or other person with a legal interest in the vehicle
who is not satisfied with the decision of the hearing officer shall have the
right to appeal the decision to the circuit court pursuant to the
Administrative Review Act, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2576, passed 11-5-2020)
§ 70.34 EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval as provided by law.
(Ord. 2038, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2576, passed 11-5-2020)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the police to patrol the
public highways and to make arrests for violations of the provisions of this
title.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-1)
      (2)   Parking violations.
         (a)   Nuisance declared; impoundment. Every vehicle parked in
violation of this title is hereby declared to be a nuisance which may be abated
by any police officer by removing and conveying the vehicle to the vehicle
pound or pounds designated by the Village Board. Before the owner or person
entitled to possession of any legally impounded vehicle shall be permitted to
remove the same, he or she shall furnish evidence of ownership or right to
possession, and shall pay for the cost of towing or removal to the vehicle
pound and the cost of storage for each day or fraction thereof in the pound.
         (b)   Parking tickets. Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of
the provisions of this title prohibiting or restricting parking, and there is
no person in attendance upon the parked vehicle to be arrested or served
immediately with a notice to appear in court to answer the charge of the
violation, any police officer observing the violation may attach to the vehicle
used in the violation, a notification or ticket, so that the person in whose
name the vehicle is registered may appear in court on a day certain to be named
on the ticket and answer to the charges of the violation. It shall be unlawful
for any person, other than the driver of the vehicle to which the ticket or
notification is attached, to remove same from the vehicle.
         (c)   Prima facie responsibility. Whenever any vehicle shall have been
parked in violation of any provisions of this title prohibiting or restricting
parking, the person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be prima
facie responsible for the violation and subject to the fee thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-2)
      (3)   Fines and penalties. In the absence of any other fine or penalty
stated in the other provisions of this title:
         (a)   Any person convicted of violations of §
76.14(B) or (C) shall be fined not more than $750.
         (b)   Any person convicted of violations of §
70.06 shall be fined not more than $750 or imprisoned in the county jail for
not less than two days and not more than one year or both the fine and
imprisonment.
         (c)   Any person convicted of violations of any section of this title,
except those specifically mentioned in divisions (A)(3)(a) or (b) above or for
which a fine and/or penalty has not been provided elsewhere in this title,
shall be fined not more than $750.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-3)
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a
visual or audible signal by a peace officer directing the driver or operator to
bring his or her vehicle to a stop, according to §
70.04(A), willfully fails or refuses to obey the direction, increases his or
her speed, extinguishes his or her lights or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer, shall be fined not more than $750. The signal given by the
peace officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red or blue light; provided, the
officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform, and if driving a vehicle,
the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police vehicle. Notice
of conviction shall be sent to the Secretary of State for penalties prescribed
by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 2576, passed 11-5-2020)
CHAPTER 71: VEHICLE LICENSES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   License required
   
71.03   Application for license; issuance
   
71.04   License tag or sticker
   
71.05   License fees
   
71.06   Term of license; payment of license fees; proration; transfers
   
71.07   Disposition of license fees
   
71.08   Application of provisions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASS A BUS. A motor vehicle designed for the carrying and transportation of
24 or less passengers.
   CLASS B BUS. A motor vehicle designed for the carrying and transportation of
25 or more passengers.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled otherwise than by the muscular power of
humans or animal.
   TRACTOR. An automotive vehicle designed for and used to draw or haul one or
more nonautomotive vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 786, passed 12-20-1979)
§ 71.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person residing in the village or for any
person having his or her principal office or place of business in the village
to use or to cause or permit any of his or her agents or employees to use any
motor vehicle in the transportation of persons or property or the conveyance of
loads upon the streets, avenues or alleys of the village unless the motor
vehicle is licensed as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   Any person desiring a license for a motor vehicle shall file an application
therefor with the Village Clerk upon a form provided by the Clerk, setting
forth the name and address of the applicant, the description of the motor
vehicle and information as may be prescribed. The license shall issue upon the
payment by the applicant of a license fee, as hereinafter provided, to the
Village Clerk, and shall authorize the use of the motor vehicle within the
village until the expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 71.04 LICENSE TAG OR STICKER.
   (A)   Upon the issuance of a license as required by this chapter, the
Village Clerk shall deliver to the applicant a gummed tag or sticker upon which
shall appear the words "CRESTWOOD" and a number identical with the number of
the license and the year for which the license is issued, and it shall be the
duty of the applicant to affix the gummed tag or sticker upon the lower right
corner of the windshield of the motor vehicle or, if there is no windshield,
then in a conspicuous place upon the motor vehicle where it can be readily
seen.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle, although otherwise duly
licensed, for any vehicle either registered in the village or regularly
utilized or housed in the village, to be used, parked, housed, or operated upon
the streets, avenues or alleys of the village, unless a village tag or sticker
is attached thereto. Provided, however, a village sticker shall not be required
for such vehicles registered in a municipality or other unit of government
outside the village, where a valid tag or sticker from such other municipality
or other unit of government is displayed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to affix or cause to be affixed
any license tag or sticker to any vehicle other than the vehicle to which the
license tag or sticker was intended to be affixed at the time of the issuance
thereof by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 2210, passed 2-5-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fee to be paid, annually, to the Village Clerk, as required in
this chapter, shall be as follows:
SCHEDULE OF FEES
Late Penalties Will Be Applied on March 1, 2015
     License Fee Late Charge Total If Late
SCHEDULE OF FEES
Late Penalties Will Be Applied on March 1, 2015
      Type                          License Fee Late Charge Total If Late
Passenger cars                            $10         $10         $20
Senior citizens, 65 and older             $5          $5          $10
Recreation vehicles (RV plates)           $10         $10         $20
Motorcycles, mopeds and scooters          $5          $5          $10
School buses, Class A                     $20         $10         $30
School buses, Class B                     $30         $10         $40
Trucks                                    $15         $10         $25
   “B” plate                       $20         $10         $30
   “D-F” plate                     $30         $10         $40
   All other plate classifications
Transfer from one like vehicle to another $5          -           -
 
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 787, passed 12-20-1979; Ord. 2191, passed 10-9-
2014)
§ 71.06 TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; PRORATION; TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Term of license. All licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be for a calendar year and shall begin January 1 and expire
December 31 following their issuance.
   (B)   Payment of license fees. The fees for all licenses required by this
chapter shall be due and payable annually in advance of January 1 of each year.
In addition to the license fee required by this chapter, an additional amount
of $5 shall be collected by the Village Clerk from any applicant applying for a
license on or after March 1 of the current year, if the license applied for is
for a vehicle which the applicant owned on or before January 1 of the current
year.
   (C)   Prorated license fees. If a vehicle for which a license is required by
this chapter is purchased or lawfully acquired by the applicant on or after
July 1 of any current year, the fee to be paid shall be a sum equal to one-half
of the annual license fee hereinbefore specified, as a license fee for the
balance of the year. Before any applicant shall be entitled to a prorated
license as provided for in this division, the applicant shall furnish an
affidavit in form satisfactory to the Village Clerk, stating that the vehicle
for which the license is applied for was purchased or otherwise obtained by the
applicant on or after July 1 of the current year and shall exhibit to the
Village Clerk the bill of sale covering the vehicle for which a license is
sought.
   (D)   Transfer of license.
      (1)   Immediately upon the sale or transfer of any motor vehicle which
has been licensed as required by this chapter prior to the date of the sale or
transfer, the vendor or transferor shall remove the license tag or sticker from
the motor vehicle so sold or transferred, and the license so issued for the
motor vehicle shall cease to apply to the motor vehicle from the date.
      (2)   Upon a showing to the Village Clerk that the tag or sticker has
been so removed from the sold or transferred vehicle, the Village Clerk may
issue, for any fee of $1 a new tag bearing a new number, which shall apply to
and be assigned to any other vehicle of the same class owned by the vendor or
transferor; except no tag or sticker issued for or assigned to any vehicle
shall ever be used for or attached to or upon another and different motor
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6)
§ 71.07 DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES.
   The proceeds of the fees, except for the cost of tags and collection, shall
be used for improving, paving, repairing and maintaining streets and other
public roadways of the village; except that, if the Village Board directs, not
more than the percentage of fees as allowed by the State Municipal Code of the
annual gross revenue from these licenses may be used for the payment of
salaries and wages of police officers engaged in regulation of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7)
§ 71.08 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   No person residing within the village shall be exempt from the operation of
this chapter or released from the payment of the license fee required by reason
of the registering of an automobile or other vehicle in another state or
sovereignty beyond the jurisdiction of the state, but if the automobile or
other vehicle is used or operated on the public ways of the village, it shall
be subject to the provisions of this chapter, even though it has been
registered in some other jurisdiction outside of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions and/or regulations of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
      (2)   Any person taking, destroying, removing or obliterating any license
tag, plate or emblem provided for in this chapter without the consent of the
owner of the subject vehicle shall be fined not more than $500 for each
offense. Every wrongful destruction, obliteration or removal of the license
tag, plate or emblem from any vehicle shall be considered a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person owning more than one vehicle for which a license is
required by this chapter who shall violate any provision of this chapter as to
more than one vehicle owned by the person shall be chargeable with separate and
distinct offenses as to each vehicle.
      (4)   A separate and distinct offense shall be considered as committed
for each and every day any vehicle is used upon the public ways of the village
without a license having been obtained therefor and/or without having complied
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions and/or regulations of §
71.05(A) shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
(Ord. 787, passed 12-20-1979; Ord. 788, passed 12-20-1979)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Obedience
   
72.02   Signal legend
   
72.03   Flashing signals
   
72.04   Pedestrian-control signals
   
72.05   Unauthorized devices
   
72.06   Interference
   
72.07   Posting signs
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
§ 72.01 OBEDIENCE.
   (A)   Generally. The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of
any official traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance
with the provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
   (B)   Traffic lanes. Where traffic lanes have been marked to preserve a
regular alignment of traffic, it shall be unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle to fail or refuse to keep his or her vehicle within the designated
boundaries of any lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, successively, one at a time, in combination or with
arrows, the following colors only shall be used, and the lights shall indicate
and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or "Go".
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal indication may proceed straight
through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn,
but vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield
the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal indication is
illuminated.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal indication may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Green with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal indication may proceed straight
through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn,
but vehicular traffic within a lane designated and restricted as a turning lane
only shall enter an intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow when it is illuminated and shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal indications may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (C)   Yellow or "Caution" when shown with or following the green or "Go"
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal indications shall enter the roadway
until the green or "Go" signal indication is illuminated alone unless
authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk" signal indication.
   (D)   Yellow or "Caution" when illuminated in combination with the red or
"Stop" signal indication. Vehicular traffic facing the signal indications is
thereby informed that the green or "Go" signal indication will be illuminated
immediately thereafter and the vehicular traffic shall remain standing until
the green or "Go" signal indication is illuminated alone.
   (E)   Red or "Stop".
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal indication shall stop before
entering the intersection at a marking on the pavement indicating where the
stop shall be made, but in the absence of any marking, shall stop at the signal
device and shall remain standing until the green or "Go" signal indication is
illuminated alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal indication shall enter the roadway
unless he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular
traffic.
   (F)   Red with green arrow and green arrow alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal indications may cautiously
enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, but
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to
other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal indications or indication shall
enter the roadway until the green or "Go" signal indication is illuminated
alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk" signal indication.
   (G)   Applicability. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which, by their
nature, can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 72.03 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signal indications are used, they shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal indication). When a red lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, the operator of any vehicle shall stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked or if none, then before entering the intersection at the signal, and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal indication). When a yellow lens is
illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, the operator of any vehicle may
proceed through the intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
§ 72.04 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words "Walk",
"Don't Walk" or "Wait" are in place, the signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   "Walk".
      (1)   Pedestrians facing the signal indication, when illuminated, may
proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk in the
direction of the signal indication and shall be given the right-of-way by the
operator of any vehicle.
      (2)   When the "Walk" signal indication is extinguished, no pedestrian
facing the signal indication shall enter the roadway.
   (B)   "Wait", "Don't Walk" or Flashing "Don't Walk". No pedestrian shall
start to cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, but any
pedestrian who has partially completed his or her crossing on the "Walk" signal
indication shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone while the "Wait" or
"Don't Walk" signal indication is illuminated.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
public way any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device, and
no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon
any public way any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to public ways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and the Superintendent of Streets is hereby empowered to and
shall remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Streets to post adequate signs
for the effective enforcement of this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7)
CHAPTER 73: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.01   Application of provisions
   
73.02   Right-of-way
   
73.03   Use of roadways
   
73.04   Blind persons
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
§ 73.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections as
provided by law, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the
privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions as stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 73.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers of
vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk, and pedestrians
within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the
right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded
the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to pedestrians within any other
crosswalk at the intersection.
   (B)   When the movement of traffic is not controlled by official traffic-
control signals or a police officer, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be, to yield to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 USE OF ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Generally. At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than
by the most direct route to the opposite curbing and, when crossing at any
place other than a crosswalk, he or she shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Pedestrians walking along roadways.
      (1)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any
pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
      (2)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   Soliciting rides. It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or
loiter upon any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or public highway or grounds
within the limits of the village for the purpose of "thumbing", requesting,
asking or soliciting a ride from the operator of any motor vehicle.
   (D)   Obstructing traffic prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay or to willfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other person who is
lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any sidewalk or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 BLIND PERSONS.
   (A)   Right-of-way.
      (1)   Any blind person who is carrying, in a raised or extended position,
a cane or walking stick which is white in color or white-tipped with red or who
is being guided by a dog shall have the right-of-way in crossing any roadway,
whether or not traffic on the roadway is controlled by the traffic signals,
anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind
person so carrying a cane or walking stick or being so guided is crossing a
roadway shall bring his or her vehicle to a full stop and, before proceeding,
shall take precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not apply to a blind
person who is not so carrying a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a
dog, but the other provisions of this chapter relating to pedestrians shall
then be applicable to the person.
   (B)   Imitating blind persons. It shall be unlawful for any persons, except
wholly or partially blind, to carry or use on the public streets of the village
any canes or walking sticks which are white in color or white with red ends on
bottoms.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
   
74.01   Clear vision
   
74.02   Lights and reflectors
   
74.03   Brakes
   
74.04   Horns and other signaling devices
   
74.05   Mirror
   
74.06   Muffler; exhaust system
   
74.07   Tires; nonskid devices
   
74.08   Registration plates; vehicle identification
   
74.09   Vehicle weight and load
   
74.10   School buses
   
74.11   Size and weight regulations
 
   
74.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
§ 74.01 CLEAR VISION.
   (A)   Vehicle loads obstructing vision. No person shall drive a vehicle when
it is loaded or when there are in the front seat numbers of persons, exceeding
three, as to obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the
vehicle or as to interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism
of the vehicle.
   (B)   Passengers obstructing vision. No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in
a position as to interfere with the driver's view ahead or the sides or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   Obstructing windshields and windows.
      (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a highway with any
sign, poster, card, sticker or other nontransparent material upon the front
windshield, side wings, side or rear windows of the vehicle; except that, the
signs, posters, cards, stickers or other materials may be placed on the
windshield within a seven-inch square in the lower corner farthest removed from
the driver's position or upon the side windows of the vehicle to the rear of
the driver and so placed that the materials will not obstruct the driver's view
of approaching traffic.
      (2)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a roadway with any
object so placed in or upon the vehicle as to obstruct the driver's clear view
through the windshield, except required or permitted equipment of the vehicle.
      (3)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a roadway when the
conditions of the windshield, because of damage, snow, ice, dirt, fog, moisture
or other substance or material on the windshield, obstruct the driver's view of
approaching traffic.
   (D)   Windshield wipers required. Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles
and motor-driven cycles, operating on a roadway and equipped with a windshield
shall also be equipped with a self-operating windshield wiper installed thereon
which shall be maintained in good operating condition. Any windshield wiper as
required herein to be installed on a vehicle shall provide clear vision through
the windshield for the driver and shall be operated under conditions of fog,
snow or rain.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   When, upon any highway in the state, every motorcycle shall at all
times exhibit at least one lighted lamp showing a white light, commonly known
as a driving lamp, visible for at least 500 feet in the direction the
motorcycle is proceeding. All other motor vehicles shall, during the period
from sunset to sunrise, or at any other time when visibility is so limited as
to require the use of lights for safety, exhibit two lighted driving lamps
showing white lights or lights of a yellow or amber tint, visible for at least
500 feet in the direction the motor vehicle is proceeding. Parking lamps may be
used in addition to, but not in lieu of any driving lamps. Every motor vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least two lighted lamps, commonly
known as taillamps, which shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of
the vehicle so as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the
reverse direction; except that, a motorcycle or a truck tractor or road tractor
manufactured before 1-1-1968, need be equipped with only one lamp.
      (2)   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when
required and render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear.
Any taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps for
illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the driving lamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
      (3)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall be equipped with
at least one lamp so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 300
feet in the reverse direction whenever the brakes, as required in §
74.03 are put into operation.
   (B)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one
spot lamp, and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
   (C)   Colored lights; flashing lights.
      (1)   Restrictions generally.
         (a)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any
roadway with any lamp or device thereon displaying a red light visible from
directly in front thereof.
         (b)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or left turn, stop or emergency.
         (c)   No spot light mounted on any vehicle, whether the spot light is
in operating condition or not, shall be equipped with a lens or other device
which would, if the spot light were operated, show a light other than a white
light.
         (d)   Except as authorized by law, no person shall drive any vehicle
displaying a blue light thereon, and any person violating this division shall
be punished as provided in §
70.99. The provisions of divisions (C)(1)(a), (b) and (c) above shall not apply
to authorized emergency vehicles; the provisions of divisions (C)(1)(a), (b)
and (c) above shall not apply to vehicles operated by, or on behalf of, the
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency of the village or any other authorized
emergency unit; the provisions of paragraph d above shall not apply to members
of the Village Police or Fire Departments or to the Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency of the village.
      (2)   Emergency services and disaster agency vehicles.
         (a)   Special amber-colored lights are permitted upon privately owned
vehicles operated within the village by or on behalf of the Emergency Services
and Disaster Agency of the village of a design, type and location as authorized
by the Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency.
         (b)   Special red-colored lights are permitted on single-lighted
vehicles owned by the village and operated by or on behalf of the Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency of the village of a design, type and location as
authorized by the Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency and
as permitted by applicable state statutes, the State Motor Vehicle Code and the
State Emergency Services and Disaster Agency.
         (c)   Special red- and/or blue-colored lights are permitted in multi-
lighted vehicles, owned by the village and operated by or on behalf of, the
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency of the village of a design, type and
location as authorized by the Coordinator of the Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency and as permitted by applicable state statutes, the State Motor
Vehicle Code and the State Emergency Services and Disaster Agency.
   (D)   Lights on parked vehicles.
      (1)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any lighted
street within a business or residence district, no lights need be displayed
upon the parked vehicle.
      (2)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon an unlighted street or highway
during the hours of one hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, the
vehicle shall be equipped with one or more lamps which shall exhibit a white
light on the roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
      (3)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
   (E)   Lights on trailers.
      (1)   Every trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less,
including the weight of the trailer and maximum load, shall be equipped with
two lighted lamps, one on each side of the rear of the trailer, which shall be
so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the
reverse direction.
      (2)   Every trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less,
including the weight of the trailer and maximum load, towed either by a motor
vehicle of the first division or a motor vehicle of the second division shall
be equipped with two red reflectors, which will be visible when hit by
headlight beams 300 feet away at night, on the rear of the body of the trailer
not more than 12 inches from the lower left-hand and right-hand corners.
   (F)   Lights on nonmotorized vehicles. All nonmotor-driven vehicles, except
as otherwise provided by this chapter, including animal-drawn vehicles while
being operated on the roadway between the period of sunset to sunrise, shall at
all times be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a
white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and
with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) (Ord. 1144, passed 10-19-1989) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 BRAKES.
   (A)   Brakes required:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the vehicle, including two separate means of applying the
brake, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least
two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are connected,
in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one part of the
operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at
least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle and bicycle with motor attached, when operated
upon a highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be operated
by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of and to stop and to hold the vehicle and so designed as
to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its cab, and the
brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an accidental
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes.
      (1)   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles operating on a level surface shall be adequate to stop the vehicle or
vehicles when traveling 20 mph within a distance of 30 feet when upon dry
asphalt or concrete pavement surface free from loose material.
      (2)   Under the above conditions, the hand or alternate brake shall be
adequate to stop the vehicle or vehicles within a distance of 55 feet and the
hand or alternate brake shall be adequate to hold the vehicle or vehicles
stationary on any grade upon which operated.
      (3)   Under the above conditions, the service brakes upon a motor vehicle
equipped with two-wheel brakes only and when permitted hereunder shall be
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 40 feet and the hand brake
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet.
      (4)   All braking distances specified in this division shall apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether the vehicles are not loaded or are loaded to the
maximum capacity permitted by law.
      (5)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 HORNS AND OTHER SIGNALING DEVICES.
   (A)   Horn required. Every motor vehicle, when operated upon any public way,
shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200
feet, but no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or
harsh sound or a whistle.
   (B)   Use of horns and signaling devices.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use the horn at any time.
      (2)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any vehicle, except as
a danger signal, or the creation by means of any signal device of any
unreasonable loud or harsh sound or the sounding of any device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   Unauthorized signaling devices. No vehicle shall be equipped with, nor
shall any person use upon a vehicle any siren, whistle or bell; except that,
this shall not apply to an authorized emergency vehicle as otherwise permitted
in this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 MIRROR.
   Motor vehicles of either division which are so constructed or loaded as to
obstruct the driver's view to the rear thereof from the driver's position shall
be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver's view of the
roadway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 MUFFLER; EXHAUST SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways of the
village shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust
system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive
or unusual noise. No muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cut-
out, bypass or similar device, and no person shall modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of the
vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle
and the original muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this
section.
   (B)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 TIRES; NONSKID DEVICES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All motor vehicles and all other vehicles in tow thereof or
thereunto attached operating upon any roadway shall have tires of rubber or
some material of equal resiliency. Solid tires shall be considered defective
and shall not be permitted to be used if the rubber or other material has been
worn or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than three-fourths of an inch
or if the tires have been so worn or otherwise damaged as to cause undue
vibration when the vehicle is in motion or to cause undue concentration of the
wheel load on the surface of the road.
      (2)   All motor vehicles of the second division operating upon any
roadway shall have pneumatic tires unless exempted herein.
      (3)   The requirements of this division do not apply to agricultural
tractors or traction engines or to agricultural machinery, including wagons
being used for agricultural purposes in tow thereto, or to road rollers or road
building machinery operated at a speed not in excess of ten mph.
   (B)   Lugs, cleats, nonskid devices.
      (1)   No metal-tired or studded-tired vehicle, including tractors, motor
vehicles of the second division, traction engines and other similar vehicles,
shall be operated over or along any street in the village if the vehicle has on
the periphery of any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge,
lug or any projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread
or traffic surface of the tire. This prohibition does not apply to pneumatic
tires with metal studs between October 1 of any year and May 1 of the following
year or to track-type motor vehicles when that part of the vehicle coming in
contact with the road surface does not contain any projections of any kind
likely to injure the surface of the road or to tractors, traction engines and
similar vehicles which have upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other
cleats arranged in a manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface; provided that, the gross weight upon the wheels per inch of width of
the cleats in contact with the road surface, when measured in the direction of
the axle of the vehicle, does not exceed 800 pounds.
      (2)   In no event shall the surface of any street be used as an area or
space for turning any tractor or other farm machinery in carrying on or
performing any farming operations upon the adjacent land; provided that,
nothing in this division contained shall prohibit the operation of tractors,
traction engines or motor trucks across any street in order to reach adjacent
lands if the street is protected by putting down solid planks or other suitable
devices to prevent the vehicle from injuring the surface of the street.
   (C)   Exemptions. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
use of tire chains of reasonable proportion upon any vehicle when required for
safety because of snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to
skid.
   (D)   Additional provisions. In addition to the provisions of divisions (A),
(B) and (C) above, no metal-tired vehicle shall be moved on any public way
having on the periphery of any wheel a block stud, flange, cleat or spike or
any other protuberance of any metal other than rubber which projects beyond the
tread of the traction surface of the tire; except, it shall be permissible to
use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for
safety because of snow, ice, mud or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle
to skid.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-7) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 REGISTRATION PLATES; VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Registration plates.
      (1)   Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle other than a
motorcycle, trailer, semi-trailer or truck-tractor shall be attached thereto,
one in the front and one in the rear.
      (2)   The registration plate issued for a motorcycle, trailer or semi-
trailer shall be attached to the rear thereof.
      (3)   The registration plate issued for a truck-tractor shall be attached
to the front thereof.
      (4)   Every registration plate shall, at all times, be securely fastened
in a horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent
the plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the
ground, measuring from the bottom of the plate, in a place and position to be
clearly visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and all in
a condition to be clearly legible.
   (B)   Identification on second division vehicles. No second division vehicle
shall be operated upon public ways unless there is painted or otherwise firmly
affixed to the vehicle on both sides thereof, in a color or colors vividly
contrasting to the color of the vehicle, the name and address of the owner
thereof and the maximum empty weight of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-8) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 VEHICLE WEIGHT AND LOAD.
   (A)   Weight restrictions on certain streets. Whenever official signs are
erected prohibiting the use of any street or part of a street by trucks or
other commercial vehicles or imposing set limitations upon the vehicles using
the street or part of a street as authorized herein, no person shall drive a
truck or other commercial vehicle upon any street or part of a street in
violation of any signs, except for the purpose of delivering or picking up
materials for merchandise, and then only by entering the street at the
intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle and proceeding thereon no
farther than the nearest intersection thereafter.
   (B)   Projecting loads.
      (1)   No passenger vehicle shall be operated on any roadway with any
loaded carrier thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left
side of the vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof.
      (2)   No commercial vehicle shall be operated on any roadway with any
load extending to the rear four feet or more beyond the bed or body of the
vehicle unless there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load:
         (a)   During the periods when lighted lamps are required in this
chapter, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the rear and sides. The red light or lantern required under this
division shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every
vehicle; and
         (b)   During all other times, a red flag or cloth not less than 16
inches square. This flag or cloth shall be visible to the driver of any vehicle
approaching from the rear or sides.
   (C)   Spilling loads and depositing debris from vehicles.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway or street in the
village unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its
load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except
that, sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substance may be sprinkled in cleaning or maintaining the highway or
street.
      (2)   No person shall operate on any highway or street any vehicle with
any load unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets of the village.
      (3)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle so as to leave, track or
otherwise deposit mud upon the roadway. If any person shall violate this
division (C)(3), it shall be his or her duty to immediately remove the mud from
the roadway.
      (4)   If any portion of a load shall be dropped upon the roadway, it
shall be the duty of the operator of the vehicle to immediately remove it from
the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-9) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10 SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof plainly visible signs containing the words
"SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight inches high and, in addition, shall
be equipped with visual signals meeting the requirements of law which shall be
actuated by the driver of the school bus whenever the brakes are applied.
   (B)   The visual signals shall be actuated by the driver at a distance of
not less than 100 feet immediately preceding the point at which the bus stops
for the purpose of loading or discharging passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-10)
§ 74.11 SIZE AND WEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions apply.
      ANNUAL TRIPS. Those trips that are known to be continuous in nature.
Annual-trip permits are valid for a period not to exceed 365 days from the date
of issuance.
      CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police for the Village of Crestwood Police
Department.
      NON-DIVISIBLE. A load or vehicle that, when separated into smaller loads
or vehicles, further dismantling would:
         (a)   Compromise the intended use of the load or vehicle, or make it
unable to perform the function for which it was intended;
         (b)   Destroy the value of the load or vehicle or make it unusable for
its intended purpose;
         (c)   Require more than eight work hours to dismantle using
appropriate equipment. The applicant for a non-divisible load has the burden of
proof as to the number of work hours required to dismantle the load.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Village of Crestwood Police Department.
      QUARTERLY TRIPS. Those trips that are known to be continuous in nature.
Quarterly-trip permits shall be for a period not to exceed 90 calendar days
from the date of issuance, unless otherwise directed by the Police Department.
      ROUND TRIP. Two trips over the same route in opposite directions. Round-
trip permits are effective for ten consecutive calendar days from the date of
issuance, unless otherwise directed by the  Police Department. Any additional
stops between the points of origin and the point of destination are expressly
prohibited.
      SINGLE TRIP. One trip from the point of origin to the point of
destination. Any additional stops between the point of origin and the point of
destination are expressly prohibited. Single-trip permits are effective for
five consecutive calendar days from the date of issuance, unless otherwise
directed by the Police Department.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois.
   (B)   Restrictions on weight and size enforced.
      (1)   A permit shall be required for the movement of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles, which is non-divisible or is carrying a load which is
non-divisible, while operating on the highways owned and maintained by the
village, that exceeds the maximum size and weight limits described in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 15-102 (width), 15-103 (height), 15-107 (length), and 15-111
(weight), as amended.
      (2)   All single-trip, round-trip, quarterly-trip and annual-trip permits
are limited to movements on assigned routes only and cannot be used to avoid
using a state, county or township road or highway.
      (3)   Maximum limitations.
         (a)   All quarterly-trip and annual-trip permits are restricted to the
following maximum limitations:
            1.   Twelve feet, zero inches in width;
            2.   Thirteen feet, six inches in height;
            3.   One hundred fifteen feet, zero inches in length.
         (b)   The maximum dimensions for single-trip- and round-trip-permit
requests shall be approved on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Exempt vehicles. The following vehicles shall be exempt from the
permit requirements set forth in this section:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Those vehicles operating under an emergency declaration;
      (3)   Those vehicles and any equipment used for snow or ice removal and
owned or operated by or for any governmental body;
      (4)   Implements of husbandry;
      (5)   Public utility vehicles owned or operated by the village, other
public bodies, public utility companies, or any contractor or material man
thereof, while engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of streets or
utility facilities within the village, or while traveling to or from such
street repairs or public utility facilities, where the only access to such
repairs or utility facilities is over streets within the village that have not
been designated truck routes;
      (6)   Vehicles engaged in the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse.
   (D)   Issuance of permits.
      (1)   The Chief of Police, or his/her designee, may issue a special
permit authorizing the owner, operator or lessee of an oversize or overweight
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, to operate on any highway owned and
maintained by the village. Permits shall be issued only in the name of the
person, firm, business or corporation that owns and operates the transporting
vehicle or operates the vehicle under a bona fide lease agreement.
      (2)   The permit, when issued, constitutes an agreement between the
permittee and the village that the move described in the application will take
place only as described.
      (3)   Permits are to be issued for good cause to insure movements will
not unduly damage village highways.
      (4)   Permits are only valid for the dates and times specified, and the
Chief of Police, or his/her designee, is authorized to create and amend
reasonable provisions for permits. Permits for oversize vehicles are valid only
a half hour before sunrise until a half hour after sunset, on any day that a
permit issued by the Illinois Department of Transportation is valid.
      (5)   Permits are non-transferable to other vehicles and must be carried
in the permitted vehicle, in either paper or electronic form, unless otherwise
directed by the Police Department and presented upon demand to any police
officer for inspection.
      (6)   No substitution of vehicle, load or routing is permitted without
expressed, written permission by the Chief of Police or his/her designee.
      (7)   No permits shall be issued to an applicant who has outstanding fees
or payments due to the village.
   (E)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Fee schedules.
         (a)   The fee schedule for overweight (including overdimension)
vehicles shall be as follows:
            Single trip (5 days):      $50
            Round trip (10 days):      $80
            Quarterly (90 days):       $200
            Annual:         $800
         (b)   The fee schedule for oversize only (legal weight) vehicles shall
be as follows:
            Single trip (5 days):      $25
            Round trip (10 days):      $40
            Quarterly (90 days):      $100
            Annual:         $400
      (2)   Revisions to permits.  The Police Department, in its discretion,
may issue revisions to permits for a fee of $20 (or 50% of the original permit
fee if the original permit fee was $30 or less):
         (a)   To correct an error attributed to the Police Department (no
revision fee);
         (b)   To correct an error attributed to the applicant, discovered
before the move;
         (c)   To adjust weights, dimensions or routes as issued on the permit,
before the move is made.
      (3)   Collection of fees.  The village is responsible for the collection
of permit fees and may make rules and regulations as to acceptable methods of
payment and due dates. Any unpaid permit fees will be turned over to a
collection agency under contract with the village.
   (F)   Applications for permit.
      (1)   The owner, operator or lessee shall apply for a permit, under this
section in the method and form provided by the village, along with the
applicable fee set forth in division (E).
      (2)   All applications for permits shall be given full consideration.
Permits for proposed moves may be issued when:
         (a)   The highways owned and maintained by the village will not be
unduly damaged; and
         (b)   The safety of the traveling public will be adequately protected.
      (3)   Applications for a permit to move an oversized and overweight
vehicle and/or load must be made to the Police Department. In addition to any
other information deemed necessary by the Police Department, the following
information shall be included in the permit application:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner or lessee of the vehicle;
         (b)   The applicant’s name;
         (c)   The type of permit requested (e.g., annual, single-trip,
quarterly, round-trip);
         (d)   The type of vehicle(s) and vehicle(s) make;
         (e)   The weight(s) and dimensions of the vehicle(s);
         (f)   Description of the load;
         (g)   The highways under the jurisdiction of the village to be
traveled.
   (G)   Approval of permit application.  The Chief of Police, or his/her
designee, is authorized to approve the permit application. Upon approval, the
Chief of Police shall issue a permit allowing travel of the oversized and/or
overweight vehicle over streets and highways owned and maintained by the
village. The permit, issued on forms provided by the village or using an
electronic permit service, shall be specific and contain, at minimum:
      (1)   Permit number;
      (2)   The date the permit is valid and the date the permit expires;
      (3)   Whether the permit is single-trip, round-trip, quarterly or annual;
      (4)   The description of the object or vehicle to be moved;
      (5)   Authorized gross weight, individual axle weights, width, length and
height; and
      (6)   The date and signature, written or electronic, of the Chief of
Police or his/her designee.
   (H)   Duties of permittee.
      (1)   It is the duty of the permittee to read and understand the permit
provisions upon receipt. The permittee has the responsibility to report to the
village any inaccuracies or errors on the part of either the village or the
permittee before starting any move.
      (2)   It is the duty of the applicant to verify the non-divisibility of
the vehicle(s) and/or load(s) before making application for the permit. The
permit application, itself, is prima facie evidence that the applicant
confirmed the vehicle(s) and/or load(s) were non-divisible.
      (3)   Undertaking the move is prima facie evidence of the permittee’s
acceptance of the permit as issued and its terms, and that:
         (a)   The permittee is in compliance with all operation requirements;
         (b)   No dimension and weight limitations specified in the permit will
be exceeded;
         (c)   All operation, registration, and license requirements have been
complied with;
         (d)   All financial responsibilities, obligations, and other legal
requirements have been met; and
         (e)   The permittee assumes all responsibility for injury and damage
to persons or to public or private property, including his or her own, or to
the object being transported, caused directly or indirectly by the
transportation or movement of vehicles and objects authorized under the permit.
The permittee agrees to hold the village harmless from all suits, claims,
damages, or proceedings of any kind, and to indemnify the village for any claim
it may be required to pay arising from the movement.
      (4)   If required, arrangement shall be made by the permittee to have the
proper utilities notified, property moved, bridge or highway analysis performed
and completed in advance of any permit movement.
      (5)   All movements made by a permittee under a permit shall be made in
accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances and
rules and regulations.
   (I)   Denial, suspension and reinstatement.
      (1)   The Chief of Police, or his/her designee, shall administer and
enforce this section, and shall have the authority to grant, deny, suspend or
reinstate permits. Any applicant or permittee denied a permit or who has had a
permit suspended, upon written request, shall be given a hearing before the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, first, then before the Village
Services Director if the permittee is still unsatisfied.
      (2)   Permits are null and void if altered for the purpose of deception.
      (3)   The permits issued under this section constitute a grant of a
privilege by the village, and may be denied or suspended for such reasons as
the village may deem rationally related to its governmental interests
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   A permittee fraudulently provides incorrect information in an
application for a permit; or
         (b)   A permittee, its agents or employees operating on a permit that
has been altered for the purposes of deception; or
         (c)   Non-compliance by permittee, its agents or employees with
federal, state, or local ordinances pertaining to the transport of goods or
operation of a vehicle engaged in the transport of goods; or
         (d)   Moving on village streets or highways without a valid permit as
required under this section.
      (4)   A vehicle(s) and/or load found to be divisible will render the
permit null and void.
      (5)   Suspension of a current permit issued under this section shall be
for the time determined appropriate by the Police Department; however,
reinstatement may be made upon conditions determined by the village and payment
of all outstanding settlements or judgments.
   (J)   Police escorts.  Civilian or police escorts shall be required at the
discretion of the Police Department. The total number of police officers
necessary to provide for a safe move shall be determined by the Police
Department. Fees for police escorts shall be in addition to the permit fees set
forth herein and included in the billing, invoicing and collection of permit
fees. Police escort fees shall provide for a minimum of two hours of service,
calculated by the most current overtime rate established by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 2398, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating the provisions of §
74.02(C) shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating §
74.11 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) (Ord. 2398, passed 12-7-2017)
CHAPTER 75: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
Motorcycles
   
75.01   Riding on motorcycles
   
75.02   Motorcycle equipment
Bicycles
   
75.15   Application of traffic laws
   
75.16   Operation of bicycles
   
75.17   Bicycle equipment
   
75.18   Responsibility of parent or guardian
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
MOTORCYCLES
§ 75.01 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat or saddle attached thereto, and the operator shall not permit more
than one other person to ride thereon nor shall other person ride on the
motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two people, in which event, the
passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle if
it is designed for two persons or astride another seat or saddle firmly
attached to the rear of the operator; however, any seat or saddle designed for
a passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips, and in addition, the
motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit the passenger. A
sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional persons may ride.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1)
§ 75.02 MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Required equipment on motorcycles.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars more than 15
inches in height above that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by the
operator.
      (2)   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or
enclosed cab, shall be equipped with permanent handgrips on the seat or saddle
carrying the passenger and with footrests adjusted to fit the passenger.
   (B)   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles. The operator of a
motorcycle and every passenger thereon shall be protected by glasses, goggles,
helmet or a transparent shield as approved by the State Department of Law
Enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
BICYCLES
§ 75.15 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the village applicable to the driver
of a vehicle, except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by
their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1)
§ 75.16 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Obedience to traffic signals.
      (1)   Any person operating a bicycle shall comply with official traffic-
control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left turn or a turn in the opposite direction is permitted, no person operating
a bicycle shall disobey the direction of any sign except where the person
dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event, the person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   Speed. No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (C)   Emerging from alley, driveway or building. The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to
all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering
the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   (D)   Riding on right. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall
ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same
direction, at all times giving the right-of-way to other moving vehicles.
   (E)   Riding in prohibited areas. Bicycles shall not be operated upon any
roadway where the operation of bicycles has been prohibited and signs have been
erected indicating the prohibition.
   (F)   Riding in a group. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride other than single file, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (G)   Use of bicycle paths. Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been
provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not
use the roadway.
   (H)   Carrying packages. No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
   (I)   Parking; obstructing pedestrian traffic. No person shall park a
bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway against the curb or upon the
sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or against a building or at the curb
in a manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.17 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Lights and reflectors. Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall
be equipped with a headlamp which shall emit a white light visible from a
minimum distance of 500 feet from the front and with a rear red reflector of
the type capable of reflecting the headlamp beams of an approaching motor
vehicle back to the operator of the vehicle at distances up to 200 feet or a
rear lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of at least 200 feet
from the rear.
   (B)   Bell or signaling device. No person shall operate a bicycle unless it
is equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for
a distance of at least 100 feet; except that, a bicycle shall not be equipped
with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Brake. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.18 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
title applicable to bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
76.02   Driver's signals
   
76.03   Turning movements
   
76.04   Right-of-way
   
76.05   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite direction
   
76.06   Duty to drive on right
   
76.07   Overtaking vehicles
   
76.08   Through, stop and yield intersections
   
76.09   One-way streets
   
76.10   Restrictions on driving
   
76.11   Obstructing traffic
   
76.12   Funeral processions
   
76.13   School buses
   
76.14   Prohibited acts
   
76.15   Unattended vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
§ 76.01 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Operation of emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this division, but subject to the
conditions herein stated. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         (a)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger
life or property; and
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
      (2)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any vehicle, while in motion, sounds
audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary
and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying an
oscillating, rotating or flashing beam visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle; except
that, an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a lighted lamp as required herein nor need the driver
of a police vehicle, while in motion, sound an audible signal by bell, siren or
exhaust whistle if the police vehicle is displaying an oscillating, rotating or
flashing beam as described heretofore.
      (3)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (B)   Duty of driver on approach of authorized emergency vehicle.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police or fire vehicle giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell or when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp
displaying an oscillating, rotating or flashing beam or upon the immediate
approach of any other authorized emergency vehicle giving audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell and when the other vehicle is equipped with at
least one lighted lamp displaying an oscillating, rotating or flashing beam
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right-hand edge of the curb, except on one-way streets where
drivers shall drive as close as possible to the nearest edge of the curb of the
roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in a position until
the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by
a police officer or a firefighter in the lawful exercise of his or her duty as
provided in this title.
      (2)   This division shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
   (C)   Fire Department vehicles.
      (1)   Following fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle other than one
on official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response
to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet.
      (2)   Driving over fire hose. No motor vehicle shall be driven over an
unprotected hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street, private
driveway or other public way to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without
the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 DRIVER'S SIGNALS.
   (A)   Signals required.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving an appropriate signal in the manner herein provided, in the event
any other vehicle may be affected by the movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given during
not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
the signal.
   (B)   Manner of signaling. Any stop or turn signal, when required herein,
shall be given either by means of the hand or arm or by a signal lamp or lamps
or mechanical device, all of which signals shall be plainly visible and
understandable in normal sunlight and at night from a distance of 100 feet to
the front and rear, but shall not project a glaring or dazzling light; except
that, a stop signal need be visible only from the rear.
      (1)   Mechanical signals. All mechanical signal devices shall be self-
illuminated at all times when in use.
      (2)   Hand signals. Hand and arm signals shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner:
         (a)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
         (b)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
         (c)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an
intersection shall do so as follows:
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns.
         (a)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the
right of the center line where it enters the intersection or on that portion of
the roadway that may be specifically designated for the purpose by appropriate
markings, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
         (b)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle or on that portion of
the roadway that may be specifically designated for the purpose by appropriate
markings, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction upon the roadway being
entered.
      (3)   Obedience to signs.
         (a)   When authorized markers or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
indications.
         (b)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right
or left turn or turn in the opposite direction is permitted, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of any sign.
   (B)   U turns prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to turn a vehicle in any roadway so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, unless appropriate signs are erected to permit the turns.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
roadway.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from different streets at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way regulations, as provided in divisions (A) and (B)
above, are modified at intersections and entries to roadways where posted signs
regulate the right-of-way as provided elsewhere in this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION.
   (A)   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions, except as
otherwise herein provided, shall pass each other to the right, and upon
roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction,
each driver shall give to the other at least one-half of the main traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   (B)   On approaching another vehicle proceeding in an opposite direction and
when within not less than 350 feet of same, any person in charge of a
motorcycle or motor vehicle equipped with electric headlight or headlights
shall dim or drop the headlight or headlights.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.06 DUTY TO DRIVE ON RIGHT.
   (A)   Driving on the right.
      (1)   All vehicles shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for
traffic or as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway:
         (a)   When proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the
time and place and under the conditions then existing; and/or
         (b)   When designed and used for transportation, pulling or hauling of
freight, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
      (2)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven in
the right-hand lane available for traffic, except as follows:
         (a)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while
under construction or repair;
         (b)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and/or
         (c)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Driving on the left prohibited; exceptions. No vehicle shall, at any
time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection;
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct, tunnel or
subway; and/or
      (4)   When official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right or a double yellow-colored center line is marked. The foregoing
limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.07 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Overtaking on the left. The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated:
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   Overtaking on the right.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn; providing, there is sufficient safe clearance distance between the
turning vehicle and the right edge of the roadway;
         (b)   Upon any roadway with obstructed pavement not occupied by parked
vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles in each
direction; and
         (c)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
   (C)   Overtaking left of center. No vehicle shall be driven to the left side
of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction unless the left side is clearly visible and is
free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the
overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering with the safe
operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction of any vehicle
overtaken. In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand
side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 THROUGH, STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Through streets.
      (1)   After the operator of a vehicle has stopped at the entrance to a
through street, the operator shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
which have entered the intersection from the through street or which are
approaching so closely on the through street as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but the operator, having so yielded, may proceed, and the operators of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection on the through street shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicles so proceeding into or across the through
street.
      (2)   After the operator of a vehicle has stopped in obedience to a stop
sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances
thereto, although not a part of a through street, the operator shall proceed
cautiously yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the
intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard,
but may then proceed.
   (B)   Stop streets. When stop signs are erected as herein provided at or
near the entrance to any intersection, every operator of a vehicle shall stop
the vehicle at the sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering the
intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer.
   (C)   Yield right-of-way intersections. Where preference is given to traffic
through any intersection on any roadway and specified entrances to the
intersection are designated as yield right-of-way entrances by the erection of
yield right-of-way signs, the driver of a vehicle, in obedience to a yield
right-of-way sign, shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions or shall stop if necessary and shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersecting roadway either from the right or
left or which are approaching so closely on the intersecting roadway as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed at
a time as a safe interval occurs.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Authority to designate; signs posted. The Village Board may, from time
to time, designate streets or parts of streets which traffic shall be permitted
to move in one direction only. Whenever any intersection is so designated, the
Superintendent of Streets shall cause to be erected and maintained suitable
signs, signals or markings giving notice thereof, and it shall be unlawful to
fail to comply with any sign, signal or marking.
   (B)   Traffic on one-way streets. Upon those streets and parts of streets
designated as one-way streets, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction, when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at intersections and where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING.
   (A)   Emerging from alley, driveway or building. The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately
prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across an
alleyway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to
avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
   (B)   Backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the
movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other
traffic.
   (C)   Controlled access highways. No person shall drive a vehicle onto or
from the roadway of any controlled access highway, except at the entrances and
exits as are established by public authority.
   (D)   Following too closely. The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of the vehicle and the traffic upon and condition of the roadway.
   (E)   Driving on sidewalk or parkway.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area or
within any parkway area between a sidewalk area and the curb of a roadway,
except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
      (2)   No person shall ride or drive any vehicle for pleasure or business
on or across any sidewalk, median strip or lawn where there is no regular
approach to the same, and it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any
premises or lot to construct good and sufficient approaches to the sidewalk
where the same is necessarily crossed in gaining access to the premises or lot
by any private entrance.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not so operate the vehicle or allow
the same to remain upon any street in a manner as to form an unreasonable
obstruction to the traffic thereon.
   (B)   No operator of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or crosswalk
unless there is sufficient space beyond the intersection or crosswalk in the
direction which the vehicle is proceeding to accommodate the vehicle without
obstructing the passage of other vehicular traffic or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.12 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions identified.
      (1)   All motor vehicles participating in a funeral procession, when
proceeding to any place of burial, shall display illuminated headlamps thereon
and shall carry on the right-hand side of the windshield thereof a card which
shall be white in color and upon which shall be printed, stamped or stained a
purple cross or star, the extremities of which shall extend to the edge of the
card.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the undertaker having charge of a funeral
procession to supply each motor vehicle in the procession with a card as
described herein.
   (B)   Right-of-way. All motor vehicles so designated shall have the right-
of-way over all other vehicles, except fire apparatus, ambulances and police
vehicles, at any roadway intersection within the village and may proceed
through stop street or signalized intersections with proper caution and safety.
   (C)   Driving through funeral processions. No operator of a vehicle shall
drive between the vehicles, persons or animals comprising a funeral or other
authorized procession, except when otherwise directed by a police officer. This
provision shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in this
title.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.13 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The driver of a vehicle upon a roadway upon meeting or overtaking, from
either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle
before reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus a
visual signal as specified by law, and the driver shall not proceed until the
school bus resumes motion or is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or
the visual signals are no longer actuated.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.14 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Negligent driving. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
vehicle upon a public way negligently, heedlessly and without due caution in a
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
   (B)   Reckless driving. No person shall drive or operate any vehicle with a
willful or a wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.
   (C)   Drag racing.
      (1)   No person shall participate in drag racing as an operator of a
motor vehicle on any public way or private or public parking lot in the
village.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), DRAG RACING means the act of
two or more persons in two or more motor vehicles competing or racing on any
street or public way or in any private or public parking lot in a situation in
which one of the motor vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle
operated by a competing driver, and one driver attempts to prevent the other
driver or drivers from passing or overtaking him or her.
      (3)   Speed and manner of driving alone shall be sufficient evidence of
the violation of this division, and it shall not be necessary to prove that one
of the drivers so involved attempted to prevent another driver from passing him
or her by placing his or her vehicle in front of another vehicle or otherwise
attempting to cut off a competing driver.
   (D)   Unlawful riding. No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion
thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within the truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   (E)   Attaching to moving vehicles. Any person riding upon any bicycle,
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, coaster, sled, roller skates or any toy vehicle
shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.15 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key or when standing upon any perceptible grade without effectively setting
the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 77: PARKING RULES
Section
   
77.01   Determination of parking restrictions; signs posted
   
77.02   No parking places
   
77.03   Method of parking
   
77.04   General parking restrictions
   
77.05   Buses
   
77.06   Parking for disabled persons
   
77.07   Moving parked vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
§ 77.01 DETERMINATION OF PARKING RESTRICTIONS; SIGNS POSTED.
   The Board of Trustees and Mayor may, from time to time, designate areas in
which parking is prohibited or prohibited during certain hours or limited in
time or otherwise regulated or restricted. It shall be the duty of the
Superintendent of Streets to erect, install and maintain suitable signs or
markings giving notice of the regulations and restrictions, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any sign or marking;
provided, however, that, this section shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled on the paved, improved or main traveled portion of a
highway in a manner and to an extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping
and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in the position.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.02 NO PARKING PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand or park
the vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with directions of a police
officer or official traffic sign or signal:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct or in any subway and the approaches
thereto;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of an official traffic signal or stop sign on the
approaching side;
   (E)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (F)   At any curb within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (G)   At any place within 20 feet of the entrance to any fire station and on
the side of any street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance;
   (H)   At any place where the standing of any vehicle will block the use of
any driveway;
   (I)   On any sidewalk (including partial parking);
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (L)   At any place where official traffic signs have been erected
prohibiting stopping, standing or parking, including fire lanes on public and
private property;
   (M)   Under the lowest portion of any fire escape;
   (N)   Upon any parkway, except in case of emergency;
   (O)   In the area between the front of a residence and the roadway, except
on a driveway;
   (P)   On any private parking lot or private property unless authorized by
the owner thereof; and
   (Q)   On any public way between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.03 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   Parallel parking. No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway
other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of
lawful traffic movement and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12
inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this
section.
   (B)   Diagonal parking.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park the
vehicle diagonally to the edge of the roadway, except where the diagonal
parking is permitted by suitable signs and markings.
      (2)   For the purpose of facilitating the cleaning of streets, the
Commissioner of Streets and Sanitation is authorized to erect temporary signs
designating the days of the week and hours of the day and the part of the
street in which the parking of vehicles is prohibited during the periods and at
the location designated on the signs, as provided in division (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.04 GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Double parking. Double parking is prohibited.
   (B)   Vehicles of second division. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle,
except a private passenger vehicle with a seating capacity of not more than
seven passengers, on any street for a longer period than is necessary for the
reasonably expeditious loading and unloading of the vehicle.
   (C)   Vehicles for sale; peddling merchandise. It shall be unlawful to park
any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for sale or to
park any vehicle upon which merchandise is being offered to the public for
sale.
   (D)   Parking during snowfall. It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a
period of time longer than three minutes for loading and unloading of
passengers or 30 minutes for loading and unloading of property in any place,
whether designated as a loading zone or not so designated, at any time after
snow begins to fall and for a period of eight hours after snow stops falling,
if the snow on the street exceeds one inch in depth; providing that, the eight-
hour parking restriction shall continue during snow removal operations until
completed.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.05 BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street any place other than at a designated bus stand or bus terminal.
   (B)   The driver of a bus shall not stop the vehicle upon any street at any
place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers other than at a
designated bus stop, bus stand, passenger loading zone or bus terminal, except
in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The driver of a bus shall enter a bus stop or passenger loading zone
on a public street in a manner that the bus, when stopped to load or unload
passengers, shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the bus not
further than 18 inches from the curb, and the bus approximately parallel to the
curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.06 PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   The owner and operator, as qualified herein, of any motor vehicle
displaying on its windshield an identification card declaring the owner and
operator thereof to be a disabled person, which card has been issued by the
village, any municipality or township or the state, or a motor vehicle bearing
registration plates issued to a physically disabled person or disabled American
service veteran pursuant to the applicable provisions of the State Vehicle
Code, as amended, is exempt from any ordinance of the village or statute of the
state imposing parking time restrictions within commercial, business and zoning
districts, as defined by Chapter 159 of this code; however, the owner, operator
and vehicle are subject to all ordinances, statutes and laws prohibiting:
      (1)   Parking in a "no stopping" zone;
      (2)   Parking in a "no standing" zone;
      (3)   Parking in front of or near fire hydrants, driveways, public
building entrances and exits, bus stops and loading areas; and
      (4)   Parking in a place where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic
hazard.
   (B)   At all times, notwithstanding any provision herein, any vehicle parked
pursuant to this section must be moved upon request by a village police
officer.
   (C)   The parking privilege provided by this section is limited to the
person to whom the described identification card or special registration
plates, or both, are issued and to licensed operators acting under the express
direction and in the presence of the disabled person.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7) (Ord. 781, passed 12-6-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.07 MOVING PARKED VEHICLES.
   No person, other than a police officer, shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his or her control into any area where stopping, standing or parking is
prohibited or away from a curb or edge of the roadway a distance as is unlawful
or start or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle or shift, change
or move the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other mechanism of a
parked motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the
owner or driver thereof, or attempt to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 78: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed restrictions
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
SCHEDULE I. SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or public highway in
the village at a speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper with
regard to traffic conditions and the use of the way or which endangers the
safety of any person or property.
   (B)   The Village Board may from time to time establish speed limits
applicable to particular streets or portions of streets. It shall be the duty
of the Superintendent of Streets to install and maintain appropriate signs,
signals or markings on the streets or portions of streets, giving notice of the
allowable speed, and it shall be a misdemeanor to exceed the maximum speed so
indicated. The maximum speed limits upon the following named streets within the
village shall be as follows:
      (1)   Cicero Avenue (State Route "50"), from Cal-Sag Road to 143rd
Street: 35 mph;
      (2)   Pulaski Avenue: 40 mph;
      (3)   Cal-Sag Road, from 127th Street to 135th Street: 35 mph;
      (4)   Turnpike Road, east of the centerline of Cicero Avenue: 35 mph;
      (5)   Turnpike Road, west of the centerline of Cicero Avenue: 40 mph;
      (6)   Central Avenue: 35 mph;
      (7)   Laramie Avenue: 20 mph;
      (8)   135th Street, west of the centerline of Cicero Avenue: 35 mph;
      (9)   135th Street, east of the centerline of Cicero Avenue and west of
the centerline of Keeler Avenue: 40 mph;
      (10)   135th Street, east of the centerline of Keeler Avenue: 35 mph;
      (11)   127th Street: 35 mph; and
      (12)   Long Avenue and all other streets and avenues within the village
not stated in divisions (B)(1) through (11) directly above: 20 mph.
   (C)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease
speed:
      (1)   When approaching a hill crest;
      (2)   When traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway; or
      (3)   When special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians, other
traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on,
or entering, the highway and as may be necessary in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (D)   This schedule shall not affect the speed limit on other streets in the
village as established prior to the date hereof by ordinance.
   (E)   In every charge of violation of this section by failure to observe an
applicable speed limit, the complaint and the summons or notice to appear shall
specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven and the
speed limit which is applicable at the place of the alleged violation.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this schedule shall be fined
not more than $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) (Ord. 1540, passed 9-18-1997)
CHAPTER 79: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations, see
Ch. 80
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to stop, stand or park a vehicle along and
upon the following streets within the village, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic-control device or for the loading or unloading of passengers
for a period not longer than three minutes or for the loading or unloading of
property for a period not longer than 15 minutes:
         (a)   Kostner Avenue, either side;
         (b)   Pulaski Avenue, either side;
         (c)   135th Street, either side; and
         (d)   139 Street, either side.
      (2)   Any person violating these provisions shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each
and every day during or on which a violation continues to exist.
   (B)   (1)   Parking shall be prohibited on the following streets within the
village: 135th Street at Long Avenue.
      (2)   The Village Board will prohibit future parking at the locations on
or immediately adjacent to 135th Street and Long Avenue as may be determined
and directed by the state to be necessary to ensure the free flow of traffic
and safety to the motoring public.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5) (Ord. 723, passed 4-5-1979; Ord. 770, passed 10-4-1979;
Ord. 798, passed 6-5-1980; Ord. 903, passed 5-5-1983; Ord. 1056, passed 12-3-
1987) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 80: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VEHICULAR REGULATION VIOLATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
80.01   Purpose
   
80.02   Adoption
   
80.03   Code
   
80.04   Administrative composition
   
80.05   Procedure
   
80.06   Administrative hearings
   
80.07   Additional notices
   
80.08   Final determination of liability
   
80.09   Administrative review
   
80.10   Nonresident procedures
   
80.11   Schedule of fines and penalties
   
80.12   Certified report and contesting certified report
   
80.13   Immobilization/towing and impoundment
   
80.14   Judicial review
   
80.15   Debt to village
   
80.16   Judgment
   
80.17   Immobilization of vehicles; eligibility
   
80.18   Impact on other administrative adjudication systems
   
80.19   Effective date
Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System
   
80.40   Automated enforcement authorized
   
80.41   Violation
   
80.42   Detection
   
80.43   Signage
   
80.44   Notice of violation
   
80.45   Penalty; final determination of violation liability
   
80.46   Defenses
   
80.47   Administrative adjudication
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 80.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for the fair and
efficient enforcement of municipal regulations through the administrative
adjudication of violations of village ordinances regulating the standing and
parking of vehicles, the condition and use of vehicle equipment and the display
of vehicle licenses or stickers within the village borders, and establishing a
schedule of uniform fines and penalties and authority and procedures for
collection of unpaid fines and penalties.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, VEHICLE COMPLIANCE VIOLATION means the
violation of any regulation governing the condition or use of equipment on a
vehicle or governs the display of village licenses or stickers.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.02 ADOPTION.
   To accomplish the foregoing purpose, § 11-208.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-208.3 et seq.) is hereby adopted in its current
form and as it may be amended from time to time for adjudication of vehicular
regulation violations to the extent permitted by the Illinois constitution.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.03 CODE.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, CODE means
any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code (adopted by the village under Title
VII of the Code) or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing
the movement of vehicles and except for a reportable offense under § 6-204 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-204).
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.04 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   The system of administrative adjudication of the foregoing ordinance
violations shall provide for a Hearing Officer, Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator, System Coordinator and hearing room personnel (deputy), with the
power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set forth:
   (A)   Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer is hereby authorized and directed
to:
      (1)   Preside over administrative hearings, as the adjudicator;
      (2)   Administer oaths;
      (3)   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and
production of relevant papers or documentation;
      (4)   Assess fines and penalties for any ordinance violation;
      (5)   Make final determination of:
         (a)   Vehicular standing and/or parking regulation violations
liability, vehicle compliance violations, automated traffic law violations,
vehicle sticker liability or any other ordinance violation authorized to be
adjudicated pursuant to this chapter.
         (b)   Validity of notice of impending impoundment.
         (c)   Validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension.
      (6)   Provide for the accurate recordation of all administrative
adjudication hearings.
   (B)   Ordinance Enforcement Administrator. For purposes of this chapter, the
Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall have all of the powers granted by
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(1) and is hereby authorized and directed to:
      (1)   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing, parking and compliance regulation violations and automated
traffic law violations;
      (2)   Adopt, distribute and process parking and compliance violation
notices, and automated traffic law violation notices, and other notices as may
be required under this chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry out
the purpose of this chapter;
      (3)   Collect money paid as fines and/or penalties for violations of
parking and compliance ordinances and automated traffic law violations;
      (4)   Conduct hearings, as a Hearing Officer, with the same power and
authority as is hereinafter set forth during the absence of the appointed
Hearing Officer;
      (5)   Certify copies of final determinations of standing and/or parking
regulation violation liability, vehicle compliance violation, automated traffic
law violation, vehicle sticker violation or any other ordinance violation
adjudicated pursuant to this chapter, and any factual reports verifying the
final determination of any violation liability which was issued in accordance
with this chapter or the laws of the state, including ILCS Ch, 625, Act 5, §
11-208.3 as from time to time amended;
      (6)   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter as hereinafter set forth, and those of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5;
      (7)   Review any final determination of vehicular standing and/or parking
regulation violation liability, vehicle compliance violation liability,
automated traffic law violation liability, validity of notices of impending
impoundment or validity of notice of impending driver’s license suspension or
validity of notices of automated traffic law violations, in an administrative
review capacity in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (8)   Review any final determination of any vehicle sticker violation or
any other ordinance violation adjudication pursuant to this chapter;
      (9)   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created;
      (10)   Collect unpaid fines and penalties by filing complaints in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or selecting or appointing an individual or agency
to act on behalf of the village in filing complaints seeking judgments for
unpaid fines or penalties and pursuit of all post judgment remedies available
by current law;
      (11)   Select or appoint one or more individuals, agencies or firms to
tow and impound vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this chapter as
hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   System Coordinator. The System Coordinator is hereby authorized and
directed to operate and maintain the computer programs for the administrative
adjudication system created, on a day-to-day basis, including but not limited
to:
      (1)   Input of violation notice information;
      (2)   Establishing court dates and notice dates;
      (3)   Record fine and penalty assessment and payments;
      (4)   Issue payment receipts;
      (5)   Issue succeeding notice of hearing dates and/or final determination
of liability, issue notice of impending impoundment, issue notice of impending
driver's license suspension, as directed by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      (6)   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearance at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   (D)   Hearing room personnel. Hearing room personnel shall be qualified off-
duty, full-time, part-time or auxiliary police officers who are authorized and
directed to:
      (1)   Maintain hearing room decorum.
      (2)   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies of
the circuit court.
      (3)   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the Hearing Officer or Ordinance Enforcement Administrator.
   (E)   Appointments. The Mayor or his or her designee is hereby authorized,
with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees, to appoint the
foregoing positions. One person may hold and fulfill the requirements of one or
more of the above stated positions.
   (F)   Compensation. Compensation for each of the above stated positions
shall be as approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 was repealed by P.A. 101-652, effective 7-1-
21.
§ 80.05 PROCEDURE.
   The system of administrative adjudication of vehicle standing or parking
regulation, vehicle compliance violation, vehicle sticker violation or any
other ordinance violation authorized to be adjudicated pursuant to this chapter
shall be in accordance with the following procedures:
   (A)   Violation notice. Violation notice of vehicular standing or parking
regulation, vehicle compliance violation or vehicle sticker violation or other
ordinance violation shall be issued by the persons authorized and shall contain
information and shall be served, and have evidentiary admissibility as is set
forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Authorization. All full-time, part-time and auxiliary police officers
as well as other specifically appointed individuals shall have the authority to
issue violation notices.
   (C)   Violation detection. Any individual authorized pursuant to this
chapter to issue violation notices and who detects an ordinance violation
authorized to be adjudicated under this chapter or a violation of any section
of any village ordinance restricting, regulating or prohibiting the standing or
parking of motor vehicles, the vehicle compliance requirements or the vehicle
sticker requirements shall issue a notice of violation thereof and shall make
service thereof as is set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Contents of violation notice. The vehicular standing, parking and
compliance regulation "violation notice" shall contain, but shall not be
limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance);
      (2)   The particular vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation
violated;
      (3)   Vehicle make and state registration number;
      (4)   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment;
      (5)   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice;
      (6)   A section entitled "request for hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the registered owner or lessee may appear at the initial
administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on the
date and at the time and place as specified in the violation notice by:
         (a)   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified "request for hearing;"
         (b)   Placing his or her name and current address in the place
provided;
         (c)   Signing his or her name in the appropriate indicated place;
         (d)   Filing the violation notice, with the request for hearing
portion fully completed, with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator
postmarked by the twenty-fifth of the month, if the violation notice was issued
between the first through the fifteenth day of the month, or postmarked by the
tenth of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the sixteenth
and the end of the prior month. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt
by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator.
      (7)   The date, time and place of an administrative hearing at which the
violation may be contested on its merits;
      (8)   That payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty
shall operate as a final disposition of the violation;
      (9)   A section entitled "nonresident request for hearing -
nonappearance," which clearly sets forth that a nonresident registered owner or
lessee may appear at the initial administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the violation notice without personally appearing by:
         (a)   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified "nonresident request for hearing - nonappearance;"
         (b)   Placing his or her name and current address in the place
provided;
         (c)   Signing his or her name in the appropriate indicated place;
         (d)   Filing the violation notice with the "nonresident request for
hearing" portion fully completed, with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator
postmarked by the twenty-fifth of the month, if the violation notice was issued
between the first through the fifteenth day of the month, or postmarked by the
tenth of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the sixteenth
and the end of the prior month. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt
by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator;
         (e)   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the twenty-fifth of the month, if the
violation notice was issued between the first through the fifteenth day of the
month, or postmarked by the tenth of the month, if the violation notice was
issued between the sixteenth and the end of the prior month. The request shall
be deemed filed, if postmarked by the due dates herein specified;
         (f)   A clearly marked statement that execution of the nonresident
request for hearing is a waiver of the nonresident's right to a personal
appearance and that the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized
statement of facts submitted by the nonresident and the facts contained in the
violation(s) notice(s).
   (E)   Service of violation notice. Service of the violation(s) notice(s)
shall be made by the person issuing the notice by:
         (a)   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an
unlawfully standing or parked vehicle; or
         (b)   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee
of the vehicle, if present.
   (F)   Certification of facts. The correctness of facts contained in the
vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s)
shall be certified by the person issuing the notice by:
         (a)   Signing his or her name to the notice(s) at the time of service;
or
         (b)   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by
signing a single certificate to be kept by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator, attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the
device while under his or her control.
   (G)   Violation notice retained. The original or a facsimile of the
violations notice(s) shall be retained by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary course of business.
   (H)   Prima facie evidence of correctness. Any violation(s) notice(s)
issued, signed and served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the notice,
shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
   (I)   Admissibility in legal proceedings. Violation(s) notice(s) or a copy
(s) shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceeding.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.06 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   An administrative hearing to adjudicate any alleged ordinance
violation on its merits, or to contest the validity of a notice of impending
impoundment or the validity of a notice of impending driver's license
suspension shall be:
      (1)   Granted to the registered owner or operator of the cited vehicle,
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3, or the lessee of the cited
vehicle, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1306, incorporated herein by
reference;
      (2)   At the date, time and place as is set forth in the violation notice
issued and served, the second notice issued in accordance with this chapter or
as is set by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator and served upon the
registered owner, operator or lessee for hearings contesting the validity of
notices of impending impoundment or driver's license suspension;
      (3)   Be recorded;
      (4)   Culminate in a determination of liability or non-liability made by
the Hearing Officer, who shall consider facts and/or testimony without the
application of the formal or technical rules of evidence. The Hearing Officer
shall, upon a determination of liability, assess fines and penalties in
accordance with §
80.11 below.
   (B)   Persons appearing to contest the alleged violation on its merits may
be represented by counsel at their own expense.
   (C)   The final determination of any matter which may be decided by the
Hearing Officer may be reviewed as is set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.07 ADDITIONAL NOTICES.
   (A)   Upon failure of the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle to
appear at the administrative hearing indicated in the vehicular standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s), or upon final
determination of violation liability, the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator
shall send or cause to be sent additional notices which shall be:
      (1)   Sent to the registered owner of the cited vehicle at the address as
is recorded with the Secretary of State; or
      (2)   Sent to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the address last known
to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease; and
      (3)   Sent by first class mail, postage prepaid.
   (B)   Service of additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall be
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   (C)   The additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall be in the
following sequence and contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   Upon the failure of the registered owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle to appear at the hearing set forth in the vehicular standing, parking
or compliance regulation violation(s), notice(s), additional notice(s) shall be
sent, as above set forth, and shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following information:
         (a)   Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s);
         (b)   Particular standing, parking or compliance regulation violated;
         (c)   Vehicle make and state registration;
         (d)   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment;
         (e)   Notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current
status, other than paid in full;
         (f)   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits;
         (g)   Statement that failure to either pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of vehicle
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability for the
cited vehicle violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated;
         (h)   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation(s) liability for the
failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, available
administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty
will constitute a debt due and owing the village.
      (2)   A notice of final determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability shall be sent following an
appearance by the violator and a determination of liability or the failure to
appear by the violator by the third and final hearing date upon conclusion of
any administrative and/or judicial review, as is hereinafter set forth, and the
notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information and
warnings:
         (a)   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a
debt due and owing the village;
         (b)   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the village within the time specified may result in the village's filing
a complaint in the Circuit Court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a
judgment in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(f), incorporated
herein by reference.
         (c)   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended
for failure to pay fines or penalties for ten or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5, incorporated herein by
reference;
         (d)   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located
within the Village may be impounded for failure to pay fines or penalties for
ten or more vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violation(s).
      (3)   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license
shall be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine
or penalty that remains due and owing on ten or more vehicular standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation(s):
         (a)   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or
penalty owing within 45 days of the date of the notice will result in the
village's notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for
initiation of suspension proceedings under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5,
incorporated herein by reference;
         (b)   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be
sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
Secretary of State.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 was repealed by P.A. 101-652, effective 7-1-
21.
§ 80.08 FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY.
   A final determination of vehicular standing, parking compliance regulation
violation(s) liability shall:
   (A)   Occur following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty
after the Hearing Officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability and the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth;
or
   (B)   Where a person fails to appear at a prior hearing or by the third and
final administrative hearing provided to contest the alleged violation(s) on
the date and at the time and place specified in a prior served or mailed
notice, the Hearing Officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability shall become final:
      (1)   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination;
or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of the period for filing petition without a
filing having been made.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.09 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   A petition to set aside a determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability may be filed by a person owing an
unpaid fine or penalty in the manner and subject to the restrictions and
grounds hereinafter set forth:
   (A)   A written petition to set aside a determination of liability must be
filed in the office of the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator within, but not
later than, 14 days from the date the determination of liability is made;
   (B)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall act upon the petitions
timely filed and render a decision thereon within 14 days of the date filed;
   (C)   The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
      (1)   The person against whom the determination of liability is made was
not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date the vehicular
standing, parking or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s) was issued.
The person's having paid the fine or penalty prior to the determination of
liability for the violations in question.
      (2)   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   (D)   Should the determination of liability be set aside, the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator shall:
      (1)   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, that
the determination of liability has been set aside;
      (2)   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, of a
date, time and place for a hearing on the merits of the violation for which
determination of liability has been set aside.
   (E)   Notice of setting aside of the determination of liability and the
notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address set forth on the petition to set aside the determination of liability.
   (F)   Service of the notice(s) shall be complete on the date the notice(s)
is deposited in the United States mail
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.10 NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nonresidents of this Village who have been served vehicular standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s), in accordance with
this chapter, may contest the alleged violation on its merits, as could a
resident, or may contest the validity without personally appearing at an
administrative hearing by:
      (1)   Completing, in full, the "nonresident request for hearing" section
of the violation notice, served upon him or her pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Signing the nonresident request for hearing in the space specified
in the violation notice and acknowledging that his or her personal appearance
is waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the notarized statement
filed by him or her and the facts contained in the violation notice;
      (3)   Filing the violation notice with the "request for hearing" section
fully completed with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the
twenty-fifth of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the first
through the fifteenth day of the month, or postmarked by the tenth of the
month, if the violation notice was issued between the sixteenth and the end of
the prior month. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
Ordinance Enforcement Administrator;
      (4)   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the twenty-fifth of the month, if the
violation notice was issued between the first through the fifteenth day of the
month, or postmarked by the tenth of the month, if the violation notice was
issued between the sixteenth and the end of the prior month. The request shall
be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator. The
acceptance of a "nonresident request for hearing" after the due date or with
cause, at the discretion of the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator, be
accepted for hearing consideration and decision.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts
set forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident as is
contained in the violation notice.
   (C)   Notice of the determination of the Hearing Officer shall be served
upon the non-resident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted.
   (D)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail.
   (E)   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to
nonresidents of this village.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.11 SCHEDULE OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   The fines and penalties which shall be imposed pursuant to Illinois statute
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3 shall be as follows:
   (A)   For violation of sections under Title VII, any compliance violation or
violation of any village ordinance regulating, restricting or prohibiting the
standing or parking of motor vehicles along the streets, byways, alleyways,
regulated parking lots or such other locations as may be controlled by off-
street parking agreements, located within the geographical boundaries of this
village, other than for handicapped parking, the fine shall be:
      (1)   From the date the citation is issued up to and including the first
hearing date $75.
      (2)   Upon failure to pay the fine amount by the date of the first
hearing date up to the second hearing date, $150.
      (3)   Upon failure to pay the fine amount by the date of the second
hearing date up to the third hearing date, $200.
      (4)   Upon failure to pay the fine amount by the date of the third
hearing date, $250.
   (B)   For violation of any village ordinance regulating, restricting or
prohibiting the standing or parking of motor vehicles along the streets,
byways, alleyways, regulated parking lots or other locations as may be
controlled by off-street parking agreements, located within the geographical
boundaries of this village for areas specifically designated for handicapped
parking, the fine shall be:
      (1)   From the date the citation is issued up to and including the first
hearing date $75.
      (2)   Upon failure to pay the fine amount by the date of the first
hearing date up to the second hearing date, $150.
      (3)   Upon failure to pay the fine amount by the date of the second
hearing date up to the third hearing date, $200.
      (4)   Upon failure to pay the fine amount by the date of the third
hearing date, $250.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.12 CERTIFIED REPORT AND CONTESTING CERTIFIED REPORT.
   (A)   Upon a failure to pay fines and penalties deemed due and owing the
village after the exhaustion of administrative procedures set forth herein for
ten or more vehicular parking regulation violation(s), the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator shall make a certified report to the Secretary of
State stating that the owner of a registered vehicle has failed to pay any fine
or penalty due and owing the village as a result of ten or more violations of
municipal vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulations and thereby
cause the suspension of that person's driver's license.
   (B)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall take no further action
unless and until the fines and penalties due and owing the village are paid or
upon determination that the inclusion of the person's name on the certified
report was in error. At the time, the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall
submit to the Secretary of State a notification which shall result in the
halting of a driver's license suspension proceedings. The person named therein
shall receive a certified copy of such notification upon request and at no
charge.
   (C)   Persons may challenge the accuracy of the certified report by
completing a form provided by the office of the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator. The form shall specify the grounds on which the challenge is
based. Grounds for challenge shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   The person was neither the owner nor the lessee of the vehicle(s)
receiving ten or more violation notices on the date or dates the notices were
issued; or
      (2)   The person has paid the fine and/or penalty for the ten or more
violations indicated on the certified report.
   (D)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall render a determination
within 14 business days of receipt of the objection form and shall notify the
objector of the determination.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.13 IMMOBILIZATION/TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Conditions enumerated. Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has
been determined to be liable for ten or more vehicular standing, parking or
compliance regulation violation(s), for which the fines or penalties assessed
remain unpaid, may be immobilized or towed and impounded if:
      (1)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator has determined that a
person has been determined to be liable for ten or more vehicular standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation(s), the fines or penalties for which
remain unpaid.
      (2)   The person determined to be liable for ten or more violations is
the registered Owner of a motor vehicle located within the village geographical
boundaries.
      (3)   A pre-towing notice has been sent to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle located within the geographical boundaries of the village which
contains, but shall not be limited to the following:
         (a)   That a final determination has been made on ten or more
vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violation(s), the fines
and penalties for which remain unpaid.
         (b)   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            1.   The vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation
violation notice number.
            2.   Date of issuance.
            3.   Total amount of fine(s) and penalty(s) assessed.
         (c)   That the motor vehicle(s) owned by the person and located within
the village is subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the
fines and penalties are not paid within 14 days of the date of the notice.
         (d)   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the notice
by fully completing and signing the request for hearing portion of one notice
and by filing the request for hearing with the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator within, but not later than, 14 days of the date of the notice.
The request for hearing shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator.
      (4)   The motor vehicle(s) of the registered owner to whom notice is sent
has failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the
notice, and no timely request for hearing has been filed with the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator to contest the validity of the notice.
      (5)   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity
of the notice of impending immobilization or towing and impoundment, the
Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to
contest the validity of the notice, by disproving liability for the unpaid
final determinations of parking, standing or compliance violation liability
listed on the notice, on the next available hearing date, but in no case shall
the hearing be scheduled later than 60 days after the request for hearing is
filed.
         (a)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall serve notice of
the hearing date upon the registered owner.
         (b)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         (c)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
   (B)   Right to a hearing. The registered owner of a vehicle(s) immobilized
or towed and impounded under this chapter, shall have the right to a prompt
administrative hearing without the requirement of payment of outstanding fines
and penalties for which final determination has been made.
      (1)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall serve a post-towing
notice upon the registered owner of a vehicle immobilized or towed and
impounded under this chapter which notice shall contain, but not be limited to,
the following information:
         (a)   Date of immobilization or towing and date of impoundment.
         (b)   Location of vehicle.
         (c)   That the vehicle was immobilized under this section of this
chapter for nonpayment of fines or penalties assessed for the violation of ten
or more violations of vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation(s)
for which the registered owner has been determined liable and notified of
impending immobilization or towing and impoundment.
         (d)   Date of notice of impending immobilization or towing and
impoundment.
         (e)   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment by completing and signing the request
for hearing portion of the notice and filing the request for hearing with the
Ordinance Enforcement Administrator within, but not later than, 14 days of the
date of the notice which shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next available hearing
date or if sooner scheduled by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator for good
cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than 60 days
after the request for hearing is filed.
         (a)   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall serve notice of
the hearing date upon the registered owner.
         (b)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         (c)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
      (3)   An order entered after the hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment is a final administrative decision
within the meaning of ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., incorporated
herein by reference.
   (C)   Release of impounded vehicle. A vehicle impounded pursuant to this
chapter shall be released to the registered owner thereof, or his or her agent,
upon payment of the fines and penalties due and owing the village as specified
in the notice sent in accordance herewith and the payment of towing charges and
accrued daily impound charges or upon order of the Hearing Officer following
hearing contesting the validity of the impoundment.
   (D)   Retain services of towing agency. The Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator shall appoint or retain the services of an individual agency or
company to tow and impound vehicles in accordance herewith, provided:
      (1)   The individual, agency or company is fully licensed according to
local and state law;
      (2)   The individual, agency or company is fully insured;
      (3)   The individual, agency or company has available a secured impound
area within which to retain vehicles impounded hereunder. For the purpose of
this chapter, a secured-area shall mean an area bounded by a fence, chain link
or otherwise, of a sufficient height and with locking gates so as to minimize
or prevent unauthorized entry into the impounded vehicles;
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.14 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review of final determinations of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance regulation violation(s) and final administrative decisions issued
after hearing(s) regarding vehicle immobilization or towing and impoundment
made under this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the
Administrative Review Law as is set forth in ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et
seq., incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.15 DEBT TO VILLAGE.
   Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or any penalty assessed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, administrative remedies created under this
chapter and the conclusion of any judicial review procedures shall be a debt
due and owing the village and, as such, may be collected in accordance with the
applicable law. Payment in full of any fine or penalty resulting from a
standing, parking violation shall constitute a final disposition of that
violation.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.16 JUDGMENT.
   (A)    The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall, following the
expiration of the period within which administrative or judicial review may be
sought for a final determination of violation, take all necessary action(s),
execute all required documents and appoint or retain any individual or agency
deemed appropriate to obtain a judgment against and collect monies from the
person(s) who has been assessed fines or penalties which remain unpaid and have
become a debt due and owing the village in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3 by:
      (1)   Filing a complaint in the Circuit Court praying for the entry of a
judgment against the person for whom a final determination of standing, parking
or compliance regulation violation(s) liability has been made.
      (2)   The complaint filed by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator or
individual or agency on behalf of the village seeking entry of a judgment
against an individual for unpaid fines and/or penalties pursuant to a final
determination of standing, parking or compliance regulation violations shall
have appended:
         (a)   A certified copy of the final determination of the standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation(s).
         (b)   A certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
final determination of standing, parking or compliance regulation violation(s)
was issued in accordance with this chapter and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3.
      (3)   Nothing shall prevent the village from consolidating multiple final
determinations of standing, parking or compliance regulation violation(s)
liability in an action in the Circuit Court against an individual.
      (4)   Pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money
judgments.
   (B)   Service of summons and a copy of the complaint may be served upon the
person against whom a judgment is sought under the provisions of this chapter
by any method provided under ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203, incorporated by
reference, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided the total
amount of fines and penalties for final determination of standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) does not exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.17 IMMOBILIZATION OF VEHICLES; ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be eligible for immobilization under the following
criteria:
      (1)   The registered owner of the motor vehicle has accumulated ten
complaints or more issued by the Village Police Department which are not
adjudicated, for which no payment has been made, or for which no appearance has
been filed within the time specified by the parking violation complaints; and
      (2)   The registered owner of the motor vehicle must have received notice
of eligibility for immobilization under the procedures listed herein.
   (B)   Written notice of eligibility for immobilization shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the registered owner of the motor vehicle, at the address to which
the motor vehicle is registered, at least 21 days prior to placing the
registration plate number on the eligibility list. Notice shall be sent as
follows:
      (1)   The address of the registered owner shall be determined from the
records of the Illinois Secretary of State, or in the ease of a vehicle bearing
a registration number of a state other than Illinois, from the records of that
state's registry of motor vehicles;
      (2)   The notice shall state the name and address of the registered
owner, the state registration number of the motor vehicle, the nature of the
ordinances violated and the serial numbers and issue dates of the complaints
referred to herein; and
      (3)   The notice shall advise that a person may challenge the validity of
the notice of eligibility for immobilization as set forth herein.
   (C)   A challenge of the validity of the notice of eligibility for
immobilization must be made in person to the Chief of Police or his or her
designee, only on grounds which would conclusively disprove liability, such as:
      (1)   The person was not the owner or lessee of the motor vehicle on the
date or dates the complaints were issued;
      (2)   The fines or penalties for the violations cited were paid; or
      (3)   The registered owner has not accumulated ten or more parking
violation complaints which are unpaid, not adjudicated, or for which no
appearance has been filed.
   (D)   Should no determination be made that eligibility of the motor vehicle
for immobilization be invalid within the 21-day period, the state registration
number of said vehicle shall be placed on the immobilization list and
immobilization shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   A notice shall be placed in a conspicuous place on motor vehicle
warning that any attempt to move the vehicle while the immobilization device is
attached may result in damage to the vehicle;
      (2)   The notice shall set forth the following procedures for release of
the immobilization device; the owner of the immobilized vehicle, or another
authorized person, may within 24 hours:
         (a)   Pay all fees for immobilization and penalties due on the
outstanding complaints listed in the notice of eligibility for immobilization,
or may pay a deposit prior to a hearing as provided herein;
         (b)   Present copies of appearances filed with the clerk of the
Circuit Court of Cook County on all outstanding complaints specified in the
notice of eligibility; or
         (c)   Deposit collateral in the amount of the number of outstanding
complaints listed in the notice of eligibility for immobilization times $5 but
not to exceed $500 and execute an agreement to present copies of appearances
filed with the clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County on all outstanding
complaints specified in the notice of eligibility for immobilization within 21
days from the date of the agreement. The collateral shall be returned upon
receipt of copies of the appearances, but shall be forfeited lithe owner does
not present the copies and the forfeited collateral may not be used to satisfy
any unpaid fees or penalties. Upon forfeiture of collateral, the motor vehicle
involved shall again be subject to immediate immobilization and no further
deposit of collateral as described in this subdivision shall again be allowed
as a method of release; and
      (3)   The notice shall warn the owner that the immobilized vehicle will
be towed and impounded if release is not obtained hereunder within 24 hours
after the vehicle has been immobilized and that the costs of immobilization,
towing and impoundment must be paid in addition to the penalties due on the
outstanding complaints listed on the notice of eligibility for impoundment, or
the deposit for a hearing as provided herein.
   (E)   Within 15 days after a vehicle has been towed and impounded, notice of
impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, and by
first class mail, postage prepaid to the registered owner of the motor vehicle
at the address to which the motor vehicle is registered. The notice shall state
that the owner has a right to a hearing as specified herein, and that if
release is not obtained under the procedures herein within 30 days the vehicle
will be considered an abandoned vehicle as provided in this chapter and subject
to disposal as provided.
   (F)   The fee for immobilization shall be $75 and the fee for towing shall
be as invoiced; provided, however, that no fees shall be assessed for any
immobilization or tow which has been determined to be in error pursuant to a
hearing which shall be held under the following procedure:
      (1)   A deposit of $25 on the immobilization fee and $25 on the towing
fee must be submitted within 21 days of the receipt of a notice pursuant
hereto, or 21 days after immobilization, whichever is later, with a written
demand to the Chief of Police for a hearing on whether the motor vehicle was
properly included on the immobilization list;
      (2)   The hearing shall be held before the Village's Hearing Officer
within 48 hours of the receipt of the demand and the deposit required, unless
an extension of time is agreed to by the parties;
      (3)   Failure to demand or to attend a scheduled hearing shall be deemed
a waiver of the right to a hearing. In the event of a failure to attend the
scheduled hearing the deposit shall be forfeited and applied to towing or
immobilization fees specified herein; and
      (4)   A hearing as provided in this subsection shall not determine the
validity of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or parking violation issued
relative to the immobilized vehicle but only shall determine the validity of
assessment of the fees for immobilization and/or towing.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.18 IMPACT ON OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEMS.
   This chapter shall not affect the validity of systems of administrative
adjudication authorized by state law and adopted by the village.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 80.19 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective ten days after publication.
(Ord. 2035, passed 4-21-2011)
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
§ 80.40 AUTOMATED ENFORCEMENT AUTHORIZED.
   This subchapter provides for an automated traffic law enforcement system,
which detects motor vehicles which fail to abide by traffic-control signals at
intersections under penalty of a fine, and a system of administrative
adjudication by which such detected infractions shall be resolved.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 80.41 VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for anyone to operate a vehicle
in disregard of a traffic control device or to turn right on a red light where
it is posted “NO TURN ON RED.”
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 80.42 DETECTION.
   As used in this title, AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM means a
device within the village with one or more motor vehicle sensors working in
conjunction with a red light signal to produce recorded images of motor
vehicles entering an intersection against a steady or flashing red signal
indication in violation of § 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-306). The automated traffic law enforcement system shall not be
used to enforce speed limit regulations. The recorded images produced by the
automated traffic law enforcement system, which consist of either two or more
photographs or two or more electronic images of a video recording showing the
motor vehicle, shall capture and display images of the vehicle allegedly
violating traffic- control signals, together with the license plate on such
vehicle, and shall also show the time, date and location of the violation.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 80.43 SIGNAGE.
   Any intersection equipped with an automated traffic law enforcement system
must have a sign posted which is visible to approaching traffic indicating that
the intersection is being monitored by an automated traffic law enforcement
system.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 80.44 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in spite of a steady or flashing red signal
indicating a violation of § 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-306), this shall be deemed a non-criminal violation for which a
civil penalty of $100 shall be assessed and for which no points shall be
assigned by the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code Point System for License Suspension
to the owner or driver of the vehicle. The village shall issue a written notice
of the violation to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall
be mailed by first class mail within 30 days after the Illinois Secretary of
State notifies the village of the identity of the registered owner or lessee of
the vehicle, and in no event later than 90 days following the violation. Each
notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law violation (“notice
of violation”) shall require a review of the associated recorded image by an
officer or other employee or agent of the Village Police Department empowered
under this chapter to determine whether a red light offense has occurred or
whether one of the defenses enumerated below in §
80.46 is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon determination that the
recorded image captures a violation of one of the foregoing provisions and that
no defense applies, the notice of violation shall be served upon the registered
vehicle owner in the manner provided for in §
80.47(A). The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall retain a copy of all
violation notices, recorded images and other correspondence mailed to the
alleged violator. Each notice of violation, which shall constitute evidence of
the facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging
a violation of the above-noted statutory and local provisions and shall
establish prima facie evidence of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis
of the defenses established in §
80.46 below, shall include the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database;
      (2)   The registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the
violation;
      (3)   The violation charged, with specific reference to that section of
the Code of Crestwood allegedly violated;
      (4)   The location where the violation occurred;
      (5)   The date and time of the violation;
      (6)   A copy of the recorded images;
      (7)   The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which the
civil penalty should be paid if liability for the violation is not going to be
contested;
      (8)   A statement that the recorded images are evidence of a violation of
a red light signal;
      (9)   A warning that failure to either pay the civil penalty or to
contest liability within 30 days of the mailing of the notice of violation in
writing or by attending the administrative hearing is an admission of liability
and may result in a suspension of the driving privileges of the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle in addition to the specified penalties for
failing to appear at the hearing or pay the fine in advance of the hearing;
      (10)   The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which
the charge may be contested on its merits, a date that shall be no less than 15
days from the mailing or other service of the first notice of violation;
      (11)   A statement that payment of the indicated fine and of any
applicable penally for late payment shall constitute a final disposition of the
violation; and
      (12)   The signature of the party reviewing the recorded images and
confirming that a violation took place.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 80.45 PENALTY; FINAL DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION LIABILITY.
   (A)   If the civil penalty of $100 referred to in §
80.44 herein is not timely paid or the notice of violation referred to in §
80.44 is not contested timely, a $100 penalty will be assessed in addition to
the original $100 fine by way of “final determination of violation liability.”
   (B)   The village, through its Treasurer, Village Clerk, Police Department,
Law Department, Administrative Adjudication Program, and/or any other
designated agent of the village, may establish procedures for the collection of
the civil penalty imposed.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 80.46 DEFENSES.
   The following are the only defenses available for an alleged violator
contesting his or her liability for a violation, which shall be weighed by the
Hearing Officer and shall only rebut the prima facie case established by the
notice of violation insofar as one or more of the following defenses are
established by a preponderance of the evidence:
   (A)   The motor vehicle or registration plates were stolen before the
violation occurred and were not under the control of or in the possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, which may be demonstrated through the
submission of a certified copy of a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle
or registration plates filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner;
and
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection in spite of
a red light either to yield the right-of-way to an emergency vehicle or as part
of a funeral procession; and
   (C)   The license plate number or other source of identification of the
vehicle cannot be determined; and
   (D)   The operator of the vehicle received a uniform traffic citation from a
police officer at the time of the violation for the same incident as captured
by the automated traffic law enforcement system and either paid such citation
or successfully contested said citation; and
   (E)   The vehicle was leased to another and within 60 calendar days after
the citation was mailed to lessor, lessor submitted to the municipality the
correct name and address of the lessee of the vehicle identified in the notice
of violation at the time of the alleged violation, together with a copy of the
lease agreement, the lessee’s driver’s license number and any additional
information that may be needed.
   (F)   The facts alleged in the notice of violation are inconsistent or do
not support a finding that a violation occurred.
   (G)   The respondent was not the registered vehicle owner, lessee or renter
of the cited vehicle at the time of the violation.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 80.47 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION.
   (A)   Service of notice of violations. Notice of violations must be mailed
to the address of the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle as
recorded with the Secretary of State within 30 days after the Secretary of
State notifies the village of the identity of the registered vehicle owner, but
no later than 90 days after the date of the violation. If the notice of
violation is returned as undeliverable, then the notice of violation shall be
sent to the last known address recorded in a United States Post Office approved
database, which notice shall still be sent within 90 days of the violation,
   (B)   Adjudicative hearing. The hearing shall be tape recorded, and the
Hearing Officer shall conduct the hearing in accordance with his or her powers
and duties, enumerated in this chapter. Alleged violators who appear at the
administrative hearing to contest an alleged violation may be represented by
legal counsel at their own expense, however, formal rules of evidence shall not
apply to the administrative hearing. The Hearing Officer shall enter either a
default judgment or a determination of liability or non-liability in accordance
with consideration of the facts and testimony, if any, and shall constitute a
final determination of liability from which an appeal may be taken.
   (C)   Collection of fines and penalties. Nothing contained in this chapter
shall prevent the village from pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law,
to collect fines and payment of penalties owed to the village.
   (D)   Notice of impending driver’s license suspension. This notice shall be
sent via first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address
recorded with the Secretary of State of any person liable for any fine or
penalty due and owing the village for five or more unpaid automated traffic law
violations. If such mailing is returned as undeliverable, then the village
shall send the notice to the last known address recorded in a United States
Post Office approved database. If the village subsequently makes a certified
report to the Secretary of State, the subject vehicle owner may challenge the
accuracy of the certified report in writing. To do so, the vehicle owner must
submit to the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator a written statement under
oath, together with supporting documentation, establishing one of the following
grounds for challenging the accuracy of the certified report: (1) that the
person was not the owner or lessee of the subject vehicle or vehicles receiving
five or more automated traffic law violations on the date or dates such
violation notices were issued, or (2) that the person already paid the fines or
penalties for the five or more automated traffic law violations indicated on
the certified report. Such statement and supporting documentation must be sent
to the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or hand delivered to the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator within
five days after the person receives notice from the Secretary of State that the
person’s driver’s license will be suspended at the end of a specified period of
time unless the Secretary of State is presented with a notice from the village
certifying that the fines or penalties due and owing have been paid or that the
inclusion of the person’s name on the certified report was in error.
   (E)   Procedures for non-residents. Where the registered owner or lessee of
the cited vehicle is not a resident of the village but seeks to contest the
merits of the alleged violation, such persons may contest the charges using the
same available defenses as stated above, and the same procedures — they may
attend the administrative hearing or they may submit any and all documentary
evidence no later than the hearing date referenced in the notice of liability,
together with a written statement reflecting that they are non-residents of the
village.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-8-2015; Ord. 2293, passed 4-7-2016)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
91.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
92.   PARADES AND MOTORCADES
      
93.   ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
      
94.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
95.   EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
      
96.   SMOKING
      
97.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
98.   COMBUSTIBLE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
99.   GARAGE SALES
      
100.   SPECIAL EVENTS
      
101.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
90.01   Authority
   
90.02   Supervision
   
90.03   Dedication of streets required
   
90.04   Street grade
   
90.05   Construction requirements
   
90.06   Maintenance and repairs
   
90.07   Parkways
   
90.08   Excavations and street openings
   
90.09   Barricades and lights
   
90.10   Use of public ways
   
90.11   Deposits on streets and sidewalks
   
90.12   Prohibited acts and conditions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 90.01 AUTHORITY.
   All streets, public alleys and thoroughfares shall be the property of the
village, under the control and management of the Mayor and Board of Trustees,
and no additional streets or alleys shall be created and no existing streets or
alleys shall be closed without the permission of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 90.02 SUPERVISION.
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under
the supervision of the Director of Public Works. He or she shall be charged
with the enforcement of all provisions relating to public places, except
traffic provisions, and is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of the
code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 90.03 DEDICATION OF STREETS REQUIRED.
   In accordance with the practice universally followed heretofore, when any
plat is submitted to the Board for approval or when any portion of land is to
be dedicated to the village for a public thoroughfare, the dedication or plat
shall be accompanied by an instrument conveying full title to the village,
instead of easement rights, in the portion to become a public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 90.04 STREET GRADE.
   Grade levels prevailing at the effective date hereof shall be the official
grades for all thoroughfares flanked by one or more houses; provided, however,
that, in any block where no houses are located, no grade level will be deemed
to exist. Prior to erection of any edifice in any block where no grade level is
established, the owner or contractor erecting the edifice shall make
application to the Board for the establishment of a grade level. The term GRADE
LEVEL, with regard to existing levels, shall be understood to mean the crown of
any thoroughfare currently maintained by the village, county or state.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 90.05 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any
pavement or any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way or to repair
the same without first having secured a permit therefor.
      (2)   Application for permit. Applications for the permit shall be made
to the Clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair,
the extent thereof and the person who is to do the actual construction work.
      (3)   Issuance. No permit shall be issued except on order of the Village
Board.
   (B)   Bond. Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount of $10,000, with
surety to be approved by the Board, conditioned to indemnify the village for
any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing
and/or completing the same.
   (C)   Specifications.
      (1)   Generally. All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in
conformity with specifications laid down or approved by the Village Board.
      (2)   Width of streets.
         (a)   All streets in the village shall be 66 feet wide, with the
following exceptions.
            1.   Half-section line streets shall be 80 feet wide.
            2.   Streets of different width may be permitted; provided, the
width is approved by the Plan Commission and approved by the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   The curb line for streets 66 feet wide shall be a distance of 19
feet from the middle of the street. The curb line for all other streets shall
be set by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   Authority to report defects. It shall be the duty of every officer or
employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or
any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Repairs. All public street, alley and sidewalk pavement shall be kept
in good repair. The repair work, whether done by the village or by an abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 90.07 PARKWAYS.
   (A)   Maintenance required. It shall be the duty of each person residing on
or owning property abutting on the village streets to maintain the area between
his or her lot line and the curb line and public sidewalk free from weeds,
overhanging branches of less than seven feet above the ground and other noxious
herbage or matter.
   (B)   Beautification permitted; restrictions. The village hereby grants a
revocable permission for each citizen to beautify the portion of land owned by
the village and located between his or her premises and the adjoining curb
line; providing, however, that, no encumbrance other than bushes, grass,
flowers, trees and decorative rocks shall be established thereon. Fences,
fenceposts, wires and any other type of encumbrance is strictly prohibited. The
permission shall include all other rights of possession exercisable against all
but the duly appointed or elected representatives of the village acting in
official capacity. An action for trespass may be brought by the adjoining owner
with regard to the portion of land, exclusive of the area occupied by the
public sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 EXCAVATIONS AND STREET OPENINGS.
   (A)   Excavations. It shall be unlawful to make any opening or excavation in
or tunnel under any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the
village without first securing a permit, depositing a bond and complying with
the provisions of this code pertaining to excavations and street openings.
   (B)   Street openings. It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
opening or stairway in any public street or sidewalk or alley without a permit
from the Board. All lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable
strong cover or a railing, subject to the approval of the Director of Public
Works.
   (C)   Specifications. Street openings and the replacement of pavement,
including procedures for backfilling, shall be in compliance with the
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   Barricades and lights required.
      (1)   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk
or other public place, or making an excavation in any place, shall maintain
suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the
work; the barricade shall be protected by lights at nighttime.
      (2)   Any defects in any pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any
injury and any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any
place shall guard the opening or excavation while the same remains open by
proper barricades and lights.
   (B)   Disturbing barricades and lights prohibited. It shall be unlawful to
disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or
mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 USE OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Private use. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display or sale of goods or
merchandise or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any street,
sidewalk or public place.
   (B)   Poles and wires. It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles
or wires on or over any public street, alley or other public way without having
first secured permission from the Board.
   (C)   Gas pumps. It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump
or tank in any public street, alley or sidewalk without first having obtained a
permit therefor from the Board. No permit shall be issued until the applicant
furnishes a bond or indemnity policy with corporate surety, to indemnify the
village against loss or liability, in the sum of $10,000 occasioned by the tank
or pump.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to
remain in or upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious
to person or property without an appropriate permit thereof.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which
may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or any glass or
any articles which may cause injury to any person, animal or property or to
deposit any litter thereon. Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets
preparatory to delivery or use; provided, the deposit does not reduce the
usable width of the roadway at the point to less than 18 feet; provided that,
the material, equipment or coal, other than material or equipment to be used in
actual building construction, shall not be permitted to remain on the street
for more than three hours. Any material, equipment or coal shall be guarded by
lights if the same remains upon any street after nighttime.
   (B)   Sidewalks. It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or
any glass or other articles which may cause injury to person, animals or
property. Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided that, the usable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet; and, provided that, no article shall
remain on the walk for more than one-half hour, nor shall the article remain
upon any sidewalk after sunset.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   Injury to new pavements. To knowingly walk upon or drive any vehicle
or animal upon, or injure, mark or deface any newly laid street or sidewalk
pavement;
   (B)   Obstructions and encroachments.
      (1)   Obstructions. For any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Director of Public Works;
      (2)   Encroachments. To erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property; and/or
      (3)   Drains. To obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
   (C)   Water flowing upon streets. For any person to allow any water to flow
into or upon any public thoroughfare; and/or
   (D)   Playing games.
      (1)   To play any games upon any street, alley or sidewalk where the
games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic or pedestrians; and/or
      (2)   For any person to play ball or throw any ball to and fro upon any
public thoroughfare in the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person notified by the Director of Public Works or Superintendent
of Public Works to remove the offensive matter from the area fronting upon his
or her place of residence or property owned by him or her, as per §
90.07, shall be fined not exceeding $10 for each day the offense continues
within seven days after notification thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
CHAPTER 91: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Certain trees prohibited
   
91.02   Duty to trim or remove trees
   
91.03   Protection of trees and shrubs
   
91.04   Injury to trees and shrubs prohibited
Approved Tree List
   
91.15   Title
   
91.16   Designation of village tree
   
91.17   Planting certain approved trees
   
91.18   Planting certain trees prohibited
Tree Regulations
   
91.30   Title
   
91.31   Purpose and intent
   
91.32   Definitions
   
91.33   Tree Commission
   
91.34   Village Arborist
   
91.35   Public nuisances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 CERTAIN TREES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall plant or cause to be planted in the village any poplar or
cottonwood trees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DUTY TO TRIM OR REMOVE TREES.
   (A)   Trimming trees. All trees kept, maintained or cultivated in any of the
streets or public places of the village, the branches of which extend over the
sidewalks or streets, shall be trimmed at least seven feet above the ground so
that the branches thereof will not interfere with persons using the walks or
streets.
   (B)   Removal of dangerous trees.
      (1)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the abutting
premises or of the premises on which the tree grows or stands.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Public Works may trim any tree or shrub or
remove any tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to traffic
or passage shall be done away with.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Posting advertisements or notices. It shall be unlawful to attach any
signs, advertisements or notices to any tree or shrub in any public place.
   (B)   Attaching rope or wires.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or
shrub in any public street, parkway or other public place without the
permission of the Board.
      (2)   Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the
streets, alleys or other public places shall, in the absence of provision in
the franchise concerning the subject, keep the wires and poles free from and
away from trees and shrubs in the places so far as may be possible and shall
keep all trees and shrubs near the wires and poles properly trimmed, subject to
the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works, so that there shall be
no injury done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by their
contact.
   (C)   Gas pipes. Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the
village shall keep the pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done
thereby to any trees, shrubs or persons.
   (D)   Excavations. In making excavations in streets or other public places,
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub
wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any trees or shrubs planted or growing in any
public place, except by permission of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) Penalty, see §
91.99
APPROVED TREE LIST
§ 91.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Amended Crestwood
Approved Tree List Ordinance” of Crestwood, Illinois.
(Ord. 1613, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.16 DESIGNATION OF VILLAGE TREE.
   The tree commonly known as the “Red Sunset Tree” is hereby designated as the
official village tree.
(Ord. 1613, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.17 PLANTING CERTAIN APPROVED TREES.
   (A)   The following trees are hereby approved for planting within the
village and all landscape plans hereafter submitted may include the following
trees and other varieties as may hereafter be review by the Village Arborist,
who shall advise and consult with the Tree Commission.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall review and make recommendations to the
Village Board of any other varieties of approved trees to be included on the
approved tree list of the village:
      (1)   Autumn Purple Ash;
      (2)   Legacy Sugar Maple;
      (3)   October Glory;
      (4)   Debra Maple;
      (5)   Little Leaf Linden;
      (6)   Patmore Ash;
      (7)   Green Mountain Sugar;
      (8)   Marshall Ash (seedless);
      (9)   Red Maple;
      (10)   Greenspice Linden;
      (11)   Northern Red Oak;
      (12)   Red Sunset;
      (13)   Hackberry;
      (14)   Norway Maple;
      (15)   Schwedler Maple;
      (16)   Shademaster Locust (seedless);
      (17)   Summit Ash;
      (18)   Sunburst Locust;
      (19)   Skyline Locust (seedless);
      (20)   Urbanite Ash; and
      (21)   Bradford Pear.
(Ord. 1613, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.18 PLANTING CERTAIN TREES PROHIBITED.
   The planting of the following trees within the corporate limits of the
village is strictly prohibited and the trees are deemed to be a nuisance:
   (A)   Box Elder;
   (B)   Willow;
   (C)   Poplar; and
   (D)   Cottonwood.
(Ord. 1613, passed 5-6-1999)
TREE REGULATIONS
§ 91.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Crestwood Tree
Ordinance” of the village.
(Ord. 1614, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.31 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote and protect
the public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation
of the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants
within the village.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the Village Board that the terms of this
subchapter shall be construed so as to promote:
      (1)   The planting, maintenance, restoration and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs and other plants within the village; and
      (2)   The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage, and the protection of the village from property damage caused
or threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or removal of trees, shrubs
or other plants located within the village.
(Ord. 1614, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE FOR CRESTWOOD
(hereinafter ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL). A manual prepared by the
Village Tree Commission with the assistance of the Village Arborist pursuant to
the ordinance containing regulations and standards for the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants upon village-owned
property.
   ARBORIST. The Village Arborist.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of
land.
   TREES, SHRUBS and OTHER PLANTS. All vegetation, woody or otherwise,
including lawn grass and flowers less than 24 inches in height.
   VILLAGE-OWNED PROPERTY. Property within the corporate limits of village; and
      (1)   Owned by the village in fee simple absolute; or
      (2)   Implied or expressly dedicated to the public for present or future
use for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or for public easements.
(Ord. 1614, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.33 TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The Tree Commission shall be composed of not less than
five, nor more than seven, Commissioners. Commissioners shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Board. These Commissioners shall serve
without pay and shall reside within the village. The remaining Commissioners
shall be ex officio and shall not vote. The ex-officio Commissioners shall be:
the Public Works Supervisor and the Village Arborist. Subject to the exemption
in division (B) below, each Commissioner of the Tree Commission shall serve for
a term of one year.
   (B)   Appointment of members. Of the Commissioners initially appointed to
the Tree Commission, the Chairperson and the Secretary shall serve for a term
of one year. Commissioners initially appointed shall serve for a term of one to
five years; then, all appointments will be for five years or the remainder of a
previous Commissioner’s term. Term shall start on a common date. Determination
of the length of terms of the Commissioners initially appointed shall be by
lot. The Mayor shall designate the Chairperson and Secretary of the Tree
Commission.
   (C)   Expiration or vacation of terms. Should any Commissioner resign or be
removed from the Tree Commission, a successor shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Village Board for the duration of the unexpired term
of the Commissioner who resigns or is removed from his or her position.
   (D)   Duties. The Tree Commission shall perform the following duties in an
advisory capacity to the Board.
      (1)   Within a reasonable time after the appointment of the Tree
Commission, upon call of the Chairperson of the Tree Commission, the Tree
Commission shall meet and adopt rules of procedure for regular and special
meetings to fulfill the duties imposed upon it by this subchapter.
      (2)   The Tree Commission shall advise and consult with the Village Board
on any matter pertaining hereto and its enforcement. The topics under which
this advice and consultation may be given may include, but are not limited to,
any of the following:
         (a)   Amendments hereto or any other ordinance implemented by the Tree
Commission, and alterations or revisions to the Arboricultural Specifications
Manual and alterations or revisions of the Urban Forestry Plan;
         (b)   Policy concerning selection, planting, maintenance and removal
of trees, shrubs and other plants within the village; and/or
         (c)   Establishment of a maintenance program for village-owned
property, including parks.
      (3)   The Tree Commission shall recommend to the Village Board policies
and procedures, ordinances and/or forms for landscapers, residents and the
Public Works Department.
      (4)   The Tree Commission shall recommend to the Village Board a
maintenance program for village-owned property, including parks.
      (5)   The Tree Commission shall recommend to the Village Board any
landscaping or maintenance to be completed on village-owned property, including
parks.
      (6)   The Tree Commission, by recommendation to the Village Board, shall
review landscaping plans of businesses, whether it be a new business or
renovation of any property, and make recommendations to the Village Board.
      (7)   The Tree Commission shall develop, and each subsequent year update
the Urban Forestry Plan, subject to approval of the Village Board. The Plan
shall outline urban forestry program activities for a minimum of the next five
years. This plan shall describe the urban forestry activities to be undertaken
by the village, the reasons for those activities, the possible funding source
(s), the means of accomplishing the activities, and the projected date of
completion. Activities may include, but are not limited to, street tree
inventory, planting, maintenance and removal of trees, maintenance of parks and
other village-owned property, beautification projects and educational projects.
      (8)   The Tree Commission shall develop and periodically review and
recommend revisions to the Village Board as necessary of the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual. This manual shall contain regulations and standards for
the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants upon
village-owned property.
      (9)   The Tree Commission shall cause the approved Urban Forestry Plan
and the Arboricultural Specifications Manual, and all revisions and all
amendments to it, to be published and promulgated, and shall cause three copies
of the manual and all revisions and amendments to it to be available for public
inspection at the office of the Village Clerk. Notice that the information is
available for public inspection shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county at least one week day for four consecutive weeks
immediately following the initial availability of the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual or revisions or amendments thereto. The Arboricultural
Specifications Manual, and any revisions and additions thereto, shall become
effective on the tenth day following the final publication in a newspaper of
general circulation required hereunder.
      (10)   The Village Clerk and/or Tree Commission shall make available to
any interested person copies hereof, information about the activities of the
Tree Commission, copies of the Arboricultural Specifications Manual and copies
of the Urban Forestry Plan.
      (11)   The Tree Commission shall recommend to the Village Board a program
of public information and education that will encourage the planting,
maintenance or removal of trees, shrubs and other plants on private property in
furtherance of the goals of the Urban Forestry Plan.
(Ord. 1614, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.34 VILLAGE ARBORIST.
   (A)   Establishment. The position of the Village Arborist is hereby
established.
   (B)   Duties. The Village Arborist shall perform the following duties.
      (1)   The Village Arborist will be an ex-officio member of the Tree
Commission and will serve in an advisory capacity.
      (2)   The Village Arborist will assist the Tree Commission in developing
and, each subsequent year, updating the Urban Forestry Plan.
      (3)   The Village Arborist will periodically review, as necessary, the
Arboricultural Specifications Manual.
      (4)   The Village Arborist shall make recommendations to the Tree
Commission of whatever acts are necessary, including the planting and
maintenance of trees and the removal of undesirable trees, shrubs and other
plants located on village-owned property, to ensure that all trees, shrubs and
other plants located on village-owned property conform with the Urban Forestry
Plan, the Arboricultural Specifications Manual, as well as other ordinances,
landscaping requirements, policies and maintenance programs established by the
Tree Commission.
(Ord. 1614, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.35 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Definition. The following are hereby declared PUBLIC NUISANCES under
this subchapter:
      (1)   Any dead or dying tree, shrub or other plant, whether located on
village-owned property or on private property;
      (2)   Any otherwise unhealthy tree, shrub or other plant, whether located
on village-owned property or on private property, which harbors insects or
diseases which reasonably may be expected to injure or harm any tree, shrub or
other plant;
      (3)   Any tree, shrub or other plant, or portion thereof, whether located
on village-owned property or on private property, which, by reason of location
or condition, constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare
of the general public; and/or
      (4)   Any tree, shrub or other plant, or portion thereof, whether located
on village-owned property or on private property, which obstructs the free
passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which obstructs a street sign on
village property.
   (B)   Right to inspect. Authorized employees of the village, as determined
by the Village Board, have the authority to enter onto private property
whereupon there is located a tree, shrub, plant or plant part that is suspected
to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement. The following are the prescribed means of abating public
nuisances under this subchapter:
      (1)   Any public nuisance under this subchapter, which is located on
village-owned property, shall be pruned, removed or otherwise treated by the
Public Works Department in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement
of the nuisance within a reasonable time after its discovery.
      (2)   Any public nuisance under this subchapter, which is located on
private-owned property, shall be pruned, removed or otherwise treated by the
property owner or his or her agent in whatever fashion is required to cause the
abatement of the nuisance. No property owner may be found guilty of violating
this provision unless and until the following requirements of notice have been
satisfied.
         (a)   The Building Commissioner shall cause a written notice to be
personally served or sent by registered or certified mail to the person to whom
was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year.
         (b)   The notice shall describe the kind of tree, shrub or other plant
or plant part which has been declared to be a public nuisance; its location on
the property; and the reason for declaring it a nuisance.
         (c)   The notice shall describe, by legal description or by common
description, the premises.
         (d)   The notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance.
         (e)   The notice will require the elimination of the nuisance no less
than 30 days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person to whom was
sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year.
(Ord. 1614, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.30 through
91.35 or who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to the provisions
of §§
91.30 through
91.35, upon being found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $200 for each separate offense. Each day during which any violation of
the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.35 shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense. If, as the result of
the violation of any provision of §§
91.30 through
91.35, the injury, mutilation or death of a tree, shrub or other plant located
on village-owned property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement of the
tree, shrub or other plant shall be borne by the party in violation. The
replacement value of trees and shrubs shall be determined in accordance with
the latest revision of A Guide to the Professional Evaluation of Landscape
Trees, Specimen Shrubs, and Evergreens, as published by the International
Society of Arboriculture.
      (2)   Any party who elects to dispute any action or decision arising out
of the enforcement of §§
91.30 through
91.35 shall be entitled to appeal to the Village Board for a final
determination.
(Ord. 1614, passed 5-6-1999)
CHAPTER 92: PARADES AND MOTORCADES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permit required
   
92.03   Application for permit
   
92.04   Restrictions on issuance of permit
   
92.05   Issuance or denial of permit; appeals
   
92.06   Contents of permit
   
92.07   Officials to be notified
   
92.08   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
92.09   Revocation of permit
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORCADE. An organized procession containing 25 or more vehicles, except
funeral processions, upon any public street, sidewalk or alley.
   PARADE. Any march or procession consisting of people, animals or vehicles,
or combination thereof, except funeral processions, upon any public street,
sidewalk or alley which does not comply with normal and usual traffic
regulations or controls.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 92.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a parade or motorcade in or
upon any public street, sidewalk or alley in the village or knowingly
participate in any parade or motorcade unless and until a permit to conduct the
parade or motorcade has been obtained from the Chief of Police or, as
hereinafter provided, from the Board of Trustees and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who wants to conduct a parade or motorcade shall
apply to the Chief of Police for a permit at least 72 hours in advance of the
date of the proposed parade or motorcade. The Chief of Police may, in his or
her discretion, consider any application for a permit to conduct a parade or
motorcade which is filed less than 72 hours prior to the date the parade or
motorcade is to be conducted.
      (2)   Failure to file an application 72 hours in advance will not result
in automatic denial of the permit, provided that the applicant shows reasonable
grounds why the applicant could not be filed 72 hours in advance.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be made, in writing, on a form
approved by the Chief of Police. In order that adequate arrangements may be
made for the proper policing of the parade or motorcade, the application shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, the sponsoring organization, the parade
or motorcade chairperson and the addresses and telephone numbers of each;
      (2)   The purpose of the parade or motorcade, the date when it is
proposed to be conducted, the location of the assembly area, the location of
the disbanding area, route to be traveled and the approximate time when the
parade or motorcade will assemble, start and terminate;
      (3)   A description of the individual floats, marching units, vehicles
and bands, including a description of any sound amplification equipment to be
used; and
      (4)   Other information as the Chief of Police may deem reasonably
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 92.04 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued authorizing the conduct of a parade or motorcade
which the Chief of Police finds is proposed to be held for the sole purpose of
advertising any product, goods, wares, merchandise or event and is designated
to be held purely for private profit.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 92.05 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; APPEALS.
   (A)   Standards for issuance. The Chief of Police may require a written
statement of the exact route of the proposed parade or motorcade, indicating
streets and directions, and shall issue a parade or motorcade permit
conditioned upon the applicant’s written agreement to comply with the terms of
the permit unless the Chief of Police finds that:
      (1)   The time, route and size of the parade or motorcade will disrupt to
an unreasonable extent the movement of other traffic;
      (2)   The parade or motorcade is of a size or nature that requires the
diversion of so great a number of police officers of the village to properly
police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto that allowing the
parade or motorcade would deny reasonable police protection to the village; and
      (3)   The parade or motorcade will interfere with another parade or
motorcade for which a permit has been issued.
   (B)   Standards for denial. The Chief of Police shall deny an application
for a parade or motorcade permit and notify the applicant of the denial where:
      (1)   The Chief of Police makes any finding contrary to the findings
required to be made for the issuance of a permit;
      (2)   The information contained in the application is found to be false
or nonexistent in any material detail; and
      (3)   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Upon a denial by the Chief of Police of an application made
pursuant to §
92.03, the applicant may appeal from the determination of the Chief of Police
within five days thereafter to the Board of Trustees and Mayor by filing a
written notice of appeal for hearing by the Board of Trustees and Mayor at
their next regular meeting. Upon the appeal, the Board of Trustees and Mayor
may reverse, affirm or modify in any regard the determination of the Chief of
Police.
      (2)   In the event an application is not filed within the required time,
as specified in §
92.03, the applicant may request a waiver of the requirement by the Board of
Trustees and Mayor at their next regular meeting or at a special meeting which
may be called prior thereto by the Board of Trustees and Mayor to consider the
matter, and the Board of Trustees and Mayor, if they find unusual circumstances
and in the exercise of sound discretion, may waive the requirement.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
§ 92.06 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   In each permit, the Chief of Police shall specify:
      (1)   The assembly area and time therefor;
      (2)   The starting time;
      (3)   The minimum and maximum speeds;
      (4)   The route of the parade or motorcade;
      (5)   What portions of streets to be traveled may be occupied by the
parade or motorcade;
      (6)   The maximum number of platoons or units and the maximum and minimum
intervals of space to be maintained between the units of the parade or
motorcade;
      (7)   The maximum length of the parade or motorcade in miles or fractions
thereof;
      (8)   The disbanding area and disbanding time;
      (9)   The number of persons required to monitor the parade or motorcade;
      (10)   The number and type of vehicles, if any;
      (11)   The material and maximum size of any sign, banner, placard or
carrying device therefor;
      (12)   The materials used in the construction of floats used in any
parade shall be of fire-retardant materials and shall be subject to such
requirements concerning fire safety as may be determined by the Fire Chief;
      (13)   The permittee advise all participants in the parade or motorcade,
whether orally or by written notice, of the terms and conditions of the permit,
prior to the commencement of the parade or motorcade;
      (14)   The amplification of sound permitted to be emitted from sound
trucks or bull horns be fixed and not variable;
      (15)   The parade or motorcade continue to move at a fixed rate of speed
and that any willful delay or willful stopping of the parade or motorcade,
except when reasonably required for the safe and orderly conduct of the parade
or motorcade, shall constitute a violation of the permit; and
      (16)   Other requirements as are found by the Chief of Police to be
reasonably necessary for the protection of persons or property.
   (B)   All conditions of the permit shall be complied with so far as
reasonably practicable.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
§ 92.07 OFFICIALS TO BE NOTIFIED.
   Immediately upon the granting of a permit for a parade or motorcade, the
Chief of Police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
   (A)   Mayor;
   (B)   Fire Chief; and
   (C)   Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 92.08 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   No person shall knowingly join or participate in any parade or motorcade
conducted under permit from the Chief of Police in violation of any of the
terms of the permit nor knowingly join or participate in any permitted parade
or motorcade without the consent and over the objection of the permittee nor,
in any manner, interfere with its progress or orderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit for a parade or motorcade issued pursuant to this chapter may be
summarily revoked by the Chief of Police at any time when, by reason of
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency, the Chief of Police
determines that the safety of the public or property requires the revocation.
Notice of the action revoking a permit shall be delivered, in writing to the
permittee by personal service or by certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Livestock prohibited
   
93.02   Noisy animals
   
93.03   Diseased animals
   
93.04   Dangerous animals
   
93.05   [Reserved]
   
93.06   Prohibited acts
Dogs and Cats
   
93.20   License required; exemptions
   
93.21   License fee and term
   
93.22   Register kept
   
93.23   License tags
   
93.24   Number of dogs and cats
   
93.25   Rabies control
   
93.26   Running at large prohibited; dogs to be leashed
   
93.27   Impoundment and redemption procedures
   
93.28   Inoculation required
   
93.29   Application for license; license fee
   
93.30   Registry of licensed animals
   
93.31   License tag and collar
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIVESTOCK. Cattle, swine, sheep, goats or poultry.
      POULTRY. All fowl, chickens, roosters, ducks, swans and geese.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own, house or keep any livestock, as defined
herein, on any property within the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. 2721, passed 6-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 NOISY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animals which disturb the peace
by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 2721, passed 6-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of human or beast may be affected, nor shall the diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the
supervision of the Chief of Police or the Health Officer.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Health Officer to secure the
disposition of any diseased animal and the treatment of affected premises as to
prevent the communication and spread of the contagion or infection, except in
cases where the State Veterinarian is empowered to act.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 2721, passed 6-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large within the village; exhibitions or parades of animals
which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon
securing a permit from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The members of the Police Department or any other person in the
village are authorized to kill any dangerous animals of any kind when it is
necessary for the protection of any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 2721, passed 6-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 [RESERVED].
§ 93.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals. No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the
village in any way; any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or
abandons any animal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Injury to birds. It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or wound,
or attempt to kill or wound any bird, by use of a firearm, slingshot, bow and
arrow or otherwise or to take the eggs or young of any bird.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 2721, passed 6-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 93.20 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person owning, keeping or harboring any
dog in the village to register the animal with the Village Clerk and procure a
license for the animal, as required herein. This requirement shall not apply to
a licensed veterinarian or licensed kennel owner who is harboring or otherwise
caring for an animal owned by another; provided, that the owner of the animal
has complied with the requirements of the laws of the state regarding the
control and prevention of rabies.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall be required to procure
a license for any dog which is under the age of four months if the dog is
confined to an enclosed area at all times.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   The annual license fee for each dog kept or harbored in the village shall be
$3. Any licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on December 31
next following its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-2)
§ 93.22 REGISTER KEPT.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a complete register, in a book especially kept
for the purpose, of all licensed dogs, describing the same by name, breed,
color and sex, and showing the name and address of the owner or keeper, as
given, and the number of the village license tag.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-3)
§ 93.23 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Issuance of tags. The Village Clerk shall provide, each and every
year, the number of metal tags as may be necessary, having stamped thereon the
year for which the tax is paid. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to
deliver one metal tag to the person having paid the license fee and the number
of each tag shall correspond with the registry of the dog.
   (B)   Tag attached to collar. Every dog shall be provided by the owner or
keeper with a leather or other suitable collar to which the license tag will be
securely fastened. No dog shall be permitted to remain within the limits of the
village unless the owner or keeper thereof shall have caused the dog to be
registered and provided with the collar and tag.
   (C)   Removal of tag or collar prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person, without the consent of the owner or keeper, to remove the collar and/or
license tag from any dog for which the village dog license has been paid or to
untie, take or release any dog out of the enclosure or off the premises of its
owner or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To harbor a total of more than three dogs and/or cats within any
house, apartment, dwelling unit and/or building located or maintained in any
Single-Family or Two-Family Apartment Residential Zoning District, as defined
and stated in the applicable sections of the Zoning Ordinance and relevant
provisions of the village code; and/or
   (B)   To keep a total of more than three dogs and/or cats within or upon any
lot located in any Single-Family or Two-Family Apartment Residential Zoning
District, as defined and stated in the applicable sections of the Zoning
Ordinance and relevant provisions of the village code.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-5) (Ord. 608, passed 5-20-1976) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Inoculation required. Every person owning, keeping or harboring any
dog in the village shall, prior to January 1 of each year or at intervals as
may hereafter be promulgated by the Health Commissioner of the village, cause
the dog to be inoculated against rabies as is required by the laws of the
state.
   (B)   Dog bites.
      (1)   Whenever the Chief of Police receives information that any person
has been bitten by a dog or other animal, the Chief of Police shall have the
dog or other animal confined and observed by a licensed veterinarian. The
veterinarian shall report, in writing, to the Chief of Police, within 24 hours
after the dog or other animal is confined by him or her, the owner’s name,
address and the date of confinement, the breed, description, age and sex of the
dog or other animal and shall keep the dog or other animal for ten days and
notify the Chief of Police, in writing, of the final disposition of the dog or
other animal at the termination of the period of confinement.
      (2)   It is unlawful:
         (a)   For any person having knowledge that any person has been bitten
by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the Chief of Police, promptly;
         (b)   For the owner of the dog or other animal to sell or give away or
otherwise dispose of any dog or other animal that is known to have bitten a
person until it is released by the Chief of Police or his or her authorized
agent; and
         (c)   For the owner of the dog or other animal to refuse or fail to
comply with the written or printed recommendations made by the Chief of Police,
in any particular case. The written or printed recommendations shall be mailed
by regular mail, postage pre-paid, and addressed to the owner of the dog or
other animal. The affidavit or testimony of the Chief of Police or other
properly authorized agent of the Chief of Police who mailed the recommendations
shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of the recommendations by the
owner of the dog or other animal. All costs under this division (B) and
division (C) below shall be borne by the owner.
   (C)   Rabies suspects. The owner of any dog or other animal which exhibits
symptoms of rabies and any dog or other animal in direct contact with the dog
or other animal, whether or not the dog or other animal has been vaccinated,
shall immediately notify the Chief of Police and shall promptly confine the dog
or other animal, or have it confined, under suitable observation, for a period
of at least ten days, unless officially authorized by the Chief of Police, in
writing, to release it sooner.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; DOGS TO BE LEASHED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog owned by him or her or
in his or her possession to travel or run at large upon the streets, alleys or
other public places or upon private property of another in the village unless
the dog is restrained by a leash no more than eight feet in length. In no
circumstances shall any dog be walked or aired upon private property of another
unless and until permission is granted by the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-7) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Dog pound.
      (1)   Pound provided. There shall be provided and maintained at some
suitable place a dog pound for the impounding of all dogs found running at
large within the village limits contrary to any ordinance of the village or for
any other dogs which, by this subchapter, are required to be impounded.
      (2)   Poundkeeper. The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to
designate the person as he or she may deem appropriate, whether residing within
or outside the boundaries of the village, to act as poundkeeper and to collect
and receive the charges for dogs impounded in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Impoundment and redemption; costs.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or some person
designated by him or her to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and to
take up and impound any dog found running at large or not wearing a collar and
license tag in the village as required by this subchapter.
      (2)   Upon impounding any dog, the Chief of Police, or person designated
by him or her, shall notify the owner thereof, if the owner can reasonably be
identified; and the owner shall be entitled to redeem the dog, if unlicensed,
by paying the current year’s license fee and a redemption fee of $50, plus the
cost of keeping the dog while impounded and if licensed, by paying a redemption
fee of $50, plus the cost of keeping the dog while impounded. If the dog is not
redeemed within three days, the same may be humanely destroyed, sold or
disposed of by the village as the Chief of Police may determine and direct.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-8)
§ 93.28 INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner or keeper of any dog or cat which is kept within the
limits of the village shall cause such dog or cat to be inoculated by a
licensed veterinarian on an annual basis and shall provide, upon the request of
the village, proof of a valid inoculation for the current year.
   (B)   No dog or cat shall be licensed by the village without presentation of
an inoculation certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian certifying the
date of inoculation of the dog or cat to be licensed.
(Ord. 2042, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Every person who harbors or keeps a dog or cat over the age of four
months in the village shall pay an annual license fee as provided in §
93.21 above. The fee shall be paid in advance on or before January 1 of each
year. Payment of the license fee shall be accompanied by a written application
providing the following information: the name, breed and color and sex of such
dog or cat; the name and address of the owner or keeper; the address where the
dog or cat will be kept. Application for the license shall be as made at the
office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   By the application the owner or keeper of a dog or cat shall consent
to the surrender of the dog or cat to the appropriate village official, health
officer or the police upon request for any purpose for which the removal or
impounding of such dog or cat is authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 2042, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.30 REGISTRY OF LICENSED ANIMALS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a complete registry of all dogs or cats
licensed by authority of this chapter describing the same by name, breed, color
and sex and shall also enter therein the name and address of the owner as given
and the dog or cat license tag number.
(Ord. 2042, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 LICENSE TAG AND COLLAR.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall annually provide the number of metal tags as
may be necessary. The shape of the tag shall change each year, and each tag
shall be stamped with the year for which the license fee is paid, and also the
number of the tag. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to deliver one
such metal tag, numbered to correspond with the number of the registry of the
dog or cat, to the person who paid the license fee for the dog or cat.
   (B)   No dog or cat kept within the village shall be allowed or permitted
outside the owner's or keeper's residence without a good and substantial collar
with a current village license tag for the dog or cat securely affixed thereto.
(Ord. 2042, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.06 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
93.20 through
93.27 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense.
   (D)   All persons violating §§
93.28 through
93.31 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-9) (Ord. 2042, passed 4-21-2011)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Expectorating
   
94.002   Loudspeakers; sound trucks
   
94.003   Bonfires
   
94.004   Hydrogen balloons
Sanitary Code
   
94.020   Short title
   
94.021   Definitions
   
94.022   Refuse storage regulations
   
94.023   Collection of garbage and refuse
   
94.024   Burning garbage and refuse prohibited
   
94.025   Unlawful deposits; littering
   
94.026   Accumulation of junk prohibited
   
94.027   Property maintenance; rodents, insects and other pests
Scavengers
   
94.040   License required; number restricted
   
94.041   Application for license; investigation; issuance
   
94.042   License fee and term
   
94.043   License denial, suspension or revocation; appeals
   
94.044   Vehicle and equipment requirements
   
94.045   Storage of garbage and refuse prohibited
Plants and Weeds
   
94.060   Nuisance declared
   
94.061   Height restrictions
   
94.062   Notice to remove
   
94.063   Abatement; costs
   
94.064   Weed cutting lien
Nuisances
   
94.080   Definitions
   
94.081   Declaration of public nuisances
   
94.082   Abatement
   
94.083   Citation procedure
   
94.084   RRA license inspection and property maintenance
   
94.085   Short term rentals
Noise
   
94.100   Excessive noise
   
94.101   Unlawful activities
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 EXPECTORATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk
or upon the floor of or in any public building or room used for public
assemblies or in public vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.002 LOUDSPEAKERS; SOUND TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle, unless the person in
charge of the vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the Chief of Police to operate any vehicle so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 BONFIRES.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or authorize any fire to be
kindled or maintained on or in any street, alley, road, land or public grounds
or upon any private lot, unless a written permit so to do shall first have been
secured from the Fire Chief and approved by the Board of Trustees and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.004 HYDROGEN BALLOONS.
   It is prohibited to inflate toy balloons with hydrogen or to sell or to use
toy balloons so inflated.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4) Penalty, see §
94.999
SANITARY CODE
§ 94.020 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “The Sanitary Code of the Village of
Crestwood”.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 94.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building or a part of a building designed,
intended or used as an apartment house, apartment hotel, tenement house, motel
or other use in which there is more than one dwelling.
   OCCUPATIONAL UNIT. A building or part of a building designed, intended or
used for any purpose other than a single dwelling or multiple dwelling.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture
and bedding; noncombustible trash, including but not limited to metals, tin
cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete,
glass, crockery and other mineral waste; street rubbish, including, but not
limited to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt and contents of
litter receptacles, but REFUSE does not mean earth and wastes from building
remodeling or home repair operations nor shall it include solid wastes
resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food
processing wastes, boiler-house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed as or intended for or used as a
residence for a single family or for a group of persons other than a single
family, when the group does not exceed six in number.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 94.022 REFUSE STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Types of containers; specifications.
      (1)   Standard refuse container. The standard refuse container required
by this subchapter shall be a receptacle of not less than 20, nor more than 30-
gallons’ capacity, leakproof, of impervious material and sturdy construction,
with a tight fitting cover in place at all times, equipped with at least two
handles properly placed to facilitate handling and shall be subject to the
approval of the Health Commissioner.
      (2)   Sanitary refuse container. The sanitary refuse container required
by this subchapter shall be a receptacle constructed of impervious material,
leakproof and subject to the approval of the Health Commissioner.
   (B)   Duty to provide containers.
      (1)   The occupant of every single-family dwelling shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair not less than one standard refuse
container.
      (2)   The owner or his or her agent of every multiple-family dwelling
shall provide at least one sanitary refuse container for each floor and not
less than one sanitary refuse container for every ten persons dwelling therein.
      (3)   The occupant of every building shall provide a sufficient number of
sanitary refuse containers for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating
between collections.
      (4)   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside of the
building must be kept in standard refuse containers.
   (C)   Use of containers.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every single-family
dwelling, multiple-family dwelling or occupational unit to cause all refuse,
garbage or ashes produced therein to be deposited in the refuse container as
provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the owner or
occupant of the premises served by a refuse container, to deposit or cause to
be deposited therein any article or thing whatsoever.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any standard
refuse container any article or thing, except refuse, garbage or ashes, as
defined in this subchapter.
   (D)   Containers to be enclosed. It shall be the duty of the occupant and
owner of any building, dwelling, dwelling unit or occupational unit located in
an R-2 Residential Multiple-Family Zoning District, as defined by §§
159.045 through
159.047, to place, or cause to be placed, all garbage and/or refuse containers
within an enclosure consisting of a fence, screen, walls, structure or
building, or any combination thereof, completely concealed from outside view,
and the enclosure shall be of a height, size and materials sufficient to
completely conceal the containers therein from public view.
   (E)   Placement of containers for collection. It shall be the responsibility
of the property owner or occupant of any house, building, flat or apartment in
the village, where people reside, to place garbage and refuse containers at the
curb line for collection not earlier than 6:00 p.m. of the day preceding
collection day and to remove empty containers to their normal places of storage
by 8:00 p.m. of the day of collection.
   (F)   Brush and tree trimmings. All brush and tree trimmings, limbs and
branches placed for collection shall be cut into sections of not more than
three lineal feet and bundled or tied.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 647, passed 7-21-1977) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
      (1)   Every owner or person in possession of a single-family dwelling in
the village shall be required to have accumulations of refuse, garbage and
ashes removed and disposed of at his or her own cost and expense, except as
specifically undertaken by the village in division (A)(3) below, utilizing
scavengers who are authorized by the village to remove the refuse, garbage or
ashes from single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Every owner or person in possession of a condominium in the village
shall be required to have accumulations of refuse, garbage and ashes removed
and disposed of at his or her own cost and expense, except as specifically
undertaken by the village in division (A)(3) below, utilizing scavengers who
are authorized by the village to remove the refuse, garbage or ashes from
condominium dwellings.
      (3)   The initial owner and first person in possession of a newly
constructed owner-occupied single-family dwelling or condominium dwelling in a
fully owner-occupied condominium complex in the village electing to have
refuse, garbage and ashes removed and disposed of by the village or by
scavengers who are authorized by the village to remove the refuse, garbage or
ashes from owner-occupied single-family dwellings or condominiums in a fully
owner-occupied condominium complex on behalf of the village shall be required
to pay, and shall pay, to the village prior to the commencement of the
aforesaid scavenger service, a single, one-time charge equal to 12 times the
then current monthly rate billed to the village by the scavenger authorized by
the village for scavenger service to the subject single-family dwelling or
condominium complex for a 12-month term commencing upon the date of initial
occupancy of the newly constructed single-family dwelling. Thereafter, the
village will pay for the removal of the refuse, garbage or ash, excepting
building materials.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings. It shall be the duty of the owner of every
multiple-family dwelling to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse, garbage and ashes produced
therein. MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall mean rental apartments and
condominiums or condominium complexes which are rented, in whole or part.
   (C)   Occupational units. It shall be the duty of the owner or person in
possession of every occupational unit to cause to be removed, at his or her own
cost and expense, at least once each week, all refuse, garbage and ashes
produced therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon notice in writing by the
Commissioner of Health, the owner or person in possession of an occupational
unit may be required to cause the removal of certain garbage, refuse and ashes
more often than once a week.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 1125, passed 7-6-1989; Ord. 1767, passed 5-15-2003)
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.024 BURNING GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, refuse or any materials
within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.025 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS; LITTERING.
   (A)   No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street,
alley, drainage ditch, private place or public place, except as is provided in
this subchapter and no refuse shall be so placed that it can be blown about or
scattered by the wind.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person (in person or by his or her agent,
employee or servant) to cast, throw, sweep, sift or deposit in any manner in or
upon any public way or other public place in the village, or in any river,
canal, public water, drain, sewer or receiving basin within the jurisdiction of
the village, any kind of dirt, rubbish, waste article, thing or substance
whatsoever, whether liquid or solid.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person (in person or by his or her agent,
employee or servant) to cast, throw, sweep, sift or deposit any of the items
mentioned in division (B) above anywhere within the jurisdiction of the village
in a manner that it may be carried or deposited, in whole or in part, by the
action of the sun, wind, rain or snow, into any of the aforementioned places.
However, this division (C) shall not apply to:
      (1)   The deposit of material under a permit authorized by any ordinance
of the village;
      (2)   Goods, wares or merchandise deposited upon any public way or other
public place temporarily, in the necessary course of trade, and removed
therefrom within two hours after being so deposited; or
      (3)   Articles or things deposited in or conducted into the village sewer
system through lawful drains in accordance with the ordinances of the village
relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) (Ord. 774, passed 10-18-1979) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.026 ACCUMULATION OF JUNK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No yard, lot, premises or enclosure, or part thereof, shall be used,
kept, maintained or operated for the purpose of storing used lumber, metal or
other secondhand building material, dismantled motor vehicles or parts thereof,
crates, cases, boxes or other discarded material.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles
or materials, including, but not limited to, automobiles in a state of
disrepair, unsightliness or uncleanliness, and which may be described as junk,
adjacent to or in close proximity to any schoolhouse, church, public parks,
public grounds, business buildings or residences without first providing proper
tight buildings for the storage of same.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.027 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; RODENTS, INSECTS AND OTHER PESTS.
   No rental dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit shall be occupied or
continued to be occupied unless the structure in which the unit is located
complies with the provisions and standards of the Village Sanitary Code and is
maintained in a structurally sound condition and kept free from health, fire
and other hazards to life and property. All structures shall be kept free from
insect and rodent infestation. All rental dwellings, dwelling units, or rooming
units shall be treated by a licensed pest control company on an annual basis.
Receipts or reports of pest control inspections and treatments must be made
available upon request to the village’s authorized inspector. All structures in
which insects or rodents are found shall be promptly exterminated by approved
processes that will not be injurious to human health. If, upon inspection,
there is an insect or rodent infestation in more than one dwelling unit, the
owner or operator shall be required to contract with a licensed extermination
company to treat all common areas and infested units not less than once a
month.
(Ord. 2290, passed 3-17-2016; Ord. 2337, passed 12-8-2016)
SCAVENGERS
§ 94.040 LICENSE REQUIRED; NUMBER RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of scavenger or be permitted to
remove and dispose of garbage, refuse or ashes without first having obtained a
license to do so.
   (B)   No license for the operation of a scavenger business in the village
shall be issued or renewed, except upon the order of the Mayor who shall
determine whether or not the public welfare and convenience will be served and
benefitted; however, no more than five licenses for the operation of a
scavenger business shall be in effect at any time.
(Prior Code, § 4-3A-1) (Ord. 709, passed 11-2-1978; Ord. 1980, passed 2-5-2009)
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.041 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Written application for a license shall be directed to the Mayor and
filed in the office of the Village Clerk upon application forms furnished by
the Clerk.
   (B)   The Mayor may conduct, or order, any investigation the Mayor may deem
advisable as to the contents of the application for scavenger license and/or
the qualifications of the applicants.
   (C)   When authorized by the Mayor, the Village Clerk shall issue to the
licensee a license bearing the signature of the Mayor and the Seal of the
village for the term for which the license is granted.
   (D)   Subject to the limitation as to the number of scavenger licenses that
may be in effect at any time, as provided in §
94.040, all licenses authorized to be issued and required to be procured by
this subchapter shall be granted by the Mayor and, when granted by the Mayor,
shall be issued by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-3A-2) (Ord. 748, passed 6-7-1979)
§ 94.042 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   The annual license fee for the operation of a scavenger business in
the village shall be as provided in §
110.14.
   (B)   The license to permit the operation of a scavenger business in the
village shall be for a term of one year which shall begin on January 1 of the
year for which the license is issued and shall terminate on December 31 of the
year.
(Prior Code, § 4-3A-3) (Ord. 748, passed 6-7-1979)
§ 94.043 LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Filing of license denial, revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Subject to the limitation as to the number of scavenger licenses
that may be in effect at any time, as provided in §
94.040, in the event the Mayor refuses or denies an application for license, he
or she shall state his or her reasons for the refusal or denial, in writing,
and file a copy of same with the Village Clerk within 14 days after the filing
of the application or by December 1 of each year, whichever date is later.
      (2)   In the event a license is revoked or suspended by the Mayor, the
Mayor shall file a written statement of the revocation or suspension with the
Village Clerk within 48 hours after the order of revocation or suspension.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   Authority. In the event an application for a license is refused or
denied by the Mayor, or a license is revoked or suspended by the Mayor, the
applicant therefor or licensee may appeal to the Board of Trustees and shall be
entitled to a hearing upon the refusal, denial, suspension or revocation.
      (2)   Filing appeal. The appeal shall be filed by the applicant or
licensee with the Village Clerk within 14 days after the date of the filing
with the Village Clerk by the Mayor, aforesaid, of his or her refusal, denial,
suspension or revocation.
      (3)   Hearing. The Board of Trustees shall conduct a hearing upon the
appeal by the applicant or licensee within ten days after the appeal shall have
been filed with the Village Clerk. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the
applicant or licensee no less than two days prior to the date of hearing. At
the time of the hearing aforesaid, the Board of Trustees shall consider the
order of refusal, denial, suspension or revocation issued by the Mayor and any
evidence submitted by him or her or in his or her behalf pertaining to same and
any evidence produced by the applicant or licensee upon the issue of the
qualification, or lack thereof, of the applicant or licensee to a scavenger
business license. Prior to the commencement of any hearing on appeal aforesaid,
the Board of Trustees may adopt rules of procedure pertaining to the conduct of
the hearing.
      (4)   Decisions by Board of Trustees. Within seven days after the
completion of the hearing, the Board of Trustees shall issue its decision
determining whether the license constituting the subject matter of the appeal
shall be issued or reinstated. The decision shall be by majority vote of the
Board of Trustees. In the event of a tie vote, the order of the Mayor shall be
sustained. In the event the decision of the Board of Trustees is for issuance
or reinstatement of the license, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Village
Clerk, in writing, to issue or reinstate same, and the Village Clerk,
immediately upon receipt of the written decision and direction, shall issue or
reinstate the license. Notwithstanding any provision herein, the Mayor and
Board of Trustees shall, in no event, authorize, issue or reinstate more than
the number of scavenger business licenses authorized to be in effect at any
time as provided by §
94.040.
(Prior Code, § 4-3A-4) (Ord. 748, passed 6-7-1979)
§ 94.044 VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All equipment used by a scavenger in the course of his or her business shall
be kept and maintained in good working condition, and the equipment shall be so
constructed and used so as to prevent the spillage or leakage of the contents
thereof onto public or private property in the village. It shall be the duty of
every person in possession or control of any equipment used by a scavenger in
the course of his or her business to replace, at once, into any equipment, any
part of the contents hereof which shall have fallen, dropped or spilled from
the equipment upon any public way or other place, including private property.
(Prior Code, § 4-3A-5) (Ord. 748, passed 6-7-1979) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.045 STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   No ashes, garbage or refuse may be stored on the premises of the scavenger
service or left in trucks or other motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4-3A-6) Penalty, see §
94.999
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 94.060 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   Weeds. Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur
or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the
village are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to
permit any weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
   (B)   Barberry bushes. It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or
permit the growth of the bush of the species of tall, common or European
barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.061 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the village; any plants or weeds exceeding the
height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.062 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Services Director to serve or cause to
be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or
plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this subchapter
and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 94.063 ABATEMENT; COSTS.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten days, the
Village Services Director may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account
of the expense of the abatement and the expense shall be charged and paid by
the owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 94.064 WEED CUTTING LIEN.
   (A)   Lien claim.
      (1)   Charges for the weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for the charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been
rendered, the Clerk may file with the Recorder of Deeds of the county a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of
the premises, the expenses and costs incurred and the date the weeds were cut
and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
      (2)   Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address is known; provided, however, that, failure of
the Clerk to record the lien claim or to mail the notice or the failure of the
owner to receive the notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien
for the charges, as provided in the following division (B).
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. The foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the village.
      (2)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
the proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction
over the matter, against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60
days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
NUISANCES
§ 94.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed
to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers or semi-trailers,
motorcycles, buggies and wagons or any other similar vehicle.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   POLICE OFFICER. As used in this subchapter, the term POLICE OFFICER shall
include all police officers of the Crestwood Police Department, including
auxiliary officers, and all other enforcement officers and officials of the
village.
   STREET or HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel, including but not limited to the hard traveled
portions of any roadway, the berm or the parkway.
(Ord. 2037, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 94.081 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Each of the following enumerated acts or omissions is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance and shall constitute a violation of this municipal
code. In addition, it shall be a public nuisance and shall constitute a
violation of this Municipal Code to commit any offense or permit a condition or
use of property which is in fact a nuisance according to the common law, other
ordinances of the village, or the statutes of the State of Illinois, or which
deleteriously affects public health, welfare, or safety, or greatly offends the
public morals or decency.
   (A)   Animals.
      (1)   Animal carcasses. To cause or permit the carcass of any dead animal
or vegetable matter, slops, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable drippings or
other offal or noisome substance of any kind to be collected, deposited or
remain in any place, except in approved covered containers and then only long
enough to be properly disposed of.
      (2)   Unclean animal shelter. To keep, cause or suffer to be kept upon
any premises any stable, kennel, doghouse, dog-run or other structure or place
for the retaining, care or shelter of any domestic animals in an unclean,
unsanitary or filthy condition.
      (3)   Grazing of animals. To allow or permit the grazing or riding of
animals upon parkways, or on private property without the permission of the
owner thereof, nor in such a manner as to interfere with anyone walking upon
the public sidewalks, or that they may cause damage to ornamental plantings.
      (4)   Certain animals and fowl prohibited. To own, house or keep any
cattle, swine, sheep, goats, chickens, fowl, roosters, ducks, swans, geese or
other livestock on any property within the village or to own, keep or use any
railroad car, yard, pen, place, structure or premise, in or upon which cattle,
swine, chickens, fowl or other livestock shall be confined or kept, and to
keep, cause or suffer to be kept upon any premises any chicken coop, chicken
house or pen.
      (5)   Permitting offensive animal noises. To keep or permit to be kept
upon any premises any dog or other animal or fowl emitting loud, frequent and
continuous offensive noises.
      (6)   Ground feeding. Ground feeding of animals and/or birds, including
but not limited to cats, squirrels, chipmunks, rats, mice, rabbits, raccoons,
opossum, skunk, ducks, geese. To spread, cast, deposit or dump food, including
birdseed, corn, bread pieces, food scraps, animal chow or any like or similar
substance on any public or private property in the village. Aboveground bird
feeders shall be permitted as long as all feed is placed in a container or
feeder designed for the specific purpose of feeding birds.
   (B)   Dogs.
      (1)   Permitting dogs to discharge fecal matter or to urinate on public
or private property. To suffer or permit any dog owned or under one's control
to deposit or discharge any fecal matter or to urinate upon any public or
private property other than upon the property of the owner or person having
control of the dog. The words FECAL MATTER and URINATE shall have the following
meanings:
         FECAL MATTER is hereby defined as waste matter or excrement discharged
from the intestines; and
         URINATE is hereby defined as the act or process of passing or
discharging a fluid from the kidneys known as urine.
      (2)   Dangerous, fierce, vicious dogs. To own or permit any dangerous,
fierce or vicious dog to be found at large in the streets or public ways or
upon the private premises of any person other than the owner or keeper of the
dog.
      (3)   Authority to slay dangerous dogs. Any dangerous, fierce or vicious
dog running at large in the streets or public places of the Village, or upon
private premises of any other person than the owner or keeper is hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and the dog may be slain by any police person.
      (4)   Dogs running at large. To own or permit any dog upon the streets or
in public places or upon private property other than that of the owner or
keeper unless such dog is firmly held on a leash, is muzzled or is in an
enclosed vehicle.
   (C)   Dangerous and offensive conditions.
      (1)   Offensive substances. To throw or deposit any night soil, dead
animal, offal, compost or other offensive or noisome substance upon any lot,
street, alley, park or other public place or in any watercourse, pond, spring
or well.
      (2)   Offensive smells. To so conduct any business or use of any premises
as to create an offensive smell which taints the air or renders it unwholesome
or disagreeable to the neighborhood.
      (3)   Dense or offensive smoke. To cause or permit the emission of dense
smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other device.
      (4)   Obstructing watercourses. To obstruct any watercourse, ravine or
gutter so as to cause water to stagnate therein, or to permit foul or stagnant
water to stand upon any premises.
      (5)   Polluting water. To pollute, corrupt, contaminate or render
unwholesome or impure the water of any drinking hydrant, water main, reservoir,
storm sewer, spring, stream, pond or lake.
      (6)   Unsanitary buildings or premises. To prevent any building,
structure or premises to become a breeding place for rats or other vermin or to
permit the building, structure or premises to remain in an unclean or
unsanitary condition so as to be prejudicial or dangerous to the health of
individuals or the public.
      (7)   Offensive business: To erect, maintain or use any building or other
place for a rendery, tallow chandlery, glue factory, tannery, slaughtering
house, packing house, rendering establishment, bone factory or without
limitation to the foregoing, for any trade, employment or manufacture which by
occasioning noxious exhalations or otherwise, is offensive and dangerous to
health of individuals or the public.
      (8)   Dangerous buildings, structures or premises. To permit any
building, structure or premises to become or remain in an unsafe or dilapidated
condition so as to pose a danger to public health, safety or welfare.
      (9)   Stagnant water. To allow stagnant water to accumulate or stand in
swimming pools, ornamental ponds or fountains, and other containers so as to
enhance or promote the breeding of mosquitoes or other unhealthful insects and
the resulting danger to public health, safety and welfare. For purposes of this
section, STAGNANT WATER shall mean any accumulation of water which does not
circulate at all times with sufficient velocity to prevent the existence of any
“dead” or non-moving spots.
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish.
      (1)   Open rubbish.
         (a)   To allow, cause or permit rubbish to be set out upon the
parkways, at the rear of store buildings, or other places, for the purpose of
being picked up by a rubbish collector, in containers which are not suitable or
which permit or allow the rubbish contents to be scattered or blown around,
causing an unclean condition to the annoyance, prejudice or discomfort of
others.
         (b)   To place, cause or permit any tangible thing to be placed upon
or permitted to remain upon any parkway within the village, except for the
purpose of being picked up by a regularly scheduled scavenger service; to allow
or permit the placement of items for pickup by a scavenger service upon any
parkway sooner than one day before the regularly scheduled day for pickup; to
allow or permit containers or other tangible things to remain upon any parkway
beyond the day following the regularly scheduled day for scavenger service
pickup.
      (2)   Garbage or refuse on premises. To cause or permit to remain on any
premises garbage, offal, refuse, ashes, miscellaneous waste or any animal or
vegetable matter which is likely to become offensive or injurious to health or
to be blown about by the wind, for a longer period of time than 24 hours at any
one time, except in metal or concrete containers with tight fitting covers
thereon from which regular garbage collection is made at least once a week,
provided, however, that grass clippings and leaves only may be contained in
plastic bags or paper bags clearly marked as yard waste.
      (3)   Garbage and debris.
         (a)   To permit or maintain an unsightly yard, lot or premises where
there is an accumulation or deposit of tin cans, glass jars, bottles, metal
materials, refuse, rubbish, junk, waste, manure, straw, weeds, tree stumps,
tree clippings, brush, firewood, discarded or broken building materials,
discarded sod, old lumber, old brick or concrete blocks, machinery or parts
thereof, or other like matter or things. It shall be unlawful for any person
owning, leasing, occupying or controlling any plot of real estate to permit the
accumulation or deposit of the aforesaid garbage and debris except as
hereinafter provided.
         (b)   Discarded or broken building materials incident to construction
on the site where the debris is located shall not remain on the plot for more
than seven days. Failure to remove the building materials within seven days or
permitting the deposit or accumulation of any of the other garbage or debris
described in division (D)(1) above for any period of time shall constitute a
violation of this section.
         (c)   An authorized village official or representative thereof shall
serve or cause to be served a notice or citation upon any person owning,
leasing, occupying or controlling any real estate within the village upon which
such a nuisance is found to exist, requiring them or any of them to remove the
garbage and debris constituting a nuisance within 24 hours. The notice or
citation will be served in one of the following manners:
            1.   By a written notice sent by United States certified mail,
postage prepaid, to the last known person owning, leasing, occupying or
controlling the real estate and as to the owner the notice may be addressed to
the address shown on the most recent tax bill for the real estate.
            2.   By general notice addressed to all owners, lessees, occupants
or persons controlling real estate printed in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, which notice shall direct attention to the
provisions of this section and provide that the garbage and debris shall be
removed not later than ten days after the notice is so printed. The notice is
authorized to be printed once in each month from April through September in
each year as the Director of Development Services shall deem necessary.
            3.   By a written notice personally delivered by the village
official or representative to the person owning, leasing, occupying or
controlling the real estate.
         (d)   In the event any person so notified shall fail or refuse to
comply with the notices or citations, it shall be lawful for the village to
cause the garbage and debris to be removed in any manner it shall designate,
and to charge the cost of the removal to any person owning, leasing, occupying
or controlling the real estate. The cost for so doing shall be calculated on
the basis of administration fee of $500 plus actual cost of garbage and debris
removal.
         (e)   The cost and expense incurred by the village, and/or by the
person or firm performing the service by authority of the village, in the
abatement of the nuisance following the refusal or failure of the responsible
party to abate the nuisance, including reasonable attorneys fees, shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate affected, which lien shall be enforced
as provided by statute. The village shall provide notice of the lien either by
personally serving or sending notice by certified mail to the person to whom
was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the last
preceding year.
         (f)   Any commercial or residential property within the village that
has been previously issued a notice or citation under this section within the
same calendar year will be considered a repeat offender and the village will
have the authority to abate the nuisance without additional prior notice, and
the real estate property owner will have a lien placed upon this property per
the above stated procedures. Notice of the lien shall be sent as in division
(D)(5) above.
      (4)   Burning garbage or leaves. To burn any garbage, refuse, leaves,
grasses, weeds or any organic horticultural landscape waste, except that the
burning of elm tree wood and prunings of elm trees on the premises where it is
produced shall be permitted, as may be necessary, to control the spread of the
Dutch elm disease; provided, however, that all required permits from the County
of Cook, Illinois, the State of Illinois or the United States Government have
been obtained for the burning.
   (E)   Obstruction.
      (1)   Open building materials. To create or suffer to be created or to
remain upon any premises in a residential district for a period of more than
seven days, unless incident to construction on the premises and then not to
exceed 30 days, the storing, piling, accumulating, heaping, amassing or
collecting bricks, concrete blocks, lumber, iron, pipe or any building
materials in such quantities that the same is, or may become a menace to the
health of individuals or the public; or that the same is unsightly,
objectionable and offensive to those living in the neighborhood or to the
public; or that the same may or does become dangerous to the children playing
in the neighborhood; or that the same may or does become an attraction to rats
and thereby become, or is dangerous to the health of any individual or the
public.
      (2)   Business use of public property. To use or occupy any part of a
street, parkway, alley or sidewalk of the village for the purpose of carrying
on, soliciting or promoting any trade, business or other enterprise; also, to
cause or permit the storage of any product, supplies for or equipment
incidental to the operations of such business or enterprises, upon any street,
parkway, alley or sidewalk within the village.
      (3)   Obstructing public ways. To obstruct or encroach upon public
streets and highways, private ways, streets, alleys, sidewalks, parking lots or
public places of the village so as to interfere with the passage of vehicles or
persons thereon.
   (F)   Spreading poisons. To spread, or to cause or permit any agent or
employee to spread any poison for the purpose of killing rats, mice, rodents,
insects or other vermin, in any public way or public place; or to spread or to
cause or permit any agent or employee to spread any poison for the purposes in
any yard, court, passageway or other open place on private premises, or on the
outside of any building or structure, or in any place within a building or
structure which is open to the general public, or where pet dogs, cats or other
domestic animals or fowls have access, without placing the same in a receptacle
of a kind or character that it can be reached only by the kind of vermin which
the poison is intended to kill, or without placing a wire or other guard about
same in such way that no child or domestic animal, domestic fowl, or other
harmless creature can reach the same.
   (G)   Weeds and high grass.
      (1)   To permit the growth upon any premises of any noxious weeds, except
as hereinafter provided. Canada thistles and all of its varieties, perennial
sow thistles, European bindweed, leafy spurge, Russian Knapwood, Johnson grass,
giant foxtail, hoary cress, jimson, burdock, cockleburrs, ragweed, goldenrod
and similar weeds and all weeds which, due to pollination, are a menace to
health are, for the purposes of this section, defined to be noxious weeds. It
shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing, occupying or controlling any
plot of real estate to permit the growth of noxious weeds thereon except when
the real estate is a wetland designated by the Army Corps of Engineers or a
natural area otherwise protected by law, or as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   (a)   All weeds shall be pulled or otherwise destroyed by the
owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in control of the real estate
whenever the weeds shall exceed eight inches in height but in no event less
often than twice a year, once between June 15 and July 1, and once between
August 1 and August 15 of each year. The failure to destroy weeds of the height
specified or within the designated periods shall constitute a violation of this
section. The pulling or destruction of the weeds shall be in accordance with
the following standards:
            1.   In the event the tract of real estate on which the weeds are
located shall be vacant real estate, but being agriculturally cultivated with
crops for sale or for human consumption, the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or
person in control of the real estate shall be required to pull or otherwise
destroy those weeds located within 30 feet of the perimeter of the real estate.
            2.   In the event the tract of real estate on which the weeds are
located shall not exceed five acres and shall be vacant and not contain any
agriculturally cultivated crops for sale or consumption, the owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or person in control of said real estate shall be required to
pull or otherwise destroy those weeds on the entire tract.
            3.   In the event the tract of real estate on which the weeds are
located shall exceed five acres in area and shall be vacant real estate, the
owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in control of the real estate shall
be required to pull or otherwise destroy those weeds located within 30 feet of
the perimeter of the real estate.
         (b)   The height of natural grass shall not be greater than eight
inches in height. This maximum height shall be maintained at all times.
Enforcement shall be conducted as that required for weed control in this
section.
      (3)   An authorized village official or representative thereof shall
serve or cause to be served a notice or citation upon any person owning,
leasing, occupying or controlling any real estate within the village upon which
such a nuisance is found to exist, requiring them or any of them to remove the
weeds and/or high grass constituting the nuisance within 24 hours. The notice
or citations will be served in one of the following manners;
         (a)   By a written notice sent by United States certified mail,
postage prepaid, to the last known person owning, leasing, occupying or
controlling the real estate and as to the owner the notice may be addressed to
the address shown on the most recent tax bill for the real estate.
         (b)   By general notice addressed to all owners, lessees, occupants or
persons controlling real estate printed in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village, which notice shall direct attention to the provisions of this
section and provide that the weeds shall be destroyed and/or tall grass cut not
later than ten days after the notice is so printed. The notice is authorized to
be printed once in each month from April through September in each year as the
Village Services Director shall deem necessary.
         (c)   By a written notice personally delivered by the village official
or representative to the person owning, leasing, occupying or controlling the
real estate.
      (4)   In the event any person so notified shall fail or refuse to comply
with the notices or citations, it shall be lawful for the village to cause such
weeds and/or tall grass to be removed or cut down in any manner it shall
designate, and to charge the cost of the removal to any person owning, leasing,
occupying or controlling the real estate. The cost for so doing shall be
calculated on the basis of administration fee of $500 plus actual cost of weed
and/or tall grass removal.
      (5)   The cost and expense incurred by the village, and/or by the person
or firm performing the service by authority of the village, in the abatement of
the nuisance following the refusal or failure of the responsible party to abate
the nuisance, including reasonable attorney's fees, shall constitute a lien
upon the real estate affected, which lien shall be enforced as provided by
statute. The village shall provide notice of the lien either by personally
serving or sending notice by certified mail to the person to whom was sent the
tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding year.
      (6)   Any commercial or residential property within the village that has
been previously issued a notice or citation under this section within the same
calendar year will be considered a repeat offender and the village will have
the authority to abate the nuisance without additional prior notice, and the
real estate property owner will have a lien placed upon this property per the
above stated procedures. Notice of the lien shall be sent as in division (G)(5)
above.
   (H)   Dead or infected trees and shrubs. To cause or permit to remain on any
premises dead trees or shrubs or trees or shrubs that are infected with
injurious insects, pests or infected with plant diseases which are liable to
spread to other plants, trees or shrubs to the injury of said plants, trees or
shrubs or to the injury of man or property.
   (I)   Combustible materials near buildings. To store, keep, pile or stack
hay, straw, wood, firewood or other combustible or inflammable materials
including but not limited to gasoline, oil, motor fuel, kerosene or other
similar petroleum product within the space of 50 feet of any building.
Provided, however, that this shall not apply to temporary piling of materials
to be used for building purposes, or to businesses licensed for the storage
thereof or to residences where small quantities of said materials are properly
stored for home use.
   (J)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   Parking of vehicles. To park, store or keep any vehicle in any
rear, side or front setback on private or public property on grass or gravel is
prohibited.
      (2)   Repair of motor vehicles in public view. To dismantle, repair or
assemble any motor vehicle or major part thereof on any premises, unless for
compensation; or
         (a)   The activity is done within a structure or building which
shields the activity from the public view and is done solely for a motor
vehicle owned by the owner or lessee of the premises and not for compensation;
or
         (b)   Unless the activity is done solely for a motor vehicle owned by
the owner or lessee of the premises and not for compensation and then not to
exceed a period of three consecutive days if the activity is not done within a
structure or building which shields such activity from the public view; or
         (c)   The activity is undertaken at a licensed business premises.
      (3)   Repair of motor vehicles in public ways. To wash or repair any
motor vehicle, including but not limited to changing or replacing parts,
greasing or the performance of any other type of maintenance, service or work
on any motor vehicle on any roadway or public right of way within the village
except for such emergency repairs as are necessary to remove the vehicle from
the roadway. The emergency repairs shall be made only as close as possible to
the right-hand edge of the roadway, with the vehicle facing in the direction of
the traffic flow, except in cases of indicated one-way streets where emergency
repairs may additionally be performed as close as possible to the left-hand
edge of the roadway, with the vehicle facing in the direction of the traffic
flow; to cause or permit to remain on any premises any motor vehicle, wagon or
other conveyance, not currently licensed by the State of Illinois, which has
been stripped of component parts, permitted to become in a rusted condition or
which has been damaged to the extent that the repair thereof would cost in
excess of $400.
      (4)   Operating motorized vehicles without adequate muffler. To drive,
operate or run any motorized vehicle on private or public property without an
adequate muffler or noise abatement system so as to permit the emission from
the motorized vehicle of loud or disturbing noises. An inadequate muffler or
noise abatement system includes but is not limited to any muffler or, noise
abatement system which has been changed or altered subsequent to original
manufacture, removed or permitted to remain in disrepair due to inadequate or
improper maintenance, an accident or any other cause.
   (K)   Inoperable motor vehicles or parts thereof. To cause or permit an
inoperable motor vehicle to remain on public or private property within the
view of the public.
      (1)   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
            INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a
period of at least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been
removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered,
damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power.
            INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor
power for three consecutive days in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is kept
within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over 25 years
of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business, engaged
in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
      (2)   Once an inoperable motor vehicle described above has been
identified, the Police Department, or the Department of Code Enforcement shall
issue a notice of impending tow for an inoperable motor vehicle. The notice, to
be given in accordance with division (K)(3) below, shall inform the owner,
lessee, occupant or person controlling the real estate whereon the vehicle is
located that the vehicle is scheduled for towing on the tenth day following
receipt of the notice, or publication of the notice, whichever is applicable.
If the person notified wishes to challenge the substance of notice of impending
tow and the scheduled towing before the tow occurs, a tow hearing may be
requested at the Police Department in accordance with Ord. 1319, and a decision
on the appropriateness of tow will be made to determine whether or not the tow
is justified and whether it will proceed as scheduled.
      (3)   The notice of impending tow shall be served in one of the three (3)
following described methods:
         (a)   By a written notice sent by United States certified mail,
postage prepaid, to the last known person owning, leasing, occupying or
controlling the real estate, and as to the owner the notice may be addressed to
the address shown on the most recent tax bill for the real estate.
         (b)   By a written notice personally delivered by a police officer or
the other authorized village official or representative to person owning,
leasing, occupying or controlling the real estate.
         (c)   By general notice addressed to the owner, lessee, occupant or
person controlling said real estate printed in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, which notice shall direct attention to the
provisions of this section.
   (L)   Smoking ban - public places.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
         MAIN ENTRANCE. Any public entryway into or out of an enclosed indoor
area used by the general public and/or to which the general public is invited
or permitted or which serves as a place of employment. A MAIN ENTRANCE does not
include an entryway to or from an outdoor dining area, a delivery/storage
entrance or an entryway limited only to employees working within the enclosed
indoor area.
         OPEN AIR DINING AREA. Any seating area within the village open to the
air that is accessory to a restaurant, hotel, cafeteria, club, or other public
place engaged in purveying commercial food or beverage service where members of
the public, members or guests are invited to sit and receive food and beverage
service for a consideration.
         OUTDOOR VENUE. Any outdoor theater, amphitheater, plaza, street, or
other improved area that is used as a public venue or forum to which members of
the general public are invited to listen, view or otherwise participate in an
outdoor event within the village.
         PARK. Any public park or recreation area within the village that is
open to and used by the general public.
         PUBLIC PLACE.  PARK (as defined herein), OUTDOOR VENUE (as defined
herein), or enclosed indoor area used by the general public and/or to which the
general public is invited or permitted, or which serves as a place of
employment, including but not limited to:
            1.   Health care facilities, nursing homes (except as hereinafter
provided), food service establishments, restaurants, taverns/bars, retail food
stores, banquet halls, commercial establishments, indoor theatres, libraries,
museums, concert halls, public conveyances, educational facilities,
auditoriums, arenas, common or public areas of condominium buildings and health
care facilities (including nursing home care facilities, except as hereinafter
provided), laundromats, public transportation facilities, marketing
establishments, educational facilities, retail stores, convention facilities,
bingo facilities, galleries, shopping malls, arenas and meeting rooms, polling
places, school, Village of Crestwood or other government buildings, offices and
office buildings, factories, warehouses and other places of work.
            2.   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, offices,
elevators, and other common areas.
            3.   Meeting places, meeting or conference rooms, cafeterias, room
chambers, places of public assembly, offices used by more than one employee,
residences used as a licensed child care facility, adult day care facility,
health care facility or a homebased business of any kind open to the public.
            4.   Taxis, vehicles of public conveyance and vehicles owned,
leased or operated by the village.
            5.   Facilities used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage, drama,
lecture, musical recital or other similar performance.
            6.   A PUBLIC PLACE does not include:
               a.   Private residences, except when used as a licensed
childcare facility, adult day care facility, health care facility or a home-
based business of any kind open to the public.
               b.   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests
and are designated as smoking rooms provided, however, that not more than 25%
of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated.
               c.   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-
term care facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are
smokers and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain, as the case
may be, in a room where smoking is permitted.
               d.   A temporary outdoor smoking shelter (“shelter”) erected by
the owner or other person in control of a public place on the premises of the
public place and which outdoor smoking shelter meets the following criteria:
                  i.   Not more than one shelter shall be erected on or upon a
public place;
                  ii.   The shelter shall be permitted only from November 1
through and including April 30 in any year;
                  iii.   The shelter shall not exceed 100 square feet (except
as provided in below) and shall not be located within 15 feet of any main
entrance to a public place;
                  iv.   No food or beverage service shall be provided to or
permitted within the shelter; and
                  v.   Plans for any shelter shall be submitted in advance of
erection to the village's Department of Development Services for review and
approval and, upon the approval, the issuance of a permit. No fee shall be
charged for the review or permit.
         SMOKE or SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar or
cigarette of any kind or any other lighted smoking equipment or the lighting or
emitting or exhaling of the smoke of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind.
SMOKE also means the gaseous products and particles created by the use of a
lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind or any other lighted smoking
equipment.
      (2)   Prohibition of smoking in public places. Except as provided in
division (L)(3), below, smoking shall be prohibited in all public places within
the village. The owner or other person in control of a public place shall post
a clear and conspicuous sign, in form and content approved by the village, at
every main entrance to the public place stating that smoking therein is
prohibited. The owner or other person in control shall also remove all ashtrays
and other smoking paraphernalia from within the public place.
      (3)   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor venues and events.
         (a)   It is unlawful to smoke in the following outdoor venues and/or
events:
            1.   Public parks and recreation areas within 15 feet of any play
area or any playground.
            2.   Public or private school grounds.
            3.   Public sidewalks within 15 feet of a main entrance to a public
place, but excluding any person who is temporarily in such area for the purpose
of walking or traversing through such area.
            4.   At any scheduled outdoor event to which the public is
permitted or invited, which takes place within an outdoor theater,
amphitheater, stadium, or other similar semi-enclosed facility.
         (b)   It is unlawful to smoke in or within 15 feet of an outdoor venue
during the time that an outdoor event (as described in division (L)(3)(a)4.,
above) is taking place.
      (4)   Prohibition of smoking in open air dining areas except as
designated.
         (a)   It is unlawful to smoke in any open air dining area except such
area, or portion thereof, designated for smoking by the owner or other person
in control of the open air dining area.
         (b)   It is unlawful for the owner or other person in control of an
open air dining area to knowingly permit smoking in that open air dining area
unless such area or portion thereof has been designated for smoking.
         (c)   The owner or other person in control of an open air dining area
who has designated all or a portion thereof for smoking must clearly display
signage, in form and content approved by the village, indicating the portion of
the open air dining area where smoking is permitted.
      (5)   Reasonable distance. Smoking is prohibited within 15 feet of any
main entrance to a public place.
      (6)   Non-retaliation. No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to
hire or in any manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment
or customer because that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights
afforded by this section or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of
this section.
      (7)   Violations and penalties.
         (a)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by
this section shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not more
than $100 for the first violation, $150 for the second violation and $200 for
each subsequent violation.
         (b)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a
public place and who fails to comply with the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
            1.   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation.
            2.   A fine not exceeding $500 for the second violation occurring
within one year of the first violation.
            3.   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for each additional violation
occurring within one year of a prior violation and a 60-day suspension or
revocation of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on
which the violation occurred.
         (c)   Each day on which a violation of this section occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
      (8)   Other applicable laws. This section shall not be interpreted or be
construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other
applicable laws.
      (9)   Severability. If any provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of
this section or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be
held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not
affect the other provisions of this section which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
section are declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2037, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2721, passed 6-20-2024)
§ 94.082 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever any nuisance shall be found on any premises within
the village contrary to any provisions of this subchapter, the Mayor of the
Board of Trustees is hereby authorized, in his or her discretion, to cause the
same to be summarily abated, in such manner as he or she may direct.
   (B)   Inspection. For the purpose of carrying the foregoing provisions of
this subchapter into effect, it shall be the duty of the officers or officials
as may be directed or deputized by the Mayor of the Board of Trustees, from
time to time to ascertain and cause all nuisances arising under this subchapter
to be abated. In all cases where a nuisance shall be found in any building, or
upon any grounds or other premises which can be charged by assessment with the
expense of removal, notice shall be given to the owner or occupant of the
building or other premises, when known and can be found, to remove the
nuisance; and in case of his or her refusal or neglect to comply with the
notice, the officers or officials shall abate the same and report the expense
thereof to the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Abatement notice. In all cases where a nuisance shall be found in any
building or upon any ground or other premises within the jurisdiction of the
village, not less than 24-hours' notice may be given in writing, signed by the
officer or official so directed by the Mayor of the Board of Trustees, to the
owner or occupant or person in possession, charge or control of the building or
other premises, if known and can be found, to remove the nuisance. It shall not
be necessary in any case for the notice to specify the manner in which any
nuisance shall be abated, unless the officer or official shall deem it
advisable so to do. If the person so notified shall neglect or refuse to abate
the same in accordance with such notice, he or she shall be chargeable with the
expense which may be incurred in the removal thereof, to be collected by suit
or otherwise in addition to any fine or penalty which may be imposed by law.
   (D)   Emergency situations. In an emergency situation where unless the
village acts, there is an immediate hazard, a serious risk to the public, or an
imminent danger to the public health, safety or welfare from a nuisance
existing in the village, if a reasonable effort under the circumstances has
been made to notify the person causing or permitting the nuisance and that
person is either unavailable or unwilling to abate the nuisance, the nuisance
may be abated without further notice, and a notice describing the action taken
to abate the nuisance posted on the property.
   (E)   Expenses. Where the village acts to abate a nuisance, the expenses
incurred for the abatement shall be chargeable to the person causing or
permitting the nuisance to continue or to the owner of the building, structure
or premises on or from which the nuisance was abated.
(Ord. 2037, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 94.083 CITATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure of police officers. A police officer who halts a person for
a violation of any provisions of this subchapter, other than for the purpose of
giving him or her a warning, warning notice, or preliminary citation as
provided hereafter, shall take the name and address of the person, and other
pertinent information as may be necessary, and shall issue to him or her in
writing on a form provided by the village a citation containing a notice to
answer to the charge against him or her before the proper court.
   (B)   Disposition of citations.
      (1)   Every police officer upon issuing a citation to an alleged violator
of any provisions of this subchapter shall deliver the original citation to his
or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to be delivered
to the proper court in the event the citation has not been settled as herein
provided.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the original citation with the proper court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial or by other official action,
including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a fine.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful and official misconduct for any member of the
Police Department or other officer or public employee or for any other person
to dispose of, alter or deface a citation or any copy thereof, or the record of
the issuance or disposition of any citation, complaint or warrant.
   (C)   Complaint; failure to obey.
      (1)   Citation as complaint for prosecution. The citation when filed
shall be deemed to be a lawful complaint for the purpose of prosecution under
this subchapter.
      (2)   Failure to obey citation. It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate the command of a citation duly issued him or her by a police officer
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the citation was
originally issued.
   (D)   Citation procedure.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer is authorized to give a citation to a
person because of a violation of this subchapter the police officer may, in
lieu of the filing of a complaint in court, in the first instance issue to the
alleged violator, a preliminary citation:
         (a)   Advising the person that he or she has violated a specified
portion of this subchapter;
         (b)   Requesting him or her to make payment in any amount applicable
to the alleged violation as set forth herein as settlement of the violation
claim and to cease said alleged violation; and
         (c)   Informing him or her that upon failure to so settle, a complaint
will be filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, charging him or her with the
violation.
      (2)   (a)   Pursuant to the preliminary citation, the person so accused
of the violation may settle the violation claim in respect of such portion of
this subchapter by paying to the village the applicable amount as shown in the
schedule set forth herein, within a period to be specified in the preliminary
citation, not more than 30 days of the time said alleged offense was committed.
         (b)   The payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions
contained in the aforesaid citation, at the office of the Police Department
which shall issue a receipt for the money so received and promptly remit said
amount to the Village Treasurer to be credited to the proper municipal fund.
      (3)   In the event that the person to whom the preliminary citation is
issued fails to settle and pay the violation claim within the prescribed time,
or within a period of time specified in a final notice (if one is served upon
him or her), then the police officer is authorized to cause a notice to appear
to be served upon the alleged violator and is authorized to file a complaint
and to prosecute the same in the Circuit Court of Cook County.
      (4)   The violation claim described in the preliminary citation so to be
issued pursuant to the terms of this subchapter, may be settled and paid in the
respective amounts set forth in the following schedule:
         (a)   In the event that the payment is made prior to the mailing by
the municipality or by the police officer of a final notice, $25 shall be
accepted as settlement for each violation.
         (b)   In the event that the same person is given a second or greater
number citation or preliminary citation for the same violation under this
subchapter within a period of three years the amount in division (D)(4)(a)
above may be increased to an amount not greater than $750 (every day shall be
considered a separate violation).
         (c)   In the event that payment is not made within the time prescribed
in the final notice, and a notice to appear has been served and a complaint
filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, payment of any fine and costs shall
be in such amounts as may be determined by the Circuit Court of Cook County.
(Ord. 2037, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 94.084 RRA LICENSE INSPECTION AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The RRA License Inspection and Property Maintenance Program
(hereinafter referred to as "the Program" in this section) was established to
prevent and abate nuisances and to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the village by increasing the likelihood that
residential rental units in the village comply with the minimum housing
standards contained in the village code and providing for the correction and
prevention of housing conditions that adversely affect, or are likely to
adversely affect, the life, safety, general welfare and health, including the
physical, mental and social well-being of the persons occupying the dwellings.
The Program was also established to protect the character and stability of
residential areas by facilitating the enforcement of minimum standards for the
maintenance of existing residential buildings and preserving the value of land
and buildings throughout the village.
   (B)   (1)   Registration required. All residential properties that are
rented in whole or part shall file a registration statement for each rental
property with the Village Clerk within the earlier of 30 days from the
effective date of this section or within 30 days of purchase or conversion of
such property to rental purposes. The registration statement shall be prima
facie evidence that the statement is true. The registration statement shall be
on a form provided by the Village Clerk and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner(s),
operators, and rental managers of the residential rental property. If an owner,
operator or rental manager is a partnership, corporation, limited liability
company or similar entity, the statement shall include the name, address and
telephone number for all general partners, managers or officers and the name,
address and telephone number of a person who is designated to receive notices
from the village relating to the rental property. The person designated shall
be authorized to receive service of process on behalf of the owner, operator or
rental manager;
         (b)   When the owner is a land trust, the statement shall include the
name, address and telephone numbers of each person holding a beneficial
interest in the land trust; and
         (c)   The street address and permanent index number of residential
rental, property and the number of dwelling units in the residential rental
property.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a post office box is not
sufficient as an address. Only one registration statement is required for each
multi-family rental residence provided the names of all owners, operators and
rental managers are listed in the registration statement. It is a violation of
this section for any person to submit a registration statement which contains
false information or incomplete information which is intended to be misleading.
   (C)   Inspections. All residential rental property must meet the minimum
living standards for the safety and protection of the tenants as set forth in
the village code. The scope and objects of inspections conducted pursuant to
this section shall be limited to what is reasonably necessary to ensure that
the common areas and rental units in residential rental property are in
compliance with the village's building code, zoning code, electrical code,
plumbing code and fire prevention code.
      (1)   Inspections of common areas. All common areas of multiple-family
rental residences shall be subject to inspection by or on behalf of the village
on a biennial basis (every two years) as provided in this section. Common areas
include, but are not limited to hallways, mechanical rooms, building exteriors
and roofs, basements, storage areas, recreational facilities, accessory
structures, exterior areas, including parking lots, and any other areas which
may be designated as "common areas" in the rental agreement or any description
or plan of rental property. Such inspections are limited to once every three
years unless either division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section applies.
      (2)   Inspection for cause. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
inspection of the common areas of multi-family rental residences, more than
every two years if the Building Inspector has received a complaint or otherwise
has notice of a reasonable suspicion that the multi-family rental residence has
one or more violations under this section. Nothing in this section shall
preclude the inspection of a rental unit following the filing or making of a
complaint with the Building Inspector or if the Building Inspector otherwise
has notice or a reasonable suspicion that conditions within the rental unit may
violate the village's building code, zoning code, electrical code, plumbing
code and fire prevention code.
      (3)   Re-inspection. The village shall conduct re-inspections of common
areas of multi-family rental residences and rental units following an
inspection authorized under divisions (C)(1), (2) or (3) if the Building
Inspector or his or her designated agent has found violations of the village
code and has given the landlord, and/or occupant notice of the violations with
a directive to correct those violations within a specific time.
      (4)   Issuance of certificate. The village shall issue a certificate of
inspection to the owner or landlord if, after inspection, the common areas of a
multi-family rental residence or a rental unit are in compliance with this
section. The certificate of inspection for common areas shall be valid for two
years following the date of issuance. The certificate of inspection for a
rental unit shall be valid until such time as there is a change in occupancy.
      (5)   Denial of certificate. If the common areas of the rental property
or rental unit is in violation of this section, the village shall mail by
registered or certified mail, a written report of such violation(s) to the
landlord or owner within 21 days of inspection. Except where the conditions
resulting from failure of a common area or rental unit to comply with the
requirements of an applicable village ordinance create a situation that poses
an immediate danger to the safety or health of the public or persons who may
occupy rental units in or be on the premises of the rental property, the
village shall allow the landlord or owner not less than 21 days from the
receipt of the report to correct the violations. The report shall state a re-
inspection date. The village shall issue a certificate of inspection if the
violations listed in the report are found to have been corrected upon re-
inspection. If the violations are not corrected, a certificate of inspection
will not be issued and the village may take whatever action is necessary to
enforce compliance with the applicable village code sections and ordinances.
   (D)   Notice of inspection. The Building Inspector or his or her designated
agent shall provide notice of the inspection of the common areas to the
landlord. Notice of inspection for rental unit under divisions (C)(2), (3) and
(4) of this section shall be provided to the occupant of the rental unit to be
inspected, and the landlord if the occupant refuses consent to the inspection.
An inspection shall be conducted only if a landlord and/or occupant have given
their consent to the inspection by the Building Inspector or his or her
designated agent. Notice of inspection shall be given to a landlord by either
sending notice by registered or certified mail to the address of the person or
entity designated in the registration statement or by hand delivery to the
landlord. Notice shall be given to the occupants by registered or certified
mail to the address of the rental unit to be inspected or by hand delivery of
the notice to an occupant who is 18 years of age or older or by posting the
notice on the front door of the rental unit. If the landlord refuses to consent
to the inspection of common areas or if the landlord or occupant of a rental
unit refuses to consent to the inspection of the rental unit, then the village
shall obtain an administrative search warrant as provided in division (E) of
this section.
   (E)   Warrant authorizing inspection without consent. If the appropriate
consent as provided in division (D) of this section has not been given to enter
or inspect the common areas of a rental unit, no entry or inspection pursuant
to the Program shall be made unless a warrant allowing the inspection has been
obtained from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   Registration fees. 
      (1)   The biennial registration fee for all residential rental properties
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family residences: $100.
         (b)   Multi-family residences: $75 per unit.
      (2)   The registration fees shall be payable within 15 days of receipt of
an invoice for such fees.
   (G)   Inspection fees. The biennial inspection fee for all residential
rental properties shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single-family residences: $50.
      (2)   Multi-family residences: $100 plus $10 for each unit in excess of
16 units.
(Ord. 2290, passed 3-17-2016; Ord. 2337, passed 12-8-2016; Ord. 2345, passed 2-
9-2017)
§ 94.085 SHORT TERM RENTALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this §
94.085 is to protect and preserve the quiet enjoyment of residential properties
and neighborhoods within the village and to mitigate and/or eliminate adverse
secondary effects the village and its residents are likely to experience by
reason of short term rental(s) of certain residential structure(s) in the
village, including, but not limited to, gatherings by attendees who have little
connection to or consideration for the neighborhoods or neighbors, which
gatherings are likely to be characterized by excessive noise, overcrowded
parking and criminal activity.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of
Chapter 94 of the Code of Crestwood, the following phrases shall have the
definitions as set forth below:
      (1)   Rental premises. All or part of a principal structure or accessory
structure in a residentially zoned district being rented or otherwise let to
person(s) other than the owner of the subject property.
      (2)   Short term rental. The accessory use and/or occupancy for a period
of less than three consecutive months of a principal structure or accessory
structure pursuant to a written or oral agreement which permits and/or provides
for occupancy of all or part of such structure by any person other than the
owner thereof, or an immediate family member of the owner thereof, and whether
or not the permission of such occupancy is in exchange for consideration
therefore.
   (C)   Registration required; Applicable Code. The provisions of the
preceding section of the code as set forth in §
94.084 shall be applicable to short term rentals.
   (D)   Penalty. Notwithstanding anything otherwise provided in the Code of
Crestwood, any person who violates any provision of this §
94.085, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $250 and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 2453, passed 10-4-2018)
NOISE
§ 94.100 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue to cause to be
made or continue any loud, unnecessary, prolonged or unusual noise which
disturbs the peace of others.
   (B)   Any person who shall, without prior authorization by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees, operate or cause, permit or allow to be operated upon any
public street in the village any mechanically operated piano, phonograph or
other musical instrument, radio or similar mechanical or electrical device or
wind instrument or noisemaking device of any character whatsoever, for the
purpose of advertising any goods, wares, merchandise or other articles for
sale, barter or exchange, or for the purpose of attracting attention, or of
inviting the patronage of any person to any business whatsoever, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense against the village.
(Ord. 2039, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.101 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the following activities, deemed to create
excessive noise:
   (A)   Grass mowing, trimming or operating a chain saw or other gasoline
driven landscaping device before the hour of 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 8:00
a.m. on weekends.
   (B)   Commencing construction in any area within 1,000 feet of any residence
before 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 8:00 a.m. on weekends.
   (C)   Conducting a loud private party or other outside gathering or
gathering within a building containing more than one living unit with music
after 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday or 11:00 p.m. on Friday or
Saturday.
(Ord. 2039, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of §§
94.020 through
94.026 shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $750 and each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
94.022(E) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
94.023(A) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
94.025(B) and (C) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of §
94.026 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
   (G)   Any person violating any provision of §§
94.060 through
94.064 shall be fined not more than $500 and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during on or which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
   (H)   Any person who violates, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who
resists or opposes the enforcement of any of the provisions of §
94.084, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $250 and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (I)   Any person in violation of §§
94.100 and
94.101 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
(Ord. 647, passed 7-21-1977; Ord. 774, passed 10-18-1979; Ord. 1125, passed 7-
6-1989; Ord. 1767, passed 5-15-2003; Ord. 2039, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2337,
passed 12-8-2016; Ord. 2345, passed 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 95: EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
Section
Explosives
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Certain explosives prohibited
   
95.03   Manufacture prohibited
   
95.04   Storage requirements
   
95.05   Transporting explosives
   
95.06   Detonating and blasting
Other Types; Fireworks
   
95.20   Fireworks
   
95.21   Small arms ammunition
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
EXPLOSIVES
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term EXPLOSIVE or EXPLOSIVES, whenever used in this subchapter,
shall be held to mean and include any chemical compound or mechanical mixture
that is commonly used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and
that contains any oxidizing and combustible units or other ingredients in the
proportion, quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction or
concussion, by percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or
mixture may cause a sudden generation of highly heated gasses that the
resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on
contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb or property.
   (B)   Nothing in this definition shall be held to mean and include any small
arms ammunition or signal rockets or devices or compositions used to obtain
visible or audible pyrotechnic effects, which are defined in §
95.20, nor to include explosives in the forms prescribed in the Official United
States Pharmacopeia.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1-(1))
§ 95.02 CERTAIN EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep, store, sell, offer for
sale, give away, use, transport or manufacture any of the following explosives
in any quantity: liquid nitroglycerine; high explosives containing over 60% of
nitroglycerine (except gelatin dynamite); high explosives having an
unsatisfactory absorbent or one that permits leakage of nitroglycerine under
any conditions liable to exist during transportation or storage; nitrocellulose
in a dry and uncompressed condition and in quantity greater than ten pounds in
one exterior package; fulminate of mercury in bulk in a dry condition and
fulminate of all other metals in any condition, except as a component of
manufactured articles not hereinafter forbidden; or explosives containing an
ammonium salt and chlorate.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1-(2)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 MANUFACTURE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture any explosives; except
that, any explosives may be produced in experimental quantities in the
laboratories in colleges and similar institutions for the purpose of
investigation and instruction.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1-(3)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep,
store, use or transport any explosives, except under permit therefor.
   (B)   Magazines. All explosives must be stored in a magazine complying with
the requirements of this subchapter unless the explosives are being transported
or used as prescribed in authorized hereby, and an accurate record showing the
disposition of each container or package of explosives stored, transported or
used shall be kept, the record to be subject to inspection by the Fire Chief at
all times.
      (1)   All magazines in which permissible explosives are had, kept or
stored must be located at distances from neighboring buildings, highways and
railroads in conformity with the American Quantity and Distance Table; provided
that, one portable magazine containing not more than 50 pounds of explosive may
be allowed if placed on wheels and located not more than ten feet from, on the
same floor with and directly opposite to the entrance on the floor nearest the
street level, and one portable magazine containing not more than 5,000 blasting
caps may be allowed if placed on wheels and located on the floor nearest the
street level.
      (2)   Blasting caps or detonators of any kind shall not be kept in the
same magazine with other explosives.
      (3)   All magazines must be kept locked, except when being inspected or
when explosives are being placed therein or being removed therefrom.
      (4)   All magazines or places where explosives are stored must be kept
clean and free from grit, rubbish and empty packages.
      (5)   Magazines shall be made of fireproof material or wood covered with
sheet iron and shall be conspicuously marked “Magazine-Explosives”.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1-(4)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Contents of permit. The permit for transporting explosives shall
designate the time when, and may designate the route whereon, the same may be
transported.
   (B)   Certain vehicles prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
transport or carry any explosive in or upon any public conveyance which is
carrying passengers for hire.
   (C)   Vehicle markings. Every vehicle while carrying explosives shall have
painted on its front, sides and back, in easily legible letters at least four
inches high, in contrasting colors, the word “EXPLOSIVES”, or in lieu thereof,
shall display, in a manner that it will be visible from all directions, a red
flag with the word “DANGER” printed, stamped or sewn thereon in white letters.
The flags shall be at least 24 inches square, and the letters thereof shall be
at least six inches high.
   (D)   Drivers of vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of
a vehicle containing the explosive to smoke in or upon the vehicle, to drive
the vehicle while intoxicated, to drive the vehicle or to conduct himself or
herself in a careless or reckless manner or to load or unload the vehicle in a
careless manner or while smoking or intoxicated.
   (E)   Carrying certain materials prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place or carry or cause to be placed or carried:
      (1)   In the bed or body of any vehicle containing explosives, any metal
tool, other piece of metal, matches, combustible material or combustible
liquid; and/or
      (2)   In any vehicle containing explosives, any exploders, detonators,
blasting caps or other similar explosive material.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1-(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 DETONATING AND BLASTING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) hereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to detonate, use or explode any explosives.
   (B)   No person shall blast or carry on any blasting operations without
first having obtained a permit from the Fire Chief, the Building Department or
other departments or bureaus having control over the work, which permit must be
approved by the Board of Trustees before issuance. The applicant for the permit
must file a bond deemed adequate in each case by the Fire Chief and Board of
Trustees and approved by the Mayor, which bond shall become available in the
payment of any damage arising from the neglect of the contractor or his or her
agents or employees.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1-(6)) Penalty, see §
10.99
OTHER TYPES; FIREWORKS
§ 95.20 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PYROTECHNICS. Any sparkler, squib, rocket, firecracker, Roman candle,
signal lights, railroad track torpedo, flashlight composition, fireworks or
other devices or composition used to obtain visible or audible pyrotechnic
display and shall include fire balloons, that is, balloons of a type which have
burning material of any kind attached thereto.
   (B)   Storage and use. No person shall have, keep, store, use, manufacture,
sell, handle or transport any pyrotechnics; provided, however:
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be held to apply to the possession or
use of signaling devices for current daily use by railroads, vessels and others
requiring them;
      (2)   The Board of Trustees and Mayor may, upon due application, issue a
permit to a properly qualified person for giving a pyrotechnic display of
fireworks in the public parks or other open places. The permits shall impose
restrictions as, in the opinion of the Fire Chief and Board of Trustees and
Mayor, may be necessary to properly safeguard life and property in each case;
and
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be held to apply to the possession,
sale or use of normal stocks, as determined by the Fire Chief, of flashlight
compositions by photographers or dealers in photographic supplies.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.21 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION. Any shotgun, rifle, pistol or revolver cartridges.
   (B)   Manufacture prohibited. No person shall manufacture, within the limits
of the village, small arms ammunition. This shall not be construed as
prohibiting the handloading of small arms ammunition for private use and not
for resale.
   (C)   Permit to store or sell; fee. No person shall store for sale, sell or
offer for sale any small arms ammunition without a permit from the Board of
Trustees, approved by the Mayor, and payment of a $50 permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: SMOKING
Section
   
96.01   Smoking restrictions
   
96.02   Smoking allowed
   
96.03   Commercial establishment to establish individual smoking policy
   
96.04   Designation of smoking areas and ventilation
   
96.05   Smoking prohibitions
   
96.06   Encouraged participation
   
96.07   Partial invalidity
   
96.08   Adoption
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Tobacco, see
Ch. 120
§ 96.01 SMOKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Cook County Clean Indoor Air Ordinance, adopted by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners on March 15, 2006, is hereby declared to be inoperative in the
Village of Crestwood pursuant to the provisions of § 30-925 of the Cook County
Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
§ 96.02 SMOKING ALLOWED.
   Notwithstanding § 4 of the Cook County Ordinance, smoking in all public
places and places of employment is hereby declared to be legal in the village
subject only to such restrictions as existed under federal law, the Illinois
Clean Indoor Air Act, and village ordinances prior to the enactment of the Cook
County Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
§ 96.03 COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT TO ESTABLISH INDIVIDUAL SMOKING POLICY.
   Any commercial establishment within the corporate boundaries of the village
may choose to prohibit or permit smoking on their premises. Each commercial
establishment is required to have affixed on the doors to their establishment,
which are used by the public, a sign of at least four inches square, with
letters of at least one-half inch in height, clearly written in the English
language, notifying potential patrons of the nature and extent of their smoking
policy.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
§ 96.04 DESIGNATION OF SMOKING AREAS AND VENTILATION.
   Any commercial establishment, which is licensed to sell food or liquor on
the premises, or operates a licensed hotel or other lodging facility and
permits smoking on its premises, shall permit smoking only in designated areas
and provide for the elimination of and ventilation of smoke using a commercial
grade smoke elimination system or machine.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
§ 96.05 SMOKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in all publicly owned buildings, excluding
buildings which are leased or licensed to private entities and under the
control of those entities, or within ten feet of an entrance to the building,
excepting any open air patio, veranda, balcony or the like adjoining the
publicly owned building.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited in all buildings used for the purpose of
educating children, any of whom are under the age of 18 years, or within ten
feet of an entrance to the building.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
§ 96.06 ENCOURAGED PARTICIPATION.
   The village strongly encourages all commercial establishments to consider
the value of voluntarily participating in the prohibition of smoking in their
establishments.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
§ 96.07 PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall be held
invalid, the invalidity thereof shall not affect any of the other provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
§ 96.08 ADOPTION.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be immediately in full force and effect
after passage, approval and publication, as provided by law. The ordinance
codified herein is authorized to be published in pamphlet form.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2007)
CHAPTER 97:  SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   97.01   Purpose and scope
   97.02   Definitions
   97.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   97.04   Dispute resolution
   97.05   Indemnification
   97.06   Insurance
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the act.
   (B)   Conflicts with state and Federal laws. In the event that applicable
Federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 2472, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.l.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2) designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the Village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A Federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the Federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. 
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (2)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a raonopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2472, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 97.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (9) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
      (1)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      (2)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the Village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the village's small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment types and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the
deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this section.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 105 days after
the submission of a completed application.
            2.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred and twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the
tenth day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial
of the permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
            1.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider. The village shall document the basis for
a denial, including the specific code provisions or application conditions on
which the denial is based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or
before the day the village denies an application.
            2.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village's review period.
            3.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application. Any review of a revised
application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial. However,
this revised application does not apply if the cure requires the review of a
new location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas,
or other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
village and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement,
provided by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole
by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. 
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village's permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications. 
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits. 
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions
or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. 
         (a)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous division. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division, the terms “communications space,”
“communication worker safety zone,” and “electric supply zone” have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a village
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements. 
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose
that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division.
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit, variance or administrative waiver in
conformance with procedures, terms and conditions set forth in the zoning code.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with division (B)(1)(d) under the section titled
application requirements; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section
18c-7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public
commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in Section 16-102 of
the Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do
not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless
facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the
Public Utilities Act.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division, PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any
requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements. 
      (1)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that were in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village's utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division.
   (G)   Annual recurring rate. 
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals:
         (a)   Two hundred dollars per year; or
         (b)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the village utility pole.
      (2)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment. 
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 2472, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 97.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Cook shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all
disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending
resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small wireless
facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the village
shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of
no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to be
determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2472, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 97.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability.
(Ord. 2472, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 97.06 INSURANCE.
   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   (A)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   (B)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   (C)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village improvements
or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      (2)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the city.
CHAPTER 98: COMBUSTIBLE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
Combustible Materials
   
98.01   Combustible fibers
   
98.02   Deposit of combustible materials
   
98.03   Accumulation of waste; weeds
   
98.04   Storage and removal of combustible waste
   
98.05   Storage of packing boxes
   
98.06   Permit to use certain materials
   
98.07   Open flame near combustible materials
Removal of Released Hazardous Materials
   
98.20   Definitions
   
98.21   Prohibited acts
   
98.22   Response authority
   
98.23   Liability for costs
   
98.24   Defenses
   
98.25   Release in accordance with law
   
98.26   Public duty immunity
   
98.27   Contractual indemnification; subrogation
 
   
98.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS
§ 98.01 COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMBUSTIBLE FIBERS. Cotton, sisal, henequen, ixtle, jute, hemp tow, cocoa
fiber, oakum, baled waste, baled wastepaper, kapok, hay, straw, Spanish moss
and excelsior.
   (B)   Storage requirements.
      (1)   Combustible fibers, under 500 cubic feet or less.
         (a)   Loose fibers, not in suitable bales or packages, whether housed
or in the open, shall not be stored within 100 feet of any building, except as
hereinafter specified.
         (b)   Not more than 100 cubic feet of loose combustible fiber may be
kept in any building, provided storage is in a metal-lined wooden bin, equipped
with a self-closing metal lined cover.
         (c)   Quantities exceeding 100 cubic feet of loose combustible fiber,
but not exceeding 500 cubic feet, may be stored in rooms or compartments having
floor, walls and ceiling constructed of material possessing sufficient fire
resistance to withstand a standard one-hour fire test. Openings into the rooms
or compartments shall be cut off from other parts of the building by approved
fire doors.
      (2)   Quantities exceeding 500 cubic feet. Quantities exceeding 500 cubic
feet of loose combustible fiber may be stored in approved vaults, constructed
as follows.
         (a)   Storage vaults shall preferably be located outside of buildings.
If located inside, safety vents to outside air shall be provided.
         (b)   Walls, floors and ceilings shall be constructed of brick or
other approved noncombustible material, but may be so constructed as to readily
give way in case of an internal explosion.
         (c)   Openings, if any, between vault and main building shall be
protected on each side of the wall by an approved fire door. Wall openings in
outside vaults exposing other property (not sufficiently detached to be
considered cut off) shall be protected by approved fire doors or equivalent.
         (d)   Vaults located within buildings and exceeding 1,000 cubic feet
storage capacity shall be protected by approved automatic sprinklers, if
possible. Where the protection is not available, steam jets or inert gas
systems approved for fire extinguishing purposes shall be installed.
      (3)   Quantities not to exceed 2,500 cubic feet. Requirements for storage
not to exceed 2,500 cubic feet shall be as follows: not more than 2,500 cubic
feet of loose fiber may be stored in a detached “loose house” suitably located,
with openings properly protected against entrance of sparks. The “loose house”
shall be used for no other purpose.
   (C)   Additional requirements. The following are further requirements
relating to combustible fibers.
      (1)   Blocks or piles of baled fiber shall be separated from adjacent
storage by aisles not less than five feet wide or by flash fire barriers
consisting of continuous sheets of noncombustible material extending from floor
to a height of at least one foot above the highest point of piles and
projecting at least one foot beyond the sides of the piles.
      (2)   Sisal and other fibers in bales bound with combustible tie ropes,
also jute and other fibers liable to swell when wet, shall be stored to allow
for expansion to the extent of 20% of their bulk in any direction without
endangering building walls, ceilings or columns. Not less than three feet
clearance shall be maintained between sprinkler pipes and tops of piles. Not
less than three feet clearance shall be left between walls and sides of piles;
except that, if storage compartment is not more than 30 feet in width, one foot
clearance at side walls will be sufficient, provided a center aisle not less
than five feet wide is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.02 DEPOSIT OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person shall deposit ashes, smoldering coal or embers, greasy or oily
substances or other matter liable to create spontaneous ignition within ten
feet of any wooden or plastered wall, partition, fence, floor, sidewalk,
lumber, hay, shavings, rubbish or other combustible materials, except in
metallic or other noncombustible receptacles. The receptacles, unless resting
on a noncombustible floor or on the ground outside the building, must be placed
on a noncombustible stand and, in every case, must be kept at least two feet
away from any combustible wall or partition.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 ACCUMULATION OF WASTE; WEEDS.
   No person shall permit to remain upon any roof or in any court, yard, vacant
lot or open space any accumulation of wastepaper, hay, grass, straw, weeds,
litter or combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any kind. All weeds,
grass, vines or other growth, when same endangers property or is liable to be
fired, shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the property
it is on.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 STORAGE AND REMOVAL OF COMBUSTIBLE WASTE.
   No person making, using, storing or having charge or control of any
shavings, excelsior, rubbish, sacks, bags, litter, hay, straw or combustible
trash, waste or fragments shall fail, neglect or refuse at the close of each
day to cause all material, which is not compactly baled and stacked in an
orderly manner, to be removed from the building or stored in suitable vaults or
in metal or metal-lined covered receptacles or bins. The Fire Chief shall
require suitable baling presses to be installed in stores, apartment buildings,
factories and similar places where accumulations of paper and waste materials
are not removed at least every second day.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-4) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05 STORAGE OF PACKING BOXES.
   The storage of empty packing cases, boxes, barrels or other similar
combustible containers is forbidden, without a license, except in the open;
provided, however, that, no license shall be required for the storage within a
manufacturing or other establishment of sufficient packing cases, boxes,
barrels or other similar containers to properly carry on its operations, but
the storage shall be orderly and not so located as to endanger exit from the
building. Storage in the open of packing cases, boxes, barrels or other similar
combustible containers shall not be more than 20 feet in height and shall be so
located, with respect to other buildings, as not to constitute a hazard. All
storage shall be in a compact and orderly manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-5) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.06 PERMIT TO USE CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   Cotton batting, straw, dry vines, leaves, trees, celluloid or other highly
flammable materials shall not be used for decoration purposes in show windows
or stores without a permit; provided, however, that nothing in this section
shall be held to prohibit the display of saleable goods permitted and offered
for sale in the store. Electric light bulbs in stores or public halls shall not
be decorated with paper or other combustible materials unless the materials
shall first have been rendered flameproof.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-6) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.07 OPEN FLAMES NEAR COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall take into any building, barn, vessel, boat or any
other place where highly flammable, combustible or explosive material is kept,
an open flame, unless the light or flame shall be well secured in a glass
globe, wire mesh cage or similar approved device.
   (B)   No heating apparatus with an open flame and no artificial lighting
system other than incandescent electric lights shall be used in any warehouse
for the storage of rags, excelsior, hair or other flammable or combustible
material nor in any shop or factory used for the manufacture, repair or
renovating of mattresses or bedding, nor in any establishment for the
upholstery of furniture.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-7) Penalty, see §
98.99
REMOVAL OF RELEASED HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 98.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COSTS. All expenses incurred by the village for any removal or remedial
action.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft. Also,
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned, placed or otherwise come to be located.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, substance or mixture of materials or
substances which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive, carcinogenic or
radioactive including, but not limited to, any substance or material which is
designated a hazardous material pursuant to the “Hazardous Materials
Transportation Act” (49 U.S.C. §§ 1801 et seq.) in a quantity and form which
may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or
the environment when improperly released, treated, stored, transported,
disposed of or otherwise managed.
   PERSON. Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation,
association, trust, estate, joint venture or other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assign.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping,
emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous
material into or on any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that
the hazardous material or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
   REMEDIAL ACTION. Any action consistent with permanent, remedy taken instead
of, or in addition to, removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent or minimize
the release of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, the actions at the
location of the release as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using
dikes, trenches, or ditches, clay cover, neutralization, cleanup of released
hazardous materials or contaminated materials, recycling or reuse, diversion,
destruction, segregation of reactive wastes, repair or replacement of leaking
containers, collection of leachate and runoff, on-site treatment or
incineration, provision of alternate water supplies, and any monitoring
reasonably required to assure that the actions protect the public health and
welfare and the environment.
   REMOVAL. The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment, the actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous materials, the
disposal of removed material or the taking of the action as may be necessary to
prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare of the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, security fencing,
provision of alternative water supplies and temporary evacuation of threatened
individuals.
   RESPONSE. Any removal or remedial action.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
§ 98.21 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous materials
into the environment unless the release is in accordance with an appropriate
permit granted by the State Environmental Protection Agency or other state or
federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release and the release is
in a place and manner as will not create a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health, property or the environment.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.22 RESPONSE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative shall have
authority to respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous
materials within the village or affecting the public water supply, wells or
sewage treatment works located within the village. This authority includes, but
is not limited to, remedial action and removal.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief shall have primary authority to respond to any
release or threatened release of hazardous materials as described above.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall report any release or threatened release of
hazardous materials to all appropriate federal, state and local public health,
safety and emergency agencies within 24 hours of any substantial release of
hazardous materials. The Fire Chief shall relinquish his or her response
authority at the time, if any, as the federal, state or local public health,
safety or emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release or
threatened release has assumed responsibility for response to the release or
threatened release.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, during the time as response authority is vested in him
or her, shall be authorized to utilize all district personnel and equipment and
he or she may, in his or her sole discretion, take remedial or removal action
as he or she may deem necessary or appropriate to respond to the release or
threatened release of hazardous material.
   (D)   All village personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the Fire Chief or other person then exercising response authority
under this subchapter until the time as the person exercising the response
authority has determined that the response is complete or responsibility for
response is assumed by the federal, state or local public health, safety or
emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened
release.
   (E)   The person exercising response authority under this subchapter shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local public health,
safety or emergency agencies involved in response to the release or threatened
release of hazardous materials.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
§ 98.23 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only
to the defenses set forth in §
98.24, the following persons shall be jointly and severally liable for all
costs of removal and remedial action incurred by the village as a result of a
release or threatened release of a hazardous materials provided the persons are
not at the time of release or threatened release taxpayers of the village:
      (1)   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is
a release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous material;
      (2)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for the disposal transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any hazardous material;
      (3)   Any person who by contract, agreement or otherwise has arranged
with another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by the person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of the hazardous materials; and
      (4)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities from which there is a
release or a substantial threat of release of the hazardous substances.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in division (A) above,
taxpayers of the village shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs of
removal and remedial action incurred by the village as a result of a release or
threatened release of hazardous material only if:
      (1)   The hazardous material was stored, produced, transported or used in
violation of any federal, state or local statute, regulation or ordinance;
      (2)   Persons as are determined by the Board of the village to have
chronically released or threatened to release the hazardous material: and
      (3)   Persons as are determined by the Board of the village to have been
grossly negligent in the storage, production, transportation, or use of the
hazardous material or the release or threatened release was due to gross
negligence by the persons or by their willful and wanton conduct. For the
purpose of this division (B)(3), taxpayers of the village shall not include any
persons, firms or corporations, who, while engaged in commerce or business for
profit, or for their own account as a part of their own for profit business
operations, by themselves by or through their agents, employees, officers, or
servants, carry and/or transport any hazardous material, as defined herein,
within the village by means of any vehicle, including, but not limited to, a
trust, train, boat, ship, barge, or automobile, whether or not the entity is
otherwise considered a taxpayer of the district.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
§ 98.24 DEFENSES.
   There shall be no liability under §
98.23 for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a preponderance of the
evidence that the release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous
material and the damages resulting therefrom were caused solely by:
   (A)   An act of nature over which he or she had no control;
   (B)   An act of war;
   (C)   An act or omission of a third party, other than his or her employee or
agent, or other than one whose act or omission occurs in connection with a
contractual relationship existing directly or indirectly with him or her
(except where the sole contractual agreement arises from a published tariff and
acceptance for carriage by a common carrier by rail), if it establishes, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that:
      (1)   He or she exercised due care with respect to the hazardous
materials concerned, taking into consideration the characteristics of the
hazardous material, in light of all relevant facts and circumstances; and
      (2)   He or she took precautions against foreseeable acts or omissions or
any third party and the consequences that could foreseeably result from the
acts or omissions.
   (D)   Any combination of the foregoing.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
§ 98.25 RELEASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW.
   There shall be no liability under this subchapter for any release permitted
by state or federal law, but only to the extent that the release is made in
accordance with applicable state and federal law, regulations and permit
requirements and the ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
§ 98.26 PUBLIC DUTY IMMUNITY.
   There shall be no liability under this subchapter for damages as a result of
any actions taken or omitted by the response authority, its agents and
employees with respect to an incident creating a danger to public health,
welfare or the environment as a result of any release or threatened release of
a hazardous material including, but not limited to, actions taken or omitted in
the course of rendering:
   (A)   Remedial action or removal under this subchapter;
   (B)   Care, assistance or advice in accordance with this subchapter;
   (C)   Care, assistance or advice in accordance with the National Contingency
Plan pursuant to the “Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act” (42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.);
   (D)   Care, assistance or advice in accordance with the Illinois Emergency
Management Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.); and
   (E)   Care, assistance or advice at the direction of an on-site coordinator
appointed under the National Contingency Plan, the Illinois Emergency
Management Act, any village’s or city’s Emergency Service and Disaster Basic
Plan or by other public health, safety or emergency agency exercising
jurisdiction over the release or threatened release of a hazardous material.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
§ 98.27 CONTRACTUAL INDEMNIFICATION; SUBROGATION.
   (A)   No conveyance, transfer, sale, indemnification, hold harmless or
similar agreement shall be effective to release the owner or operator of any
facility or vessel or any person who may be liable for a release or threat of
release under this subchapter from the liability imposed under this subchapter.
Nothing in this section shall bar any agreement to insure, hold harmless or
indemnify a party to the agreement for any liability under this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section, including the provisions of division (A)
above shall bar a cause of action that an owner or operator or any other person
subject to liability under this subchapter, or a guarantor, has or would have,
by reason of subrogation or otherwise against any person.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who is liable for the release or threatened release
of a hazardous material, as per §§
98.20 through
98.27, who fails without sufficient cause to pay for or provide removal or
remedial action upon or in accordance with a notice and request of the village,
or in accordance with any order of any court having jurisdiction on the matter,
shall be liable to the village for any costs incurred by the village as a
result of the failure to provide or take the removal or remedial action,
together with the cost of any removal or remedial action taken by the village
in accordance with §§
98.20 through
98.27, and all attorneys fees and related legal costs incurred in connection
therewith.
      (2)   In addition, any person shall be guilty of a violation of §§
98.20 through
98.27 and shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $750, for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day on which a
violation occurs or continues. Where a violation is found to be the result of
willful and/or wanton conduct or gross negligence, or the person committing a
violation attempts to evade responsibility hereunder by leaving the scene of
the occurrence or by other means, that person shall be subject to a fine as
provided for above or a fine in an amount equal to three times the costs,
including attorney’s fees and legal costs, for which it is liable under
division (B)(1) above, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Charges for removal or remedial action when rendered by the,
following named entities shall be as follows:
         (a)   When provided by the village:
 
$25 per hour per vehicle
$25 per hour per chief officer
$20 per hour per line officer
$18 per hour per engineer
$16 per hour per paramedic
$12 per hour per firefighter
Replacement costs value for any expended item for the necessary mitigation of
the incident
 
         (b)   When provided by a mutual aid company:
 
$30 per hour per squad company
$30 per hour per engine company
$30 per hour per truck company
$30 per hour per tanker company
$40 per hour per chief officer
$50 per hour per ambulance company
Replacement cost value for any expended item for the necessary mitigation of
the incident
 
         (c)   When provided by Southwest Hazardous Materials Response Team:
 
$100 per hour per response trailer
$75 per hour per decontamination trailer
$65 per hour per foam trailer
$60 per hour per team chief
$50 per hour per sector officers
$45 per hour per team member
Replacement cost value for any expended item for the necessary mitigation of
the incident
 
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-6-1992)
CHAPTER 99: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
99.01   Definition
   
99.02   Fees
   
99.03   Number of permits; hours and signage
   
99.04   Location of sale
   
99.05   Types of items to be sold
   
99.06   Public nuisance
   
99.07   Parking
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Any sale open to the public, conducted from or on a residential
premises for the purpose of the selling of personal property, including but not
limited to, all sales entitled, "garage", "lawn", "attic", "porch," "basement",
"room", "backyard", "patio", "rummage", "estate" or any similar sale. This
definition shall not apply to an event where five or fewer specifically
identified items are held out for sale and all advertisements of the sale
specifically names those items to be sold.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012)
§ 99.02 FEES.
   No person shall hold a garage sale on his or her property without having
first obtained a permit from the village. Garage sale permit applications can
be obtained at the Crestwood Village Hall with the payment of a $5 permit fee.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 NUMBER OF PERMITS; HOURS AND SIGNAGE.
   No more than two garage sale permits shall be issued per calendar year per
dwelling. No garage sale shall last more than three days. No garage sale hours
shall commence before 9:00 a.m. nor extend beyond 6:00 p.m. Signs announcing
the garage sale may be posted no more than three days prior to the sale date
and must be removed within 24 hours after the sale.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 LOCATION OF SALE.
   The items for sale and any other items used in the sale shall be located in
the garage and or driveway of the residence only. No items may be displayed on
the lawn. No sidewalk or public parkway shall be used or obstructed as a result
of a garage sale.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 TYPES OF ITEMS TO BE SOLD.
   The items that may be sold at such a sale are limited to items of personal
property from the household of the residence for which the permit is issued,
including but not limited to household goods, clothing and furnishings which
have been used in the dwelling unit located on the premises where the saie is
conducted. The sale of items purchased with the intention of sale or resale is
prohibited. The sale of food is prohibited.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The individual to whom the permit is issued and the owner or tenant of the
premises on which the sale is conducted shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum on the premises and
parking during all hours of the sale. No such individual shall permit any loud
or boisterous conduct on the premises nor permit vehicles to impede the passage
of traffic on any road or streets in the area of the sate. All such individuals
shall obey the reasonable orders of any member of the Police or Fire Department
of the Village of Crestwood in order to maintain public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.07 PARKING.
   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable
laws and ordinances. The Crestwood Police Department may enforce such temporary
controls to alleviate any special hazards and or congestion created by any
garage sale.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined a minimum
of $50 and a maximum of $500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. In addition a $50 ticket will be issued to cover the cost of sign
removal for signs not removed by the applicant within 24 hours of the permit
expiration.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-5-2012)
CHAPTER 100: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Permit required
   
100.03   Application for permit
   
100.04   Issuance or denial of permit; appeals
   
100.05   Contents of permit; violation of permit conditions
   
100.06   Inspection
   
100.07   Public notice without permit prohibited
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any event of a temporary nature held on public property or on
private property accessible to the public, whether conducted under one or more
managements or independently, with or without admission fee, which, from the
nature of the aggregation, tends to attract attendance, crowds or traffic and
at which more than 50 persons can reasonably be expected to attend. Special
events shall include, but shall not be limited to, any of the following events
meeting the foregoing attendance criteria: carnivals, fairs, farmer's markets,
automobile and motorcycle shows and gatherings, cruise nights, picnics,
fundraisers, athletic contests and exhibitions, travelling theatricals and
other exhibitions, shows and amusements. Special events shall not include any
events conducted by the village.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016)
§ 100.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a special event or knowingly
participate in any special event unless and until a permit to conduct the
special event has been obtained from the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall
issue a permit for a special event upon an applicant's compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit must be made to the Village Clerk at least 30
calendar days prior to the special event. In addition to such information as
the Village Clerk may require, the application shall also include:
   (A)   The name, address, date of birth and telephone number of the
applicant; or, if the applicant is not a natural person, the name, business
address, telephone number and contact person of the applicant;
   (B)   The premises upon which the special event is proposed and the proposed
parking areas and traffic circulation plans for the special event;
   (C)   The proposed dates and hours of operation of the special event,
including the projected set-up and take-down time frames;
   (D)   A detailed description of the special event, including its name, and
the number and types of rides, equipment, stages and attractions to be located,
displayed, operated or maintained at the special event;
   (E)   A non-refundable permit application fee in the amount of $250. The
permit application fee shall be waivable for government and not-for-profit
special events;
   (F)   Proof of general liability insurance of each the applicant and owner
of the property on which the special event will occur covering all operations
contemplated at the special event in amounts of not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence and $2,000,000 general aggregate. Such policy shall be in force and
effect for all days the special event is in operation, including days for set-
up and take-down. The policy must name the village as an insured and shall save
the village harmless from any and all liabilities or causes of action which
might arise by virtue of granting the permit and the operation of the special
event pursuant thereto;
   (G)   A fee in the amount of $1 per projected attendee at the special event
to compensate the village for the cost of assigning police and other personnel
to the special event;
   (H)   The applicant has filed a cash deposit or bond issued by a company
authorized to do business in the State of Illinois in the amount of $2,000
conditioned upon the applicant causing no damage to the public or private
property in the village, and further conditioned upon the fact that the
applicant will remove all dirt, paper, litter, and other debris, generated by
its operations, from the special event premises and adjoining premises upon
completion of its operation in the village. Such cash deposit or bond shall be
returned to the applicant upon certification by the village Services Director
that all conditions of this chapter have been complied with; and
   (I)   Religious organizations and organizations exempt from income taxation
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.,
shall be exempt from the requirements of divisions (E), (G) and (H) of this
section.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016)
§ 100.04 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; APPEALS.
   (A)   Standards for issuance. Upon application to the Village Clerk for a
special event, the Village Clerk shall issue a permit if she or he finds that:
      (1)   The purpose of the special event is lawful;
      (2)   The application complies with all of the requirements of §
100.03 and the applicant has supplied all of the deliverables required by §
100.03;
      (3)   The special event will not interfere with another previously
scheduled special event at the same location or in the immediate surrounding
vicinity; and
      (4)   The Village Clerk determines that the special event will be located
in an area of the village that is suitable for such event, taking into account
such factors as noise, traffic, and anticipated attendance.
   (B)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Upon a denial by the Village Clerk of an application made pursuant
to §
100.03, the applicant may appeal from the determination of the Village Clerk
within five days thereafter to the Board of Trustees and Mayor by filing a
written notice of appeal for hearing by the Board of Trustees and Mayor at
their next regular meeting. Upon the appeal, the Board of Trustees and Mayor
may reverse, affirm or modify in any regard the determination of the Village
Clerk.
      (2)   In the event an application is not filed within the time required
in §
100.03, the applicant may request a waiver of the requirement by the Board of
Trustees and Mayor at their next regular meeting or at a special meeting which
may be called prior thereto by the Board of Trustees and Mayor to consider the
matter, and the Board of Trustees and Mayor, if they find unusual circumstances
and in the exercise of sound discretion, may waive the requirement.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016)
§ 100.05 CONTENTS OF PERMIT; VIOLATION OF PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In each permit, the Village Clerk shall specify:
      (1)   The premises upon which the special event shall occur;
      (2)   The dates upon which the special event shall be held;
      (3)   The hours of operation of the special event; and
      (4)   Other requirements as are found by the Village Clerk to be
reasonably necessary for the protection of persons or property.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly join or participate in any special event
conducted under permit from the Village Clerk in violation of any of the terms
of the permit. Any permit for a special event issued pursuant to this chapter
may be summarily revoked by the Chief of Police at any time when, by reason of
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency, the Chief of Police
determines that the safety of the public or property requires the revocation.
Notice of the action revoking a permit shall be delivered, in writing, to the
permittee by personal service or by certified mail.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016)
§ 100.06 INSPECTION.
   Upon the erection of all rides, equipment, stages and attractions to be
located, displayed or maintained at the special event (collectively for
purposes of this section, "structures" and each a "structure"), the applicant
shall notify the village Services Director, who shall make an on-site
inspection of each structure. No structure shall be operated or used until it
has been inspected by the Services Director and the Services Director has
indicated in writing that the structure reasonably appears to be in a safe and
operable condition. Any defect discovered by the Services Director will be
immediately corrected by the applicant prior to using such structure. Use of a
structure without approval shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of
the permit by the Services Director.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.07 PUBLIC NOTICE WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause public notice to be given of the holding of a special
event without first having obtained a permit to hold such special event.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provisions of §§
100.02,
100.06 or
100.07 of this chapter shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2330, passed 10-6-2016)
CHAPTER 101: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
101.01   Declaration of policy; administration
   
101.02   Construction
   
101.03   Definitions
   
101.04   Exemptions
   
101.05   Discriminatory terms
   
101.06   Advertisements, signs and notices
   
101.07   Multiple-listing services
   
101.08   Steering
   
101.09   Panic peddling
   
101.10   Aiding or obstructing
   
101.11   Other discriminatory acts
   
101.12   Lending
§ 101.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village to provide,
within constitutional limitations, for fair housing throughout the village, to
assure that all persons have full and equal opportunity to consider all
available housing and obtain fair and adequate housing for themselves and their
families within the village without discrimination because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, disability,
parental status, sexual orientation, source of income, military discharge
status, gender identity, retaliation or housing status or by aiding/abetting or
willful interference thereof and to promote a stable community.
   (B)   It is hereby further declared to be the policy of the village to
undertake all actions necessary and proper to achieve the policy expressed in
this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the housing administrator to receive
and investigate complaints charging unlawful discriminatory and unfair housing
practices and to endeavor, by conciliation, to resolve any such complaints by
acting as a bridge between the parties to the dispute.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and
policies stated herein.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more persons,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or rental and on which any such
building, structure, or portion thereof may be constructed or located.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, savings and loan association, insurance
company, or other organization regularly engaged in the business of lending
money or guaranteeing loans for profit.
   MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any building or structure, or group of
buildings or structures, which contains two or more dwellings under common
management or ownership.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or shares of, or
holds any beneficial interest in, a dwelling or who holds legal or equitable
title to, or shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any organization
or person which owns a dwelling; and his agent.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers or fiduciaries.
   PURCHASE. To obtain a dwelling through a sale.
   RENT OR RENTAL. To lease, sublease, assign or otherwise grant or obtain the
right to occupy a dwelling not owned by the occupant in return for
consideration, or a contract or option to do any of the foregoing.
   SALE OR SELL. To convey, exchange, transfer or assign legal or equitable
title to, or a beneficial interest in, a dwelling in return for consideration,
or a contract or option to do any of the foregoing.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   The rental of a room or rooms in an owner-occupied single-family
dwelling;
   (B)   A religious organization, or any nonprofit organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
with respect to its limitation of the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the
same religion, or with respect to preference given to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex,
national origin or handicap;
   (C)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than
a commercial purpose, with respect to its limitation of the rental or occupancy
of such lodgings to its members and their guests, or with respect to preference
given to such persons which qualifies as a private club under all state and
federal laws and court decisions.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.05 DISCRIMINATORY TERMS.
   In order to effectuate the policies set forth in this chapter as far as
legislatively possible, it is hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an
unfair housing practice and unlawful for any lending institution or other
person to discriminate against any person in the price, terms, conditions, or
privileges relating to the sale or rental of any dwelling, or in the provision
of facilities, repairs, improvements or services in connections therewith.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.06 ADVERTISEMENTS, SIGNS AND NOTICES.
   In order to effectuate the policies set forth in this chapter as far as
legislatively possible, it is hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an
unfair housing practice and unlawful for any lending institution or other
person to make, publish, print, circulate, issue or display, or cause to be
made, published, printed, circulated, issued, or displayed, any communication,
notice, advertisement, sign, symbol, listing or other writing of any kind, in
connection with the sale or rental of any dwelling, or the financing thereof,
that clearly or likely indicates or expresses any preference, limitation,
reliance, or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, ancestry, age, marital status, disability, parental status, sexual
orientation, source of income, military discharge status, gender identity,
retaliation or housing status or by aiding/abetting or willful interference
thereof, or an intention to make such preference, limitation, reliance or
discrimination.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.07 MULTIPLE-LISTING SERVICES.
   In order to effectuate the policies set forth in this chapter as far as
legislatively possible, it is hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an
unfair housing practice and unlawful for any lending institution or other
person to discriminate against any person by denying access to, or membership
or participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate agents'
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or discriminate against any person in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.08 STEERING.
   In order to effectuate the policies set forth in this chapter as far as
legislatively possible, it is hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an
unfair housing practice and unlawful for any lending institution or other
person to, for profit, use any word, phrase or action in connection with the
sale or rental of a dwelling which influences or is intended to influence the
choice of a prospective purchaser or renter solely or in part because of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status,
disability, parental status, sexual orientation, source of income, military
discharge status, gender identity, retaliation or housing status or by aiding/
abetting or willful interference thereof; or for profit, otherwise induce or
attempt to induce, or deter or attempt to deter, the inspection, purchase or
rental of any dwelling by representations regarding the presence in, proximity
to, or entry or prospective entry into, the block, neighborhood or area of a
person or persons of a particular race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
ancestry, age, marital status, disability, parental status, sexual orientation,
source of income, military discharge status, gender identity, retaliation or
housing status or by aiding/abetting or willful interference thereof.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.09 PANIC PEDDLING.
   In order to effectuate the policies set forth in this chapter as far as
legislatively possible, it is hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an
unfair housing practice and unlawful for any lending institution or other
person to, for profit, induce or attempt to induce the sale, rental or listing
for sale or rental of any dwelling by representations regarding the presence
in, proximity to, or entry or prospective entry into, the block, neighborhood
or area of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, disability, parental status,
sexual orientation, source of income, military discharge status, gender
identity, retaliation or housing status or by aiding/abetting or willful
interference thereof.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.10 AIDING OR OBSTRUCTING.
   In order to effectuate the policies set forth in this chapter as far as
legislatively possible, it is hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an
unfair housing practice and unlawful for any lending institution or other
person to aid, abet, compel, coerce, or attempt the commission of any act
declared to be unlawful under this section; or obstruct or prevent enforcement
of, or compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.11 OTHER DISCRIMINATORY ACTS.
   In order to effectuate the policies set forth in this chapter as far as
legislatively possible, it is hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an
unfair housing practice and unlawful for any lending institution or other
person to discriminate by engaging in any other action which makes unavailable,
or restricts consideration of, the inspection, purchase, sale or rental of any
dwelling.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
§ 101.12 LENDING.
   It is also hereby declared to be a discriminatory act, an unfair housing
practice and unlawful for any lending institution to discriminate against any
person in connection with borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting a deed in trust or mortgage, or otherwise obtaining or making
available funds for the purchase, construction, improvement, repair, or
maintenance of any dwelling; or discriminate by delaying the processing of or
denying such loan or other financial assistance; or discriminate the fixing of
the amount, interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan
or other financial assistance; or discriminate on the basis that a dwelling is
located in a particular geographic area.
(Ord. 2564, passed 7-16-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   COMMERCIAL LICENSE CODE
      
111.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
112.   LIQUOR CONTROL; FOOD
      
113.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
114.   AMUSEMENT DEVICES, RAFFLES AND THE LIKE
      
115.   CONTRACTORS AND BUILDERS
      
116.   CATCH BASIN CLEANERS
      
117.   COMMERCIAL CAKE AND CANDY MAKERS
      
118.   VETERINARY HOSPITALS
      
119.   TAXICABS
      
120.   TOBACCO
      
121.   MONEY ORDER VENDING MACHINES
      
122.   PAWNBROKERS AND SECOND HAND PROPERTY PURCHASERS
      
123.   ADULT USES
      
124.   CATALYTIC CONVERTERS
      
125.   NURSING HOMES; SHELTERED CARE HOMES; HOMES FOR THE AGED
      
126.   CONFLICTS WITH CERTAIN HOME RULE ORDINANCES OF COOK COUNTY
      
127.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: COMMERCIAL LICENSE CODE
Section
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Purpose and jurisdiction
   
110.03   Licenses required
   
110.04   Power to grant or revoke licenses
   
110.05   Restrictions on issuance of licenses
   
110.06   Application for license; investigation; issuance
   
110.07   Inspections and analyses
   
110.08   Term of license
   
110.09   License fees
   
110.10   Conditions of license
   
110.11   Record of licenses kept
   
110.12   Location
   
110.13   Appeals
   
110.14   License fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 110.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Commercial License Code of the Village
of Crestwood”.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION.
   Because each commercial establishment located in the village and the conduct
of certain trades and occupations are a basic part of and affect the physical
and economic well-being of the village necessitating special services from the
village in the form of fire, health and police inspections and services, the
commercial establishments, trades and occupations shall, in all respects, be in
full compliance with the provisions contained in this chapter. This chapter is
designed to provide for the means whereby the village may render the necessary
inspections and services to commercial establishments, commercial areas, trades
and occupations in order to promote, protect and safeguard the public safety,
health and welfare of the citizens of the village and to enable the effecting
of an accurate record of commercial establishments, trades and occupations
located and carrying on commercial activities or commerce within the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
commercial establishment, business and/or commercial enterprise or activities
as enumerated in §
110.14, or as otherwise provided herein, without having first obtained a
license therefor.
   (A)   Procurement of license prior to the commencement of operations. All
commercial establishments so required to obtain a commercial license by this
chapter shall obtain such license prior to opening for business or operations
in the village.
   (B)   Renewal of license. All licenses shall be subject to renewal on
January 1 of each year. All licensed businesses shall re-apply and pay required
renewal fees prior to December 1 of the prior year for such succeeding year.
   (C)   Late fees for failure to comply. The following late fees shall be
payable for the failure to procure a license as herein required:
      (1)   Failure to procure license prior to opening. A late fee equal to
the license fee shall be payable.
      (2)   Failure to renew. A late fee equal to $50 shall be payable if
renewal occurs within ten days after the required renewal date of December 1.
Thereafter, such late fee shall be equal to the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 2224, passed 5-7-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 POWER TO GRANT OR REVOKE LICENSES.
   (A)   In all cases where licenses are required to be procured, the license
shall be granted by the Mayor and attested by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Mayor shall also have the power to revoke or suspend any license
so granted for any violation of any law relating to the license or to the
business or occupation licensed, including, but not limited to, manner in which
the business is conducted or for any violations of the terms or conditions upon
which the license was granted.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 110.05 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   No license for the operation of a commercial establishment in the village
shall be issued if one or more of the following conditions are determined by
the Mayor, or such other officer as may be designated by the Mayor, to exist:
   (A)   The building or premises of the commercial establishment does not
comply with the provisions and terms of the Building Code, Zoning Ordinance,
fire regulations, health regulations or any ordinances and regulations of the
village;
   (B)   The building or premises of the commercial establishment is in a
condition of being unsanitary or unsafe so as to endanger the public safety,
health or welfare; and/or
   (C)   The owner of the commercial establishment or the legal entity
comprising the commercial establishment is indebted to the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Written application for a license shall be made to the Village Clerk,
in each case, upon blanks furnished by him or her, except where otherwise
specifically provided for, and a new application shall be made upon the
expiration of any license issued before a new license shall be issued. On
receipt of the application, if the Mayor requires an investigation, the Village
Clerk shall, at once, proceed to make an investigation of the applicant as is
required by the Mayor or shall transmit the application to the proper
department for investigation. If the report recommends the granting of the
license, the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant, and upon payment of the
license fee and filing of a bond in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, when a bond is required, the Village Clerk, when authorized to do so
by the Mayor, shall issue to the applicant a license bearing the seal of the
village for a period for which payment is made.
   (B)   All licenses authorized to be issued and required to be procured by
this chapter, which are granted by the Mayor, shall be issued by the Village
Clerk upon instruction or direction from the Mayor so to do.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 110.07 INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   Initial inspection. Prior to the original issuance of a license as
provided in §
110.06, the building and/or premises for the proposed commercial operation
shall be inspected by the Village Health Inspector and Fire Department Fire
Protection Officer. Within seven days after the inspections, the Village Health
Inspector and Fire Department Fire Protection Officer shall each file separate
reports with the Mayor and a duplicate copy with the Village Clerk reciting the
date of inspection and findings as to the compliance or lack of compliance with
the village health regulations and fire regulations, respectively. The
inspections referred to herein shall be made within seven days after a copy of
the application for license is delivered to the aforesaid inspectors by the
Village Clerk and the Village Clerk is directed to deliver the copy to each
inspector within seven days from the date of filing by the applicant.
   (B)   Periodic inspections. After issuance of a commercial license, the
Village Health Inspector and Fire Department Fire Protection Officer shall make
regular inspections, no less than once each calendar year, of the building and/
or premises operated for commercial uses as to the compliance with village
health and fire regulations, respectively, and within seven days after the
inspections, each inspector shall file separate reports with the Mayor and a
duplicate copy with the Village Clerk reciting the results of the inspections.
   (C)   Entry powers. Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in
connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are
reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance provision or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person
in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of
making the inspection any officer or employee of the village authorized or
directed to make inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
   (D)   Analyses. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is
reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the village
whose business or occupation is governed by the provision to give any
authorized officer or employee of the village requesting the same sufficient
reasonable samples of the material or commodity for the analysis upon request.
   (E)   Resisting inspections. In addition to any other penalty which may be
provided, the Mayor may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any
licensed business or occupation in the village who refuses to permit any
officer or employee who is authorized to make the inspection or take the sample
of the commodity or who interferes with the officer or employee while in the
performance of his or her duty in making the inspection; provided that, no
license shall be revoked for cause unless written demand is made upon the
licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the village,
stating that the inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to
make the inspection or to obtain the sample.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 110.08 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Subject to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the Village Clerk shall
cause to be issued a license to permit the operation of the commercial
establishment or conduct of specified trade or occupation in the village for a
period of one license year which shall begin on January 1 of the year for which
the license is issued and shall terminate on December 31 of the year.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 110.09 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Payment of fees. The required fee for each license issued shall be
collected in full at the time of the issuance and delivery thereof. In no event
shall any rebate or refund be made of any license fee, or part thereof, by
reason of the death of the licensee or by any reason of non-use of the license
or discontinuance of the operation of the commercial establishment, trade or
occupation.
   (B)   Persons conducting more than one occupation. In the event any person
is engaged in more than one activity listed in §
110.14 in the same establishment, he or she shall pay a license fee on the main
activity conducted at the establishment; provided, however, that, this shall
not apply to license fees for cigars, cigarettes and tobacco; however, a full
license fee shall be paid on the latter.
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall the sale of liquor be considered an
additional or incidental activity, and in all cases where liquor is served or
sold, the full liquor license fees, as provided for by ordinance, shall be
paid.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall the sale or dispensing of prepared
food be considered an additional or incidental activity, and in all cases where
prepared food is served or sold, the full license fee shall be paid.
      (3)   Under no circumstances shall the operation of a currency exchange
be considered an additional or incidental activity, and in all cases where a
currency exchange is operated, the full license fee for currency exchanges as
provided herein shall be paid.
   (C)   Disposition of fees. Unless expressly provided to the contrary, all
license fees shall become a part of the General Corporate Fund.
   (D)   Persons operating a business that sells any form of Delta-9, Delta-
8 or any tetrahydrocannabinol or tetrahydrocannabinol-derived product. In the
event the village grants a license to see Delta-9, Delta-8 or any
tetrahydrocannabinol or tetrahydrocannabinol-derived product to a business,
along with meeting all other commercial business requirements, the business
shall be assessed an annual fee of $10,000 to maintain their license.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 2775, passed 5-15-2025)
§ 110.10 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Display of license. Subject to the terms and provisions of this
chapter, upon payment in full of the required license fee to the village, the
village shall issue a license tag or sticker or certificate or similar evidence
of license which shall be displayed by the owner of the commercial
establishment in a conspicuous place. The evidence of license shall bear the
signature of the Mayor and Village Clerk.
   (B)   Transfer of license; fee. No license granted under this chapter shall
be assigned or transferred, except as hereinafter provided, nor shall any
license authorize any person to do business or act under it other than the
person named therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10)
§ 110.11 RECORD OF LICENSES KEPT.
   The Village Clerk, or other officer as may be designated by the Mayor, shall
cause to be maintained a record of all commercial establishments and commercial
licenses as, from time to time, may be deemed necessary for the purpose of
classifying, inspecting, serving and licensing all commercial establishments
and other activities in the village as enumerated in §
110.14.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11)
§ 110.12 LOCATION.
   (A)   License limited to one location. No license for the operation of a
commercial establishment in the village shall be construed by any person to
permit the operation of a commercial establishment in more than one location.
For the purposes of this chapter, one location shall be construed to mean that
all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses are connected or on
the same lot or parcel or are operated and managed by the same person or owner
and constitute a commercial establishment with the same classification.
   (B)   Change of location. The location of any licensed business or
occupation may be changed; provided, ten-days’ notice thereof is given to the
Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided further
that, all requirements of this chapter are complied with unless the business
requires a special use permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12)
§ 110.13 APPEALS.
   (A)   Mayor’s statement filed.
      (1)   In the event the Mayor refuses or denies an application for
license, he or she shall state his or her reasons for the refusal or denial, in
writing, and file a copy of same with the Village Clerk:
         (a)   Within 14 days after the date of the Mayor’s receipt from the
Village Clerk of the subject application for license, exclusive of Saturdays,
Sundays, election days and legal holidays; or
         (b)   On the date of the next regular meeting of the Village Board of
Trustees following the date of the Mayor’s receipt of the subject application,
whichever date is later.
      (2)   In the event a license is revoked or suspended by the Mayor, the
Mayor shall file a written statement of the revocation or suspension with the
Village Clerk within 48 hours after the order of revocation or suspension.
   (B)   Appeal filed. In the event an application for a license is refused or
denied by the Mayor or a license is revoked or suspended by the Mayor, the
applicant or licensee therefor may appeal to the Board of Trustees and shall be
entitled to a hearing upon the refusal, denial, suspension or revocation. The
appeal shall be filed by the applicant or licensee with the Village Clerk
within 21 days after the filing with the Village Clerk by the Mayor aforesaid
of his or her refusal, denial, suspension or revocation.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall conduct a hearing, upon the appeal by
the applicant or licensee, within 14 days after the appeal shall have been
filed with the Village Clerk. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the
applicant or licensee no less than two days prior to the date of hearing.
      (2)   At the time of the hearing, the Board of Trustees shall consider
the order of refusal, denial, suspension or revocation issued by the Mayor and
any evidence submitted by him or her or in his or her behalf pertaining to same
and any evidence produced by the applicant or licensee upon the issue of the
qualification, or lack thereof, of the applicant or licensee to a license as
provided by this chapter and all other applicable provisions of the ordinances
of the village.
      (3)   Prior to the commencement of any hearing on appeal aforesaid, the
Board of Trustees may adopt rules of procedure pertaining to the conduct of the
hearing.
   (D)   Decision of the Board; review.
      (1)   Within seven days after the completion of the hearing, the Board of
Trustees shall issue its decision determining whether the license constituting
the subject matter of the appeal shall be issued or reinstated. The decision
shall be by majority vote of the Board of Trustees. In the event of a tie vote,
the order of the Mayor shall be sustained.
      (2)   In the event the decision of the Board of Trustees is for issuance
or reinstatement of the license, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Village
Clerk, in writing, to issue or reinstate same, and the Village Clerk,
immediately upon receipt of the written decision and direction, shall issue or
reinstate the license.
      (3)   The decision of the Board of Trustees upon the appeal shall be
subject to review pursuant to the provisions of the “Administrative Review Act”
of the state, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13)
(Ord. 1051, passed 11-5-1987)
§ 110.14 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fees for licenses issued for the conduct of the following
businesses, occupations and trades, the sale of the following items or the
maintenance of the following machines shall be computed as follows:
License Fee
License                                 Fee
Automatic vending machines, including   $10 each
automatic food vending machines
Adult use club or establishment         $15,000
(flat fee regardless of size)
Adult uses as regulated by              $1,500
Chapter 123
Building contractors
(A) Carpenters, concrete or cement
contractors, masons, electricians,      $25
plumbers, roofers and all other         $100
building trade contractors other than
general contractors
(B) General contractors
Businesses in the village occupying     $100
2,500 square feet or less
Businesses in the village occupying
more than 2,500 square feet and less    $200
than 7,500 square feet
Businesses in the village occupying     $500
7,500 or more square feet
Cigar, cigarette and tobacco counters   $15
Cigar, cigarette and tobacco machines   $25 each
Ice dealers, ice cube stations, ice
vending machines, per vehicle, station  $15
or machine
Juke boxes                              $25 each
Liquefied gas storage (each gallon of   0.5¢
storage within each tank)
Mechanical amusement devices, including
marble machines, pinball games, skill
ball, shooting galleries and mechanical $25 per machine
grab machines, but not including video
computer amusement devices which are
regulated by Chapter 114
Motels or hotels                        $25 base fee; $25 additional fee for
                                        each unit
Peddlers, solicitors and canvassers     $25
required to register under Chapter 113
Petroleum and liquefied asphalt
products storage (each gallon of        0.5¢
storage within each tank)
Prepared food dispensers and snack      $25 each dispenser or location
concessions
Scavengers                              $500
                                        $1,000 base fee for each license; $25
Video computer amusement devices        additional fee for each computer
(A) Locations with nine or more video   amusement device
computer amusement devices              $50 base fee for each license location;
(B) Locations with less than nine video $125 additional fee for each video
computer amusement devices              computer amusement device (in addition
                                        to any other licenses required under
                                        this section)
All other businesses, occupations and   $1
trades conducted within the village
 
(Ord. 2112, passed 4-4-2013; Ord. 2134, passed 11-7-2013; Ord. 2165, passed 6-
5-2014; Ord. 2169, passed 6-19-2014; Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this title shall be fined not more
than $750 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-14)
(Ord. 511, passed 3-21-1974; Ord. 614, passed 8-5-1976; Ord. 732, passed 5-3-
1979; Ord. 897, passed 12-2-1982; Ord. 898, passed 12-2-1982; Ord. 1070, passed
5-5-1988; Ord. 1167, passed 2-1-1990; Ord. 1208, passed 9-20-1990)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
111.01   Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
111.02   Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
111.03   Hotel Accommodations Tax
   
111.04   Foreign fire insurance companies
   
111.05   Theater admissions tax
   
111.06   Municipal retailers’/service occupation taxes
   
111.07   Municipal cannabis retailers’ occupation tax
   
111.08   Grocery service occupation tax
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 111.01 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail at the rate of 1% of
the gross receipts from the sales made in the course of the business, in
accordance with the provisions of state statutes.
   (B)   Report required. Every person engaged in the business shall file, on
or before the fifteenth day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 3 of “An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption”, approved 6-28-1933, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act
120, as amended, and shall file a duplicate of the report with the Clerk.
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 111.02 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
village in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the
cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by the servicer either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.4.
   (B)   Report required. Every supplier or servicer required to account for
village service occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by § 9 of the “Service Occupation Tax Act”, approved 7-10-
1961, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9, as amended.
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 111.03 HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX.
   (A)   Title. Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14, this section shall be
known and cited as the “Crestwood Hotel Accommodations Tax Ordinance” and the
tax imposed herein shall be known and cited as the “Hotel Accommodations Tax”.
   (B)   Rules, regulations and definitions. The Village of Crestwood may
promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter concerning enforcement and application of this chapter. The phrase
"rules and regulations" includes, but is not limited to, case-by-case
determination of whether or not the tax imposed by this chapter applies.
      (1)   In this section, unless the text otherwise requires, words in the
singular number include the plural and the plural include the singular; words
of the masculine gender include the feminine and the neuter; and when the sense
so indicates, words in the neuter gender may refer to any gender.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         FACILITATOR. Any person or entity who provides a means through which a
person may book a hotel room and/or transient occupancy rental unit to lessees,
regardless of whether payment is transferred through or processed by such
facilitator. Facilitators are considered lessors, as used herein.
         GROSS RENT. The total amount of consideration for occupancy, valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash,
credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, including but not
limited to, amounts charged for the making, booking, facilitating or servicing
of reservations. GROSS RENT means both: (a) the "net rate" paid to the hotel or
motel by a facilitator for room occupancy by the consumer; and (b) the amount
retained by the facilitator for travel-related services provided to the
consumer (sometimes referred to as a "facilitation fee"), and any additional
amounts retained by the facilitator as compensation for its services to the
consumer for the individual transaction, or, in the instance of a consumer's
direct rental of a room with the hotel or motel, gross rent shall mean the
amount charged by the hotel or motel directly to the consumer for the occupancy
of the room.
         HOTEL. A structure kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held
out to the public to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment, home, lodging house,
dormitory or place where sleeping, rooming, office, conference or exhibition
accommodations are furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals.
For avoidance of doubt, transient occupancy rental units are hotels under this
definition.
         HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS. A room or rooms in any building or structure
kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to the public to be an
inn, motel, hotel, apartment hotel, lodging house, dormitory or place where
sleeping, rooming, conference or exhibition accommodations are furnished for
lease or rent, whether with or without meals. The term HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS
does not include an accommodation a person occupies as his or her domicile and
permanent residence.
         LESSEE. Any person who pays for the privilege of occupying all or part
of a hotel.
         LESSOR. Any person having a sufficient proprietary interest in
conducting the operation of a hotel, or receiving the consideration for the
rental of all or part of such hotel, so as to entitle such person to all or a
portion of the net receipts thereof, including facilitators, as defined herein.
         ONLINE TRAVEL COMPANY. An organization that books, reserves, or rents
hotel or motel rooms and makes other travel arrangements for consumers via the
World Wide Web, internet or other digital means. Online travel companies are
considered facilitators, as used herein.
         PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who has occupied or has the right to
occupy all or part of a Hotel for more than 30 consecutive days.
         PERSON. Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, co-
partnership, joint venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign
corporation, association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting
as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise,
whenever the term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty, the term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part-
owners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the offices thereof, or any
other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties.
         TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY RENTAL UNIT. A dwelling unit or a habitable unit
that is offered, in whole or in part, for rent, lease or hire that is rented,
leased or hired for which a lessor receives consideration from a person for a
period of 30 days or less and that person has the right to use, occupy or
possess all or part of the dwelling unit or habitable unit for said period.
         TREASURER. The Treasurer of the village.
         VILLAGE. The Village of Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois.
   (C)   Hotel use tax imposed.
      (1)   There is levied and imposed a tax of 5% of the gross rent charged
for the privilege and use of renting a hotel room within the village for each
24-hour period or any portion thereof for which a room charge is made.
      (2)   Accommodations within said buildings or structures which are leased
to the same occupant for a period of more than 30 consecutive days shall be
exempt from the tax provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Lessors renting or leasing hotel rooms within the village are
required to collect the hotel use tax; however, the ultimate incidence of any
liability for payment of the tax is to be borne by the lessee.
      (4)   The hotel use tax shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of every lessor of every hotel within the
village to separately state such tax at the 5% rate upon the total amount of
compensation charged for the use of the hotel. The lessor shall also state
separately the amount of tax on the invoice for the transaction that will be
tendered to the lessee.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of every lessor of every hotel within the
village to collect the tax from the lessee at the time the lessee pays for the
privilege of occupying all or part of a hotel transient occupancy rental unit,
and to remit to the village the tax under procedures provided for in this
chapter or otherwise prescribed by the village. If more than one person is the
lessor as related to a particular transaction, the lessors are jointly and
severally responsible for collecting and remitting the tax.
      (7)   It shall not be a defense to this chapter that the lessor is not
licensed by the village to rent hotels and the lessor will still be required to
remit the proper tax to the village.
      (8)   All funds collected by the village under this tax shall be expended
solely to promote tourism and conventions within the village or otherwise to
attract nonresident overnight visitors to the municipality. No funds received
under this tax shall be used to advertise for or otherwise promote new
competition in the hotel business within the village.
   (D)   Tax borne by lessee. The ultimate incidence of and liability for
payment of the tax shall be borne by the hotel owner, manager or operator of
the hotel accommodations. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and
all other taxes. The hotel owner, manager or operator may reimburse themselves
for their tax liability for the tax by charging the lessee or tenant of the
hotel accommodations, by separately stating the tax as an additional charge on
the lessee’s or tenant’s statement of charges. It shall be the duty of every
owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations to secure the tax from the
lessee or tenant of the hotel accommodations, and pay over to the Treasurer the
tax under rules and regulations prescribed by the Treasurer and as otherwise
provided by this section.
   (E)   Collection of tax. The tax herein levied shall be secured by the hotel
owner, manager or operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price,
charge or rent to which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be given a
bill, invoice, receipt or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge or
rent payable upon which the hotel accommodations tax shall be stated, charged
and shown separately. The hotel accommodations tax shall be paid to the
Treasurer, or the authorized representative of his or her office, on a monthly
basis. The tax shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the succeeding
month.
   (F)   Transmittal of tax revenue.
      (1)   The lessor of each hotel within the village shall file returns and
remit collected taxes, to the Village Finance Department showing tax receipts
received with respect to each hotel during each monthly period commencing on
(date), and continuing on the first day of every month thereafter on forms
prescribed by the village. The return shall be due on or before the last day of
the each month succeeding the end of the monthly filing period. Each lessor
shall file an application with the village for a village taxpayer
identification number prior to filing its first tax return.
      (2)   The first taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall
commence on September 1, 2020 and the tax return and payment for such period
shall be due on or before the monthly remittance deadline. Thereafter,
reporting periods and tax payments shall be in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. At the time of filing such tax returns, the owner shall pay to
the village all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (G)   Late payment and penalties.
      (1)   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made
to the village for the tax imposed by this chapter shall be considered late
unless it is: (a) received by the village on or before the due date imposed by
this chapter; or (b) received via a method consistent with the current
established standards of filing and payment determined by the village.
      (2)   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and
owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid
within the time frame otherwise indicated.
      (3)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to
be assessed on a late payment, underpayment or non-payment of the tax, to be 2%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
      (4)   Late filing and payment penalties.
         (a)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided
by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of 2% of the amount of
tax required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late
payment penalty of 2% of the tax due shall be imposed.
         (b)   If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 2% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed.
         (c)   A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to
file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   (H)   Suspension or revocation of license. If the Mayor, after a hearing
held by or for him or her, shall find that any person has willfully avoided
payment of the tax imposed by this section, he or she may suspend or revoke all
village licenses held by the tax evader. The owner, manager or operator of the
hotel accommodations shall have an opportunity to be heard. The hearing shall
not be held less than five days after notice of the time and place of the
hearing, addressed to the owner, manager or operator at his or her last known
place of business. The suspension or revocation of any license shall not
release or discharge the owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations
from his civil liability for the payment of the tax, nor for prosecution of the
offense.
   (I)   Proceeds. All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under
this section, including penalties, shall be distributed within 30 days after
collection as follows.
      (1)   Ninety five percent of 1% of the gross tax revenue collected shall
be paid to the Southland Convention and Visitors Bureau, Chicago, for the sole
purpose of promoting tourism and conventions.
      (2)   The excess over 95% of 1% of the gross tax revenue collected shall
be retained by the village.
      (3)   In the event the village increases the tax collected pursuant to
division (C) above, Southland Convention and Visitors Bureau, Chicago, shall
only be entitled to 95% of 1% of the gross tax revenue collected.
   (J)   Severability. If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph or part of
this section, or application thereof to any person, firm, corporation, public
agency or circumstance, shall for any reason, be adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, the judgment shall
not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this section and the
application of the provision to other persons, firms, corporations, public
agencies or circumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the
provision, clause, sentence, paragraph or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which the judgment shall have been rendered and to the person,
firm, corporation, public agency or circumstances involved. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent of the Village Board of Trustees that
this section would have been adopted had an unconstitutional or invalid
provision, clause, sentence, paragraph or part thereof not been included.
   (K)   Time of effect. This section shall be in full force and effect as of
July 1, 2014.
   (L)   Other actions authorized. The officers, employees and/or agents of the
village shall take all action necessary or reasonably required to carry out,
give effect to and consummate the amendments contemplated by this chapter and
shall take all action necessary in conformity therewith. The officers,
employees and/or agents of the village are specifically authorized and directed
to draft and disseminate any and all necessary forms to be utilized in
connection with these amendments. Any and all actions previously performed by
officials, employees and/or agents of the village in connection with carrying
out and consummating the intent of this chapter are hereby authorized, approved
and ratified by this reference.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 1338, passed 7-1-1993; Ord. 2144, passed 2-6-2014;
Ord. 2530, passed 11-7-2019; Ord. 2561, passed 7-16-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Compliance with provisions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any corporation, company or association,
not incorporated under the laws of the state to engage in the village in
effecting fire insurance or to transact any business of fire insurance in the
village while in default by not fully complying with any of the requirements of
this section and until the requirements shall have been fully complied with,
but this provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or association
from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of this
section.
      (2)   No insurance agent in the village shall have any insurance business
or dealings with any company, association or corporation, not incorporated
under the laws of the state, which shall be in default for not reporting or
making payments as hereinbefore provided, until it shall have complied with all
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Fee. Any such corporation, company or association, not incorporated
under the laws of the state, which is engaged in the village in effecting fire
insurance shall pay the Village Clerk, for the maintenance, use and benefit of
the Fire Department of the District, a sum of money equal in amount to 2% per
annum of the gross receipts received as premiums upon fire insurance policies
by any and all agents of the corporation, company or association during the
year ending on July 1 of each year for any insurance effected or agreed to be
effected on property located in the village by or with the corporation, company
or association during the year.
   (C)   Report required; payment of fee. Every person acting in the village as
agent for or on behalf of any such corporation, company or association shall,
on or before July 15 of each and every year, render the Village Clerk a full,
true and just account, verified by his or her oath, of all premiums upon fire
insurance policies which, during the year ending July 1 preceding such report,
shall have been received by him or her, or by some other person for him or her,
in behalf of any such corporation, company or association on property located
in the village. The agent shall, also, at the time of rendering the aforesaid
report, pay to the Village Clerk the sum of money for which each company,
corporation or association represented by him or her is chargeable, by virtue
of the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Collection of fee. The sum of money for which such company,
corporation or association is so chargeable may be recovered of it, or its
agents or agent, by an action in the name of and for the use of the village as
for money had and received. Nothing in this division (D) shall be held to
exempt any person, corporation, company or association from indictment and
conviction under the provisions of an act entitled “An Act to Enable Cities,
Towns, Villages and Fire Protection Districts, Organized under Any General or
Special Law to Levy and Collect a Tax or License Fee from Foreign Fire
Insurance Companies for the Benefit of Organized Fire Departments”, in force 7-
1-1895, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Foreign fire insurance company fees, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,§§ 11-10-1 et
seq.
§ 111.05 THEATER ADMISSIONS TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMISSION.  The sale of a ticket or allowance of entry of any person for
a fee charged or monetary consideration.
      AMUSEMENTS. Any live theater or movie theater.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation, or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator, or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      TAX COLLECTOR. A person engaged in the business of operating a movie
theater, or live theater within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Imposition of tax.
      (1)   A tax is imposed upon all adult persons over the age of 12 years
old seeking admission to any amusement within the corporate limits of the
village of $0.60 per admission after May 7, 2015.
      (2)   On or before each April 20, July 20, October 20, and January 20,
each tax collector shall make a quarterly return to the Village Collector for
the preceding quarter, and make remittance of tax therewith stating the
following information:
         (a)   The tax collector’s name;
         (b)   The address of the tax collector’s principal place of business
in the village;
         (c)   The number of admitees to the tax collector theater;
         (d)   The amount of tax computed on division (B)(2)(c) above;
         (e)   Other reasonable information that the collector may require.
      (3)   In making the return, the taxpayer shall determine the value of
actual consideration other than money received by the tax collector. This
determination shall be subject to review and revision by the collector as
provided in division (C) for correction of returns.
   (C)   Return corrections. If the Village Collector has reason to believe and
does believe that any return is incorrect, after notice to the tax collector
and an opportunity to be heard, the collector shall determine the amount of the
tax according to his or her best judgment and information. Any return so
corrected by the Collector shall be prima facie correct.
   (D)   Rules and regulations. The Village Collector is authorized to
prescribe reasonable rules and regulations relating to the administration and
enforcement of this section as he or she may deem expedient.
   (E)   Failure to make return.
      (1)   In case any tax collector fails to make a return when and as
required by this section, the Village Collector, after notice to the taxpayer
and an opportunity to be heard, shall determine the amount of the tax according
to his or her best judgment and information. This amount, when so fixed, shall
be prima facie correct.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing provisions of division (E)(1) above,
the failure to submit a return as required by this section by a tax collector
shall be deemed to be an offense which shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500. Each and every day that the person fails to file a return shall be
deemed to constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1391, passed 6-2-1994; Ord. 2223, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 111.06 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’/SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES.
   (A)   Imposition of taxes.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled and registered with any agency of this state’s government, at
retail in the village at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales
made in the course of such business while this section is in effect; and a tax
is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village in the business of
making sales of service, at the rate of 1% of the selling price of all tangible
personal property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to the sale of
a service. This non-home rule municipal retailers’ occupation tax and this non-
home rule municipal service occupation tax shall not be applicable to the sales
of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it
is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been
prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and non-prescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
      (2)   The imposition of these non-home rule taxes is in accordance with
and subject to the provisions of §§ 8-11-1.1, 8-11-1.2, 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4
of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-11-1.1, 8-11-1.2, 8-
11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4).
   (B)   Administration. The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that
may be assess as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue shall
have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2225, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 111.07 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of § 8-
11-23 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-23) upon all
persons engaged in the business of selling cannabis at retail in the village,
at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from the sales made in the course of
that business.
      (2)   This tax does not apply to cannabis purchased under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
      (3)   This tax is in addition to all other taxes and fees imposed by the
village and State of Illinois.
   (B)   Tax collection.
      (1)   The tax imposed by this section and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident of the tax shall be collected and enforced by the
Illinois Department of Revenue.
      (2)   Persons subject to any tax imposed under this section may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
(Ord. 2736, passed 9-19-2024; Ord. 2741, passed 11-7-2024)
§ 111.08 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Municipal grocery retailers’ occupation tax imposed. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in the Village of Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of § 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-24).
   (B)   Municipal grocery service occupation tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in the Village of Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in division (B) above. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of §
8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8- 11-24).
   (C)   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Clerk to file ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue. As
required under § 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
8-11-24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of Ord. 2753
with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before October 1, 2025.
   (E)   Effective date. The taxes imposed by this section shall take effect on
the later of: (i) January 1,2026; (ii) the first day of July next following the
adoption and filing of Ord. 2753 with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or
before the preceding April 1; or (iii) the first day of January next following
the adoption and filing of Ord. 2753 with the Department of Revenue, if filed
on or before the preceding October 1.
(Ord. 2753, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting
or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of
the provisions of §
111.03, except when otherwise specifically provided, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $50, nor more than $300, for the first offense, and not
less than $200, nor more than $500, for the second and each subsequent offense
on any 180-day period. Provided, however, all actions seeking the imposition of
fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions
of the State Civil Practice Act (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.).
REPEATED OFFENSES, which shall be defined as the fourth or more offense within
any 180-day period, may also be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration
for a term not to exceed six months under the procedure set forth in the State
Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1), and under the provisions of the
State Code of Criminal Procedure (Ch. 725, Act 5, §§ 100-1 et seq.). A separate
and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which each
person shall continue any violations.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
111.04 shall be fined in a sum not more than $750 for any one offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
(Ord. 1338, passed 7-1-1993; Ord. 2144, passed 2-6-2014)
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR CONTROL; FOOD
Section
Outdoor Patio Dining and Beverage Areas
   
112.01   Permit required
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Permit fee; year
   
112.04   Application
   
112.05   Conditions
Retail Liquor Establishments
   
112.20   Purpose
   
112.21   Definitions
   
112.22   Exceptions
   
112.23   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
112.24   License required; food service
   
112.25   Licenses; classes and fees; limitation on number
   
112.26   Payment of fees
   
112.27   Initial license expense
   
112.28   Application for license
   
112.29   Bond and forfeiture
   
112.30   Investigations, rejection or approval of applications for license
   
112.31   Renewals of license
   
112.32   Posting licenses and warnings
   
112.33   Persons ineligible for license
   
112.34   Opening and closing hours
   
112.35   License limitations
   
112.36   Retail sales prohibited in certain areas
   
112.37   Sale or discontinuance of business; continuation of license
   
112.38   Changes of location, personnel and the like
   
112.39   Peddling prohibited
   
112.40   Sanitary conditions
   
112.41   Conduct of licensee
   
112.42   Sales to persons under 21, habitual drunkards and the like
   
112.43   Parental responsibility
   
112.44   Evidence of age required
   
112.45   Revocation of license; notice; hearing
   
112.46   Complaint of violation; hearing
   
112.47   Licenses of permits previously issued
   
112.48   Prohibited sale or promotion of alcoholic beverages
   
112.49   Wine sampling and tasting
   
112.50   Storage of liquor
   
112.51   Recovery of costs for hearings before the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Sale or consumption of alcohol prohibited at sexually orientated businesses,
see §
123.04
OUTDOOR PATIO DINING AND BEVERAGE AREAS
§ 112.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereafter keep, maintain, conduct or operate any outdoor
patio dining and beverage area without first obtaining a permit therefore and a
separate underlying liquor license.
(Ord. 1927, passed 6-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR DINING AND BEVERAGE AREA. An open area not centrally heated or air
conditioned where food and alcoholic beverages are served or consumed.
(Ord. 1927, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 112.03 PERMIT FEE; YEAR.
   The annual fee for an outdoor patio dining and beverage area permit shall be
$200 in addition to the required underlying liquor license of the business. The
outdoor patio dining and beverage area license becomes effective April 1 and
shall terminate on the earlier of November 1 next following the issuance of the
same or the termination of the underlying liquor license pertaining to the
business.
(Ord. 1927, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for an outdoor patio dining and beverage area permit shall
be made to the Village Clerk and may be granted, upon approval by the Mayor as
Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No establishment with outdoor patio dining
and beverage area shall be permitted within 100 feet of land zoned for
residential purposes. The permit shall be posted conspicuously in the
establishment at all times it shall be in use.
   (B)   Denial of an application and supervision or revocation of a permit may
be appealed to the Board of Trustees comparable to the appeal procedure
pertaining to alcoholic beverages licenses, as stated in §§
112.20 through
112.50 and in the pertinent provisions thereof.
(Ord. 1927, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 112.05 CONDITIONS.
   No outdoor patio dining and beverage area establishment shall be permitted,
maintained or operated, except in conformity with the following regulations.
   (A)   The establishment shall maintain, in full force, an underlying liquor
license.
   (B)   The outdoor patio dining and beverage area shall be particularly
described and adjacent to, and operated as part of, premises licensed to sell
beer, malt or alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
   (C)   Outdoor patio dining and beverage areas may only be operated at the
street level of any bar or restaurant.
   (D)   No outdoor patio and dining areas may be operated after the maximum
serving time permitted under the underlying liquor license, or 11:00 p.m each
day, whichever is earlier. Canopies and other temporary structures shall comply
with all applicable codes and ordinances, and shall be installed no earlier
than April 1 and shall be fully removed no later than November 1. Tents are not
permitted by code.
   (E)   Outdoor patio dining and beverage service areas shall be limited to
one person for each ten square feet of area and shall have separately posted
the maximum capacity.
   (F)   At any part of the outdoor patio dining and beverage area not blocked
by a building, there shall be maintained or constructed a fence six feet high
surrounding the outdoor patio dining and beverage area in the rear and side
yards, and a fence four feet high surrounding the outdoor patio dining and
beverage area in the front yard. The fence shall contain the required fire exit
or exits. Each gate or exit shall swing to egress, shall be equipped with
proper hardware and shall swing free and clear of public sidewalks. The outdoor
patio dining and beverage area fence shall comply with all village ordinances
regarding fence construction materials and regulations, including vision
clearance and required distances from corners.
   (G)   All electrical wiring shall comply with the Village Electrical Code.
   (H)   All combustible rubbish shall be stored in noncombustible covered
containers.
   (I)   No music shall be permitted in the outdoor patio dining and beverage
area.
   (J)   The noise emanating from any outdoor patio dining and beverage area
shall not violate any of the regulations of the village pertaining to noise and
shall not reach a level to unduly disturb neighbors.
   (K)   The alcoholic beverage licensee, or his, her or its agents, shall be
responsible for preventing violations of this section.
(Ord. 1927, passed 6-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
RETAIL LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall be construed so that the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the village shall be promoted by the reasonable and necessary
regulation of the sale and consumption of alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owing, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of the extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided that, the club files with the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this subchapter
two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten days of the election of any additional member his or her name
and address; and, provided further that, its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent
or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the
form of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale
of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of a salary as may be fixed and voted
at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other
governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   CONSUMPTION SALES. The sale or offering for sale of retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which five or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of the guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to the guests, the sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings, structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   PACKAGE SALES. The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor
in the original package and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or
in part on the premises where sold.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, club, association or corporation.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, for a
consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL or SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for resale in
any form.
   SERVICE OF FOOD. The service of meals, for consumption only on the premises
in an adequate and sanitary kitchen as defined in any appropriate health or
food service ordinance of the village. The meals must consist of more than the
service or sale of packaged foods such as potato chips, pretzels, peanuts,
cheese and crackers, or frozen or pre-made foods, such as pizzas, hamburgers or
sandwiches which can be prepared by being heated or warmed in an oven. And, the
meals must be actually and regularly served and eaten at tables and not only at
a bar or counter.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substances in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and the liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5%,
or less, of alcohol by volume, nor shall the provisions of this subchapter
apply to flavoring extracts, concentrates, syrups or medicinal, mechanical,
scientific, culinary or toilet preparations, or food products unfit for
beverage purposes, but the provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed
to exclude or not apply to alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture,
preparation or compounding of the products. The provisions of this subchapter
shall not apply to wine intended for use or used by any church or religious
organization for sacramental purposes, nor shall anything herein contained
prevent any duly licensed, practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using any alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession or
any hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased persons from
possessing alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients of the
hospital or other institution or prevent any licensed pharmacist from
possessing and using alcoholic liquors in the preparation of prescriptions
prepared by duly licensed physicians.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.23 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Mayor act as. The Mayor of the village shall be the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner of the village and shall be charged with the
administration of this subchapter. He or she may designate one or more persons
to assist him or her in the exercise of the duties as he or she may deem
necessary. The compensation of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be
fixed by ordinance adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have
the following powers, functions and duties:
      (1)   To grant, suspend for not more than 30 days, or revoke for cause,
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, all local licenses issued
to persons for premises within his or her jurisdiction;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer or peace
officer to enter at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder, to determine
whether any of the provisions of this section or any rules or regulations
adopted by him or her or by any other agency having the authority to do so have
been or are being violated, and at the time of the entry to examine the
premises in connection therewith;
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen that any of the provisions
of this section, or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto, or any
other applicable rules or regulations, have been or are being violated and to
act upon the complaints in the manner hereinafter provided;
      (4)   To deny any application for the issuance or renewal of a license to
an applicant he or she has determined to be ineligible therefore; and
      (5)   To examine, or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation of suspension has been served in the manner hereinafter provided,
and to examine or cause to be examined, the books and records of any applicant
or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his or her information in the
performance of his or her duties, and for the purpose to issue subpoenas which
shall be effective in any part of this state. For the purpose of obtaining any
of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this
section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her behalf.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.24 LICENSE REQUIRED; FOOD SERVICE.
   (A)   No person within the corporate limits of the village shall sell or
offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor without first having obtained, as
herein and hereafter provided, a license.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for:
      (1)   Each place of business or location wherein alcoholic liquor shall
be sold or offered for sale, and for each separate building (should there be
more than one building at a location) wherein alcoholic liquor shall be sold or
offered for sale; and
      (2)   Each separate location within the same place of business or
premises regardless of the class of license, as set out in §
112.25, required for each location.
   (C)   However, no person shall sell or offer for sale at retail any
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises unless the sale or offer to
sell is incidental and complimentary to the service of food, as defined in §
112.21; provided, however, that, the requirement of this section shall not be
applicable to a Class B, D, F, or I license. No license to sell or offer for
sale at retail any alcoholic liquor, other than a Class J license, shall be
issued to any person whose place of business is an “adult use” as defined in §
123.03 of the Village Code, or whose place of business involves gambling.
However, no license holder of a Class J license shall allow patrons to consume
alcoholic beverages of any kind on the premises unless such consumption is
incidental and complimentary to the service of food, as defined in §
112.21. The qualifications for issuance of a Class J license holder and
resident manager shall be the same as all other liquor license holders as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 2083, passed 6-7-2012; Ord. 2185, passed 8-
21-2014) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.25 LICENSES; CLASSES AND FEES; LIMITATION ON NUMBER.
   Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be of the following
classes.
   (A)   Class “A” license. A Class “A” license shall entitle the licensee to
make sales at retail of alcoholic liquor from the premises specified for use or
consumption on or off the premises where sold. The license fee for a Class “A”
license shall be $1,000 per annum. No more than 42 licenses of this class shall
be issued and in effect at any time.
   (B)   Class “B” license. A Class “B” license shall entitle the licensee to
make package sales at retail of alcoholic liquor for use and consumption off
the premises or surrounding area of the premises where sold. The license fee
for a Class “B” license shall be $700 per annum. No more than seven licenses of
this class shall be issued and in effect at any time.
   (C)   Class “C” license. A Class “C” license shall entitle the licensee to
make sales at retail of wine and beer only from the premises specified for use
or consumption solely and only on the premises where sold. The license fee for
a Class “C” license shall be $800 per annum. No more than three licenses of
this class shall be issued and in effect at any time.
   (D)   Class “D” license. A Class “D” license shall entitle the licensee to
make package sales at retail of beer and wine only for use and consumption off
the premises where sold. The license fee for a Class “D” license shall be $700
per annum. No more than one license of this class shall be issued and in effect
at any time.
   (E)   Class “E” license. A Class “E” license shall be issued only to a club
and shall entitle the club licensee to make sales at retail of alcoholic liquor
for use or consumption on the premises only of the club. The license fee for a
Class “E” license shall be $700 per annum. There shall be issued no Class “E”
license to be in effect at any time.
   (F)   Class “F” license. 
      (1)   A Class “F” license shall be a temporary permit for the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor at any banquet, picnic, bazaar, fair or similar
assembly where food or drink is sold, served or dispensed. Such temporary
permit shall be issued only to an organized church, society, fraternal or
benevolent organization organized or conducted not for pecuniary profit, or to
the business employed or engaged to cater said event, provided said business is
currently licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail within the village. Such
temporary permits shall not permit the sale of any alcoholic liquors in any
place where the sale thereof is prohibited by law or by ordinance of the
village. Such permits shall be issued for a specific location. There shall be
no fee for such temporary permits, and said permits shall permit the licensee
to sell at retail said alcoholic liquors for a period of one week, the week to
be designated by dates in the license. There shall be no Class “F” licenses to
be in effect at this time.
      (2)   Every application for a Class “F” license shall be accompanied by a
certificate of insurance issued by a company or companies acceptable to the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner evidencing the existence of the following
policies of insurance:
         (a)   Liquor liability insurance in accordance with the Dram Shop Act
of the State of Illinois with minimum limits of $100,000 bodily injury, one
person; $300,000 bodily injury, one occurrence; $100,000 loss of means of
support; and $100,000 property damage; and
         (b)   A comprehensive general liability policy of insurance with
minimum limits of $250,000 bodily injury and property damage, as per person and
per occurrence.
   (G)   Class “G” license, athletic field. A Class “G” license shall entitle
the licensee to make sales at retail for consumption by the drink only on the
licensed premises provided the licensee shall provide or cause to be provided
dram shop liability insurance overage in the insurance coverage limits as
provided by statute so as to save and hold harmless the village and licensee
from all financial loss, damage or harm arising from the operation pursuant to
the Class “G” license. The license fee for a Class “G” license shall be $1,000
per annum. No licenses of this classification shall be in effect at this time.
   (H)   Class “H” license, microbrewery and full service. A Class “H” license
shall entitle the licensee to manufacture beer products on the licensed
premises and to make sales at retail of alcoholic liquor, including, but not
limited, to the manufactured beer products, for consumption on or off the
licensed premises. Nothing in the issuance of a Class “H” license pursuant to
this section shall be considered to relieve the licensee of any responsibility
for complying with all applicable state and federal regulations relating to the
manufacture and/or sale of beer products or other alcoholic beverages, and all
applicable business and other regulations of the village. The license fee for a
Class “H” license shall be $900 per annum. There shall be no Class “H” licenses
issued and in effect at any time.
   (I)   Class “I” license, theater. A Class “I” license shall be issued to a
movie theater. The license fee for a Class “I” license shall be $700 per annum.
There shall be no more than one Class “I” license issued and in effect at any
time.
   (J)   (1)   Class “J” license, restaurant BYOB license. No commercial
person, facility, place of public or private accommodation shall allow
alcoholic drinks for public consumption of any kind to be carried into a
commercial establishment, restaurant, business or other place of public
accommodation for consumption without having a BYOB Class “J” license. A Class
“J” license shall entitle the licensee, strictly restricted to a RESTAURANT, as
defined by ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.23, as amended from time to time, that
does not sell alcoholic liquor, to permit consumption of alcoholic liquor or
alcoholic beverages of any kind brought onto the premises of the restaurant by
a patron of 21 years of age or older for personal consumption, including
consumption of their dining guest(s) who are 21 years of age or older, while
the patron and dining guest(s) are being served a complete meal in the
restaurant, subject to the conditions of this division. The consumption of
alcoholic liquor or alcoholic beverages of any kind is restricted to the
licensed premises of the Class “J” license holder. The restaurant may charge a
corkage fee to the patron. No more than one 750 ml bottle of wine per patron,
or no more than 36 ounces of beer per patron (unopened), or no more than one
pint of spirits or any other type of alcoholic liquor or alcoholic beverage per
patron shall be permitted to be brought into the premises. The sale of beer,
wine, spirits and all other types of alcoholic liquor or alcoholic beverages to
patrons of the licensed premises shall be prohibited. No package sales shall be
permitted. The sale of beer, wine, spirits and all other alcoholic liquor or
alcoholic beverages (e.g., wine coolers, prepared mixed drinks, and the like)
in single cans or bottles, kegs or pitchers or any other form is prohibited.
Patrons are prohibited from taking any opened alcoholic liquor or alcoholic
beverage outside of the premises, except for a re-corked wine bottle that has
been sealed in a carry-out bag in accordance with state law, ILCS Ch. 235, Act
5, § 6-33. The licensee, on site manager(s), or their BASSET-trained wait staff
shall be responsible for opening the alcoholic liquor or alcoholic beverage of
any kind, including but not limited to, bottles or containers brought into the
licensed premises by patrons, and may provide glasses to patrons as part of the
servicing of alcoholic liquors or alcoholic beverages of any kind to patrons.
The license fee for a Class “J” license shall be $2,900 per annum. There shall
be no Class "J" licenses issued and in effect at this time.
      (2)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to Class “J”
licenses.
         FOOD. Food that is prepared on the premises and serviced on the
premises for either lunch or dinner, excluding snacks.   
         PERSON. Any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, or other entity recognized under state law.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 1955, passed 3-20-2008; Ord. 2047, passed
5-19-2011; Ord. 2047, passed 5-19-2011; Ord. 2056, passed 9-15-11; Ord. 2060,
passed 11-3-2011; Ord. 2071, passed 2-2-2012; Ord. 2078, passed 4-19-2012; Ord.
2082, passed 6-7-2012; Ord. 2083, passed 6-7-2012; Ord. 2089, passed 8-2-2012;
Ord. 2093, passed 11-15-2012; Ord. 2133, passed 11-7-2013; Ord. 2107, passed 2-
21-2013; Ord. 2138, passed 12-5-2013; Ord. 2148, passed 3-6-2014; Ord. 2168,
passed 6-19-2014; Ord. 2177, passed 7-17-2014; Ord. 2185, passed 8-21-2014;
Ord. 2198, passed 11-20-2014; Ord. 2216, passed 3-19-2015; Ord. 2237, passed 7-
23-2015; Ord. 2240, passed 8-20-2015; Ord. 2249, passed 9-17-2015; Ord. 2259,
passed 10-22-2015; Ord. 2281, passed 1-28-2016; Ord. 2282, passed 2-18-2016;
Ord. 2286, passed 3-3-2016; Ord. 2291, passed 3-17-2016; Ord. 2294, passed 4-7-
2016; Ord. 2299, passed 4-21-2016; Ord. 2303, passed 5-5-2016; Ord. 2308,
passed 5-19-2016; Ord. 2312, passed 6-9-2016; Ord. 2315, passed 6-23- 2016;
Ord. 2321, passed 8-18-2016; Ord. 2327, passed 9-21-2016; Ord. 2331, passed 11-
17-2016; Ord. 2343, passed 2-9-2017; Ord. 2376, 8-17-2017; Ord. 2382, passed
10-19-2017; Ord. 2393, passed 11-22-2017; Ord. 2408, passed 1-18-2018; Ord.
2417, passed 3-15-2018; Ord. 2432, passed 6-7-2018; Ord. 2500, passed 6-6-2019;
Ord. 2517, passed 9-5-2019; Ord. 2544, passed 2-6-2020; Ord. 2560, passed 6-28-
2020; Ord. 2603, passed 8-19-2021; Ord. 2611, passed 10-7-2021; Ord. 2648,
passed 6-2-2022; Ord. 2677, passed 3-16-2023; Ord. 2690, passed 8-17-2023; Ord.
2719, passed 5-16-2024; Ord. 2763, passed 3-20-2025)
§ 112.26 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   All license fees and initial license expense shall be payable in advance,
and at the time the application for the license is made. Every license shall
expire on December 31 following its issuance, except the Class F license which
shall expire on the date therein specified. Subject to the initial license
expense required under §
112.27, if application is made after January 1 in any year for a new retail
liquor license, the sum required to be paid for the license for the balance of
the license year shall bear the same ratio to the sum required for the full
year that the number of months remaining, including the month of the
application, bears to the whole number of months in the license year, but in no
instance shall the adjusted license fee be less than one-half of the total
applicable license fee. All fees shall be paid to the office of the Mayor. In
the event a license is not issued, any license fees paid with an application,
except the initial license expense as required in §
112.27, shall be refunded to an applicant. All license fees collected by the
Mayor shall be forthwith paid to the Village Treasurer and the Mayor shall keep
a record of all licenses issued.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.27 INITIAL LICENSE EXPENSE.
   In connection with the first application of any person applying for a
license under this subchapter (whether or not the issuance of the license would
require an amendatory ordinance authorizing an increase in the number of Class
A, Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E and Class J licenses authorized to be
issued), the person shall pay at the time of the application a non-refundable
initial license expense of $300, in addition to the license fees required in
this chapter. The initial license expense shall be for the purpose of defraying
any and all costs that the village may incur as a result of the consideration
and investigations of the application. The initial license expense shall be
retained by the village, regardless of whether or not the person is granted a
license.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 2185, passed 8-21-2014)
§ 112.28 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in the business of selling alcoholic
liquor at retail shall make application for a license in writing on forms
furnished by the village. A separate application for each place of business
shall be made and filed with the Mayor. Each applicant shall furnish under oath
or affidavit the following information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and respective addresses of the officers and directors;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license;
      (4)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application and
the disposition of the application;
      (5)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this subchapter, laws of the state or the ordinances of the
village;
      (6)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor;
      (7)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of his or her place of business;
      (8)   The class of license desired by the applicant;
      (9)   Whether applicant owns the premises for which a license is sought,
and if he or she does not, the name of his or her landlord and the period of
his or her lease, a complete and correct copy of the lease is to be attached to
the application;
      (10)   Whether or not the applicant intends to manage and conduct the
business in person and, if not, the name of the manager or agent who is to
conduct the business to be carried on the premises for which the license is
sought; and
      (11)   In addition to the foregoing information, the application shall
contain other information as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may by rule
or regulation prescribe.
   (B)   In case the application is made by a partnership, all partners must
sign the application and the information required by this section shall be
furnished as to each partner.
   (C)   In case the applicant is a corporation, the application shall be
signed by the president and secretary of the corporation.
   (D)   Every application for a license, whether new or renewal, where the
real estate title of the premises is in a trustee, shall be accompanied by the
land trustee or a beneficiary of the trust, disclosing the names, residence
addresses and beneficial interest of each beneficiary as required by state law.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.29 BOND AND FORFEITURE.
   (A)   Each person desiring a license under this subchapter shall execute and
submit with his or her application for the license a penal bond in the sum of
$2,000 with a corporate bonding company authorized to do business in the state
as surety thereon, the bond to name the village as obligee and to be
conditioned upon the true and faithful compliance by the licensee with all the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If a licensee shall be convicted of the violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or his or her license shall be suspended for not
more than 30 days, as herein provided, or revoked and no appeal is taken from
the order of suspension or revocation or any appeal taken therefrom is decided
adversely to the licensee, the bond required to be posted hereunder shall
thereupon be forfeited and the amount of the bond and costs thereon shall
become due and payable to the village.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.30 INVESTIGATIONS, REJECTION OR APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All applications for license under this subchapter shall be delivered
to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. It shall be the duty of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner to investigate and consider the application. For
this purpose, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may enlist the aid of the
Chief of Police and any other village officials or employees that he or she
deems necessary to complete the investigation.
   (B)   Upon completion of the investigation, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall approve or disapprove of the issuance of a license based on
the application.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.31 RENEWALS OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under the provisions hereof shall extend beyond April 30
following the issuance thereof unless the same shall be renewed upon the filing
of an application for the renewal thereof and the approval of the renewal in
the manner provided in this section. Applications for the renewal of licenses
shall be filed with the Mayor’s office on or before 1-10-1979 and, thereafter,
at least 20 days before April 30 preceding the expiration thereof. The
application for renewal shall be made under oath and shall be upon an
application blank prepared and furnished by the village. Each application for
renewal shall be treated and considered in the same manner as hereinabove
provided for original applications for license.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 2133, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 112.32 POSTING LICENSES AND WARNINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Every licensee shall cause his or her license or licenses to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises
not later than April 30 of each year for the next following year.
      (2)   Every licensee shall post or cause to be posted in plain view, at
every location where alcoholic liquor is sold, a printed sign which shall read
substantially as follows:
         “WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS
      You are subject to a fine up to $750 under the ordinances of the Village
of Crestwood if you purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor, or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor.”
      (3)   The text of the signs shall be in red letters on a white background
and the letters of “warning to persons under the age of 21 years” shall be at
least one inch high.
   (B)   Every holder of a retail license, whether the licensee sells or offers
for sale alcoholic liquors for use or consumption on or off the retail license
premises shall cause a sign with the message “GOVERNMENT WARNING: ACCORDING TO
THE SURGEON GENERAL, WOMEN SHOULD NOT DRINK ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING
PREGNANCY BECAUSE OF THE RISK OF BIRTH DEFECTS” to be framed and hung in plain
view. These signs shall be no larger than eight and one-half inches by 11
inches.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 2133, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 112.33 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village or the county in which
the premises covered by the license are located;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the State Liquor Control Commission determines that the person has
been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering
matters set forth in the person’s application and the Commission’s
investigation;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this subchapter or state statute
has been revoked for cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 50% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in the co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the village;
   (K)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the “Business Corporation Act of
1983” to transact business in the state;
   (L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this Act or has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any violation;
   (N)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
   (O)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commission, any mayor, alderperson or member of the city council or
commission, any president of the village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or distribution
of alcoholic liquor, except that license may be granted to the official in
relation to premises which are not located within the territory subject to the
jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of the license is approved by the
State Liquor Control Commission;
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of State Criminal Code of 1961 § 28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), being ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), as prescribed by §§ 28-1.1 or 28-3,
being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1.1 or 28-3, or as prescribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions; and
   (R)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the “Raffles Act” or the “State Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act”.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.34 OPENING AND CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at retail, or to give
away, in or upon any Class A, Class E, Class H, and Class I licensee’s
premises, any alcoholic liquor:
      (1)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday (except for December 25 and January 1); nor
      (2)   Between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any Saturday,
Sunday, December 25 and January 1.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at retail, or to give
away, in or upon any Class B, Class D, Class F and Class G licensed premises,
any alcoholic liquor between the hours of12:01 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at retail, or to
give away, in or upon any Class C licensed premises, any beer or wine between
the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
      (2)   In the event the premises remain open after the prohibited hours to
conduct business other than the sale of alcoholic liquor, then, during a period
of one hour after the prohibited hours for the sale of alcoholic liquor, no
person, licensee, agent or employee of any licensee shall be present or
permitted behind any bar, counter or table where alcoholic liquor is sold,
dispensed or given away. After the prohibited hours for the sale of alcoholic
liquor, every person on the premises of any licensee who has a license to sell
alcoholic liquor, shall have 20 minutes to consume any alcoholic liquor that
has been served to them before closing hours. During this time there shall be
allowed only one drink per person of any alcoholic liquor. After this 20-minute
period, it shall be the responsibility of the licensee to clear all tables,
bars or counters of any alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, for special events and
occasions, permit a licensee, upon written application of the licensee, to sell
or offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquor during the aforesaid prohibited
hours, provided that the privilege shall at no time permit any licensee to sell
or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor between:
         (a)   The hours of 4:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on week days; and
         (b)   The hours of 4:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on Sundays.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a holder of a Class J license, as defined in
§
112.25(J), to permit patrons to consume alcoholic liquor in the village between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, between the hours of 3:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Saturdays, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 11:00
a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 1990, passed 8-20-2009; Ord. 2083, passed
6-7-2012; Ord. 2185, passed 8-21-2014) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35 LICENSE LIMITATIONS.
   Any license issued hereunder shall be purely a personal privilege to expire
not later than December 31 next after the issuance unless sooner revoked as
provided in this subchapter and the license shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, nor shall it be
subject to be encumbered or hypothecated. The license shall not descend by the
laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease and terminate upon
the death of the licensee. The license shall also cease and terminate upon the
insolvency or bankruptcy of any licensee; provided, however, that, the executor
or administrator of the estate of any deceased licensee or the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when the estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale at retail of the alcoholic liquor
under order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the
deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of the decedent or
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of the license, but no longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of the license.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.36 RETAIL SALES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church; school other than an institution of
higher learning; hospital; home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans,
their wives, husbands or children; or any military or naval station; provided
that, this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where
sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if the
place of business so exempted shall have been established for the purposes
prior to the taking effect of this section, nor to the renewal of a license for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet of any
church or school where the church or school has been established within 100
feet since the issuance of the original license. In all the cases enumerated in
this section, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured from the nearest part
of any building and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for the
minors.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.37 SALE OR DISCONTINUANCE OF BUSINESS; CONTINUATION OF LICENSE.
   In the event any licensee shall sell the business or discontinue operation
for a period of more than 30 days (except closings for remodeling and repairs),
or any partnership or corporation shall be dissolved, the license shall
terminate forthwith. Except however, other than in the case of the termination
of a partnership or the dissolution of a corporation, a licensee may continue
the license in full force and effect; provided that, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner is notified by the licensee within 40 days from the date of the
sale of the business or its discontinuance of a desire to maintain the license,
and the licensee otherwise complies with all applicable provisions of this
subchapter and designates a location within the village acceptable to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner as the address or location of the license.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.38 CHANGES OF LOCATION, PERSONNEL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   A retail liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
in the premises described in the application and license. The locations may be
changed only upon the written application to make the change and approval
thereof issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location
shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for retail
sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   (1)   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons
holding directly, beneficially or through any form of indirect or concealed
ownership or control, more than 5% of the stock or ownership interest, or
managers of establishments licensed under this subchapter, shall be reported in
writing to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner within ten days of the change.
All new personnel shall meet all the standards of this subchapter and must
otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. All changes in personnel shall be
subject to review by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      (2)   Upon notification of any change in partnership, officers,
directors, persons holding directly, beneficially or through any form of
indirect or concealed ownership or control, more than 5% of the stock or
ownership interest, or managers of establishments licensed under this
subchapter, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, at his or her
discretion, investigate and consider the changes in personnel, to determine
whether they qualify to hold a liquor license. The licensee shall be required
to pay to the village, as and for the investigation, the sum of $500 for each
change in partnerships, officers, directors and persons holding directly,
beneficially or through any form of indirect or concealed ownership or control,
more than 5% of the stock or ownership interest. A licensee shall further be
required to pay the sum of $150 for the investigation of each and every manager
of establishments licensed under this subchapter when a change in personnel
occurs.
      (3)   Upon investigation and review by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, any changes in personnel shall be subject to the following.
         (a)   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, the license shall terminate.
         (b)   When a license has been issued to a corporation and a change
takes place in officers, directors, persons holding directly, beneficially or
through any form of indirect or concealed ownership or control, more than 5% of
the stock or ownership interest, or managers of establishments, to one who is
not eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
         (c)   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
   (C)   (1)   In the event that a corporation holding a liquor license shall
change its name or the name under which it does business in the village, it
shall file an application for change of corporate/business name with the Liquor
Control Commissioner with a fee of $25.
      (2)   In the event that a corporation holding a liquor license shall be
dissolved and a new corporation formed with the same or different officers, the
license held by the dissolved corporation shall be terminated and the new
corporation shall apply for a new liquor license pursuant to this subchapter
and pay the initial license fees. To the extent that the officers of the new
corporation are the same as the officers of the terminated corporation, the
initial license fees established in §
112.27 may be reduced by the Liquor Control Commissioner.
      (3)   In the event that a corporation holding a liquor license is a
subsidiary of a parent corporation and the parent corporation’s officers change
or the parent corporation changes but the corporation holding the liquor
license does not change and its officers do not change, a letter stating the
changes in the parent corporation or its officers shall be filed with the
Liquor Control Commissioner.
      (4)   In the event that, after a change in a corporate parent as set
forth in division (C)(3) above, there is a change of 5% or more of the
corporate officers of the corporation holding the liquor license, the license
shall be terminated, a new application shall be filed and the initial license
fees shall be paid.
   (D)   In the event that a valid liquor license is stolen or destroyed, the
licensee shall submit to the Liquor Control Commissioner an affidavit of loss
and a fee of $15, and a new license, valid for the same activities and time
period as the lost, stolen or destroyed license, shall be issued.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.39 PEDDLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the village.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.40 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of the liquor for sale shall be kept in full compliance with the village
ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of
food for human consumption.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41 CONDUCT OF LICENSEE.
   Every person and club licensed under this subchapter shall be subject to the
following regulations.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to tend
bar and/or draw, pour, open or mix alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises, and it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
dispense, sell or deliver any alcoholic liquor in the original package, bottle
or case for consumption off the premises of any licensed establishment. Except
for the provisions in this section, it shall be lawful for any person 18 years
of age or older to work in a licensed premises and to serve alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   Every licensee shall conduct his or her place of business in a quiet,
decent and respectable manner and shall eject therefrom or refuse admittance
thereto all persons rendering themselves objectionable or undesirable by reason
of undue noise or other acts disturbing the peace.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, officer, associate, member,
agent, representative or employee of the licensee to give or deliver any
alcoholic liquor or intoxicating beverages to a person under the influence of
intoxicating liquor. Soliciting of drinks or prostitution is prohibited.
   (D)   Every licensee, officer, associate, member, agent, representative or
employee of the licensee shall immediately report to the village police any act
by a person or patron rendering himself or herself objectionable, causing undue
noise or disturbance, breach of peace or unusual conduct.
   (E)   No person licensed under the provisions hereof shall suffer any loud
or boisterous talking, or obscene or profane language, quarreling, singing,
fighting or other disturbance of persons passing along any street or public
square in the vicinity thereof or to the disturbance of the peace and quiet of
persons doing business or residing in the neighborhood thereof.
   (F)   All licensees, officers, associates, members, agents, representatives
or employees of the licensee dispensing or serving food or alcoholic liquor
shall be decently clothed. Topless or similar type of attire is prohibited.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while acting as a waiter,
waitress or entertainer to:
      (1)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft,
perineum, anal region or pubic hair region;
      (2)   Expose any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance
of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
      (3)   Expose any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
      (4)   This division (G) shall not apply to Class I licensees exhibiting
films having been classified with a rating of not greater than “R” by the
Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) or similar commercial film
industry organization, or which would otherwise meet such ratings standards
based on its content.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any waiter,
waitress or entertainer to commit any of the unlawful acts in this section. A
person shall be deemed to be a waiter, waitress or entertainer if the person
acts in that capacity without regard to whether or not the person is paid any
compensation by the management of the establishment in which the activity is
performed. This division (H) shall not apply to Class I licensees exhibiting
films having been classified with a rating of not greater than “R” by the
Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) or similar commercial film
industry organization, or which would otherwise meet such ratings standards
based on its content.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier
of, any contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be unlawful
for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any disease to work in or
about any premises or to engage, in any way, in the handling, preparation or
distribution of the liquor.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to suffer or permit any species
of gambling in his or her premises or any part thereof or any place adjacent
thereto under his or her control.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 2083, passed 6-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.42 SALES TO PERSONS UNDER 21, HABITUAL DRUNKARDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, shareholder, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of the licensee shall sell, give or deliver
alcoholic liquor, beer or wine to any intoxicated person or to any person known
by him or her to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill,
mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing
or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver the
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   (B)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of the
alcoholic liquor nor have the alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
   (C)   The possession and dispensing to, or consumption by, a minor of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, is not
prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.43 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, receive or accept
as a gift, nor consume any alcoholic liquor, or have any alcoholic liquor in
his or her possession within the village; provided however, the possession and
dispensing or consumption by a person under the age of 21 years of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony is not prohibited
by this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises located
within the village to allow any person under the age of 21 years to remain on
the premises while in possession of alcoholic liquor or while consuming
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of any person
under the age of 21 years to allow the person to purchase, receive, consume or
possess alcoholic liquor in violation of this section upon either public or
private property within the village.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.44 EVIDENCE OF AGE REQUIRED.
   Each licensee and any officer, shareholder, member, representative, agent or
employee of the licensee shall refuse to sell, deliver or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of 21 years. ADEQUATE
WRITTEN EVIDENCE shall be a document issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not
limited to, a motor vehicle operator’s license or an identification card issued
to a member of the Armed Forces. If a person presents a motor vehicle
operator’s license from a state other than Illinois, a second form of
identification shall be shown. The second form may be a school, library,
employee identification or similar card and must be consistent with the motor
vehicle license shown.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.45 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend for not more than 30
days, or revoke any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter if he or she determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act of the state or the provisions of this
subchapter or any applicable rules or regulations established by the State
Liquor Control Commission or any applicable rules or regulations established by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   No license shall be revoked or suspended except after a public hearing
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with a three-day written notice sent
to the licensee prior to the hearing affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend; provided, however, that, if the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he or
she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for the
conclusion and without notice or hearing order the licensed premises closed for
not more than seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during
that period, except that if the licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct
of another business or businesses on the licensed premises, the order shall not
be applicable to the other business or businesses.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall within ten days after the
hearing, if he or she determines after the hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for the determination in a
written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a copy of the order
within ten days upon the licensee.
   (D)   The licensee, after the receipt of the order of suspension or
revocation shall have the privilege within a period of 20 days after the
receipt of the order of suspension or revocation of appealing the order to the
State Liquor Control Commission and, upon the filing of an appeal by the
licensee, he or she may resume his or her business until the time as the State
Liquor Control Commissioner shall render a decision either sustaining the order
of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or reversing the order.
   (E)   Appeals from the decision of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall be taken to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission in the manner provided
by law. Every review by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission shall be limited
to a review of the official record of the proceedings of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006; Ord. 2254, passed 10-8-2015)
§ 112.46 COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION; HEARING.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner stating that any licensee licensed
hereunder has been or is violating the provisions of the Liquor Control Act of
the state or the provisions of this subchapter or any rules or regulations
issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn
to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular
provision, rule or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in
detail upon which the belief is based. If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and that from
the facts alleged, there is reasonable cause for the belief, he or she shall
set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time
and place of the hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.47 LICENSES AND PERMITS PREVIOUSLY ISSUED.
   All licenses and permits for the sale of alcoholic liquor issued and in
force on the effective date hereof are continued in force for the period and
for the purpose for which they were issued, subject to the regulatory
provisions and conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.48 PROHIBITED SALE OR PROMOTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   All licensees selling alcoholic beverages to be served and consumed on
the licensed premises are prohibited from engaging in any of the following
enumerated practices.
      (1)   No licensee, employee or agent of a licensee shall:
         (a)   Sell, offer or deliver to any person or persons any drinks sold
on the basis of two or more drinks for the price of one drink;
         (b)   Sell, offer or deliver to any person an unlimited number of
drinks during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private
functions not open to the public or full meal (banquet packages) and hors
d’oeuvres packages which are open to the public;
         (c)   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price charged for the drink during the
same calendar week; and/or
         (d)   Encourage or permit any game or contest which involves drinking
or the awarding of drinks as prizes on the licensed premises.
      (2)   No licensee shall advertise or promote in any way, whether within
or without the licensed premises, any of the practices prohibited under this
section.
   (B)   The prohibition contained herein shall not prohibit liquor licensees
from:
      (1)   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      (2)   Including a drink as part of a meal package;
      (3)   Free wine tastings; and/or
      (4)   Offering room services to registered guests in hotels licensed for
the services.
   (C)   Licensees should make nonalcoholic beverages available for purchase by
any person and licensees should make coffee available for purchase by any
person during the licensee’s hours of operation.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.49 WINE SAMPLING AND TASTING.
   (A)   Any Class A, C or Class E licensed retail location may conduct product
sampling for its bona fide customers upon application to the Local Liquor
Commissioner for a product sampling license. A product sampling license shall
authorize the holder to give or sell to bona fide customers up to 12 ounces of
wine a day. Product sampling shall be conducted in an area of the licensed
location that shall not exceed 150 square feet or 10% of the location’s area,
whichever is smaller.
   (B)   A Class B or D licensed retail location with a product sampling
license may conduct group wine tasting events at which a single admission fee
permits customers to taste up to 12 samples of wine over a three-hour period,
each sample not to exceed one ounce.
   (C)   Notwithstanding §
112.24, the service of food shall not be required during product sampling or
group wine tasting events. Other provisions of this subchapter shall be
applicable to product sampling and wine tasting licenses and events.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the phrase BONA FIDE CUSTOMER shall
mean a customer whom the licensee reasonably expects will make a purchase of
wine in the near future.
(Ord. 1899, passed 10-19-2006)
§ 112.50 STORAGE OF LIQUOR.
   The storage of alcoholic beverages of any kind, including but not limited to
the rental of patron liquor lockers, on the premises of a Class J license
holder shall be strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2185, passed 8-21-2014) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.51 RECOVERY OF COSTS FOR HEARINGS BEFORE THE LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL
COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Any licensee determined by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to
have violated any provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5 et seq.), any village ordinance or any rule or regulation
established by the Illinois Liquor Control Commissioner or the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, may, upon conviction, be subject to pay the village the
costs of the hearing on such violation. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall determine the costs incurred by the village for the hearing, including,
but not limited to court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records,
the costs of preparing and mailing notices and orders, attorneys’ fees and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner may allow.
   (B)   The person shall pay said costs to the village within 30 days of
notification of the costs by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. Failure to
pay said costs within 30 days of notification is a violation of this section
and may be cause for license suspension or revocation or the levy of a fine in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
37.08 of this code. If appealed to the State Liquor Commission, payment is due
40 days after entry of an order affirming the decision of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
   (C)   Any assessment of costs or other sum of money imposed on a person
pursuant to an order of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, remaining unpaid
after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures
under the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934 (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5 et seq.)
shall be a debt due and owing to the village and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2451, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
112.01 through
112.05 shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1927, passed 6-7-2007)
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
Solicitors
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Certificate of registration required; application
   
113.03   Restrictions on issuance of certificate
   
113.04   Issuance and revocation of certificate; contents
   
113.05   Records of certificates kept
   
113.06   Village policy on soliciting
   
113.07   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.08   Duty of solicitors
   
113.09   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
113.10   Time limits
   
113.11   Solicitation of contributions
Street Vendors and Peddlers
   
113.25   License required; fee
   
113.26   Vehicle rules and regulations
   
113.27   Donation solicitor permit required; fee
   
113.28   Roadway donation solicitation permit eligibility; terms and conditions
   
113.29   Manner of soliciting donations
   
113.30   Waiver
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
SOLICITORS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, organization, group, association, partnership,
corporation, trust, or any combination thereof.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided and which certificate is in the possession
of the solicitor or his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
dwelling purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building
or structure, including the common areas inside multiple dwelling buildings.
   SOLICITATION. The going upon any premises or to or in one or more private
residences by any person without appointment by personal contact with the
resident or occupant for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale for
profit of goods, books, magazines, or any other article or thing whatsoever, or
for any service, or for the purpose of peddling or hawking any of the same, or
for the purpose of making or requesting appointments or procuring interviews or
arranging for demonstrations or explanations preliminary to any actual
solicitation of orders, selling, peddling or hawking of any of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-1) (Ord. 2477, passed 3-6-2019; Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-
2023)
§ 113.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting, as herein defined, from
persons in residences within the village is hereby required to make written
application for and obtain a certificate of registration prior to engaging in
solicitation within the village.
   (B)   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Village Chief of Police and filed with the Chief. The
applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the
application, as follows:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at the address; also, business address if other than residence
address; also, Social Security number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status, and if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person whom the applicant is employed by or
represents and the length of time of the employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
      (9)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate under this subchapter, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this subchapter ever been revoked;
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States; and
      (13)   Additional information, as the Chief of Police may deem necessary
to process the application.
   (C)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection with the application for certificate shall be under oath.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-2) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.03 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.
   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States within five years of the date
of the application nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter nor to any person whose certificate of
registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-3) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Issuance or denial of certificate. The Chief of Police, after
consideration of the application and all information obtained relative thereto,
shall deny the application if the applicant does not possess the qualifications
for the certificate as herein required, and if the issuance of a certificate of
registration to the applicant would not be in accord with the intent and
purpose of this subchapter. Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police
upon the application of the denial of the application. When the applicant is
found to be fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued
forthwith.
   (B)   Contents. The certificate of registration shall state the expiration
date thereof.
   (C)   Revocation of certificate. Any certificate of registration issued
hereunder shall be revoked by the Chief of Police if the holder of the
certificate is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter or has made a false material statement in the application or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate of
registration under the terms of this subchapter. Immediately upon the
revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the Chief of Police to the
holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his
or her residence address set forth in the application. Immediately upon the
giving of the notice, the certificate of registration shall become null and
void. Revocations may be appealed to the Village Board.
   (D)   Fee. The fee for a certificate of registration shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-4) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.05 RECORDS OF CERTIFICATES KEPT.
   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration
issued under the provisions of this subchapter and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-5) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.06 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the governing body of the village
that the occupant or occupants of the residences in the village shall make the
determination of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their
respective residences.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-6) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.07 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided
by the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions. Notice of the determination by the
occupant of giving invitation to solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to
solicitors, to any residence, shall be given in the following manner: a
weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches in size, shall be
exhibited upon or near the main entrance door of the residence, indicating the
determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words, as follows:
“ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN CRESTWOOD INVITED”
or
“NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   (1)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height.
      (2)   For the purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the
Chief of Police to persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
      (3)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-7) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.08 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any
premises in the village upon which a residence, as herein defined, is located,
to first examine the notice provided for in §
113.07, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
      (2)   If the notice states “Only Solicitors Registered in Crestwood
Invited”, then the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration
as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises,
and if the notice states “No Solicitors Invited”, then the solicitor, whether
registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by
the occupant.
   (C)   Any solicitor seeking entrance to a multi-unit building must obtain
the consent of every resident it solicits. A solicitor may only solicit the
unit for which the solicitor was granted entry.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-8) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.09 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.07.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-9) (Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 TIME LIMITS.
   Solicitation is only permitted within the village on Wednesday and Saturday
from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2477, passed 3-6-2019; Ord. 2668, passed 1-19-2023)
§ 113.11 SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   There is hereby expressly permitted solicitation of contributions from the
occupant of any vehicle or pedestrian on the public rights-of-way within the
Village of Crestwood, except as may otherwise be provided in this section, upon
the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The soliciting agency shall be registered with the Attorney General as
a charitable organization, as provided by “an act to regulate solicitation and
collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof,
and making an appropriation therefor.”
   (B)   Engaged in a fund-raising activity for which a permit has been
obtained from the Village of Crestwood. Said permit shall be issued by the
Village Clerk’s office and limited to 15 fundraising activities each calendar
year, of one or two consecutive days each, limited from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
during that time designated as Central Standard Time or 6:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
during that time designated as Daylight Saving Time. A permit for a two-day
fundraising activity shall be issued only if the second day of that fund
raising activity is a Saturday. Said permit shall be issued by the Clerk on a
first come first served basis. Each agency shall be limited to one permit
annually.
   (C)   Shall furnish to the Village of Crestwood a certificate of insurance
indemnifying the village from any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act or ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agency.
   (D)   Any person engaged in the age of solicitation shall be 16 years of age
or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest at all times during the
solicitation.
   (E)   Solicitation shall be permitted only at intersections where all
traffic is required to come to a full stop.
   (F)   Permits shall be granted to local eleemosynary or religious
organizations or to local chapters of national eleemosynary or religious
organizations which have been in existence for not less than one year.
   (G)   Any violation of this section shall be grounds to deny a permit in the
following year.
(Ord. 2658, passed 10-20-2022)
STREET VENDORS AND PEDDLERS
§ 113.25 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or attempt to sell any commodity
by means of vending a commodity upon any street in the village without first
securing a permit and paying a fee of $25.
(Prior Code, § 3-4B-1) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.26 VEHICLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall be complied with by each person
using a vehicle for street vending.
   (A)   Loudspeakers, sound amplifiers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any street vendor or peddler to sell or
attempt to sell any commodity by means of any outcry, sound, speaker or
amplifier, or any instrument or device which can be heard for a distance
greater than 300 feet or when passing a hospital or a church or other place of
worship during the hours when services are being held.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any vendor or peddler to use, play or
employ the use of any sound, outcry, amplifier, loudspeaker, radio, phonograph
with a loudspeaker or amplifier or any other instrument or device when the
vehicle the vendor or peddler is using is stopped for the purpose of making a
sale.
      (3)   The use by any vendor or peddler of any outcry, sound, amplifier,
loudspeaker, radio, phonograph with a loudspeaker or amplifier or any
instrument or device which emits a loud sound shall be prohibited before the
hour of 12:00 p.m. noon and after the hour of 9:00 p.m. on any day.
   (B)   Other prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any vendor or peddler to:
      (1)   Exceed a speed of 12 mph when cruising neighborhoods seeking sales
or when attempting to make a sale;
      (2)   Stop anywhere within 25 feet of an intersection when making a sale
or attempting to make a sale;
      (3)   Double park or park in any manner contrary to any ordinance
relating to parking when attempting a sale or when making a sale;
      (4)   Make a U turn on any block;
      (5)   Drive his or her vehicle backwards to make or attempt any sale;
and/or
      (6)   Permit any person to hang on the vehicle or permit any person to
ride in or on the vehicle except a bona fide assistant or assistants.
(Prior Code, § 3-4B-2) (Ord. 2000, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.27 DONATION SOLICITOR PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit monetary donations or any
other types of donation near or on any street in the village without first
securing a roadway donation solicitation permit and pay the fee of $25 for the
permit.
(Ord. 2000, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 ROADWAY DONATION SOLICITATION PERMIT ELIGIBILITY; TERMS AND
CONDITIONS.
   All roadway donation solicitation permits are subject to the following terms
and conditions:
   (A)   Each permit shall be valid only on one consecutive Friday and Saturday
per year; provided, however, in the even of inclement weather during any two-
day period, the Village Clerk shall assign the person to whom the permit
applies an alternate two-day period.
   (B)   No person shall be granted more than two permits per calendar year.
   (C)   Only persons exempt from taxation pursuant to IRS Code § 501(c)(3) or
other bona-fide not-for-profit organizations are eligible to apply for and
receive roadway donation solicitations.
   (D)   An entity shall be considered a bona-fide not-for-profit organization
for the purposes of this section if it:
      (1)   It has be chartered, incorporated or otherwise in existence for at
least five years prior to the date the entity make application for a roadway
donation solicitation permit;
      (2)   Does not produce profits or income of any kind for its owners,
founders or organizers; and
      (3)   Has any of the following purposes: charitable, benevolent,
educational, civic, patriotic, political, religious, literary, athletic or
scientific; and
   (E)   At the time of making application for a roadway donation solicitation
permit, applicants must furnish the following materials to the village in forms
and types requested by the village:
      (1)   Proof of the applicant’s tax exempt status or other proof of the
group’s status as a bona-fide not-for-profit organization;
      (2)   Proof of insurance coverage in forms and amounts sufficient to
cover any injuries to personnel of the applicant who would conduct donation
solicitation activities pursuant to the permit.
   (F)   All permits shall be limited to times no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no
later than 7:00 p.m., and shall be granted to the months of April through
November.
(Ord. 2000, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.29 MANNER OF SOLICITING DONATIONS.
   Persons soliciting monetary or other types of donations pursuant to a
roadway donation solicitation permit shall:
   (A)   Remain on a raised median or sidewalk while traffic is not fully
stopped by a traffic light or other traffic control device.
   (B)   Wear articles of clothing with reflective materials sufficient to make
themselves clearly identifiable to passing motorists;
   (C)   Wear or display identification sufficient to alert motorists as to the
identity of the permittee;
   (D)   Not inhibit the flow of traffic or impede any motor vehicles traveling
on any street in the village;
   (E)   Not permit any person under the age of 16 years of age to engage in
the activities permitted pursuant to roadway donation solicitation permits.
(Ord. 2000, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.30 WAIVER.
   Upon good cause shown, the village may waive the permit fee required for
roadway donation solicitation permits.
(Ord. 2000, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
113.01 through
113.09 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$750 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-4A-11)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
113.25 and
113.26 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-4B-3)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
113.25 through
113.29 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 2000, passed 1-7-2010)
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENT DEVICES, RAFFLES AND THE LIKE
Section
Video Gaming Activities
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Application for video gaming required
   
114.03   General provisions
   
114.04   Violation and enforcement
Raffles and Games of Chance
   
114.25   Scope of regulations
   
114.26   Raffles and chances licensing
   
114.27   License restrictions
   
114.28   Denial of license
   
114.29   Raffle regulations
   
114.30   Fidelity bond required
   
114.31   Selling raffle chances
   
114.32   Limitation on value of prize awarded
   
114.33   Certain records to be kept
Bingo Halls
   
114.45   Definitions
   
114.46   License required
   
114.47   General licensing provision to apply
   
114.48   License fee
   
114.49   Compliance with “Bingo License and Tax Act”
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
VIDEO GAMING ACTIVITIES
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. As used in this subchapter of the Code of Crestwood, shall mean the
Video Gaming Act found at 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., as from time to time amended.
   VIDEO COMPUTER AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any electronic video game machine that is
for amusement purposes only and shall not be used for purposes of, or in
connection with, the wagering of money, goods or merchandise upon the outcome
of the use or manipulation of such device, or to otherwise be used for purposes
of gambling. A proprietor, operator or person in charge of a video computer
amusement device may permit free replays to players on the basis of the
player's skill, accumulated score, or any other means, and a machine may record
or indicate free replays; provided, however, no video computer amusement device
shall provide or contain or have attached thereto a "knockoff" device or switch
and at no time, except at the close of the day's business, may such a
proprietor, operator or person eliminate free replays registered and remaining
on any device after use by any person. No evidence of entitlement to
accumulated games or to play any device, nor cash, nor anything of value shall
be given to any person in acknowledgment of or for the accumulation of any
score or replays by any player.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL DEVICE. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 2513, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 114.02 APPLICATION FOR VIDEO GAMING REQUIRED.
   Any establishment within the village which is licensed to sell alcoholic
liquor and has obtained a license to operate a video gaming terminal or video
computer amusement device from the Illinois Gaming Board at such premises shall
be required to apply for and obtain a video gaming sticker from the village for
each video gaming terminal or video computer amusement device located at such
establishment.
(Ord. 2080, passed 5-3-2012; Ord. 2513, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 114.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The issuance of video gaming stickers shall be limited and regulated as
follows:
   (A)   Parties authorized to apply. Any person or entity licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor may apply to the Liquor Control Commissioner for a village
video gaming sticker on an application for provided.
   (B)   Display of video sticker. All video gaming terminals and video
computer amusement devices at premises within the village shall display a
village video gaming sticker at all times. The fee for each video sticker shall
be established at the maximum rate permitted by state statute.
   (C)   Prohibited areas for video gaming. Village video gaming stickers shall
not be issued for any video gaming terminal or video computer amusement device
on any premise that is located 1,000 feet of a horse racing or riverboat
gambling facility or is located within 100 feet of a school or a place of
worship.
   (D)   Limit on stickers. No more than six video gaming terminals may be
located on any premises where alcoholic liquor is sold and served for
consumption on the premises.
   (E)   Location of video gaming terminals and video computer amusement
devices in premises. Video gaming terminals and video computer amusement
devices must be located in an area that is restricted to persons over 21 years
of age. The entrance to such area must be within view of at least one employee.
   (F)   Use by persons not having reached age 21 prohibited. No holder of a
license to sell alcoholic liquor may cause or permit any person under the age
of 21 years to use or play a video gaming terminal device or video computer
amusement device.
   (G)   Hours of operation. Video gaming terminal devices and video computer
amusement devices may be played only during the hours of operation permitted
for the consumption of alcohol at that establishment.
   (H)   Illinois Gaming Board rules apply. Any holder of a liquor license must
comply with any provision of the Act and must also follow all rules,
regulations, and restrictions imposed by the Illinois Gaming Board and the
provisions of the Illinois Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 2080, passed 5-3-2012; Ord. 2513, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 114.04 VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   All of the rights, obligations, and responsibilities of any party, license
holder, distributor, or operator shall be subject to all of the provisions of
the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40,§§ 1 through 85, inclusive,
and as hereafter amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2080, passed 5-3-2012; Ord. 2513, passed 8-15-2019)
RAFFLES AND GAMES OF CHANCE
§ 114.25 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the
conducting or operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise activity or device
other than raffles as provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002)
§ 114.26 RAFFLES AND CHANCES LICENSING.
   (A)   There is established a raffles and chances license that shall be
issued only to bona fide religious, charitable, labor fraternal, educational or
veterans organizations that operate without profit to their members and which
have been in existence continuously for a period of five years immediately
before making application for license as provided for in this subchapter, and
which have had during the entire five-year period a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objectives and who have complied with the
provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1
et seq.
   (B)   Licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for one or
more raffle sessions on the days and for periods not to exceed one year, as are
specified in the license. The license may be suspended or revoked by the
village for any violation of this subchapter, the terms of the license, or ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.
   (C)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the village shall act upon any
application for license submitted to them pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter within 30 days from the date the application shall have been filed
with the Village Clerk.
   (D)   A lessor or renter of premises utilized for raffle drawing purposes
shall be required to obtain a license for the purpose from the village to the
extent required by state law.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002)
§ 114.27 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall be
subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct a raffle governed by the
provisions of this subchapter without first having obtained a license therefore
as provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   An application for a raffle or chance license must specify the area or
areas within the village that the raffle chances may be sold or issued in, the
time period during which the raffle chances may be sold or issued, and the time
and place for the determination of the winning chance.
   (C)   Any license issued for a raffle or chance license must specify the
area or areas within the village that the raffle chances may be sold or issued
in, the time period during which raffle chances may be sold or issued, and the
time and place for the determination of the winning chance.
   (D)   An application for the raffle or chance license must contain a sworn
statement attesting to the not for profit character of the prospective licensee
organization and must be signed by the presiding officer and secretary of that
organization.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.28 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following are ineligible for any license issued pursuant to this
subchapter:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A)
(1), (2) or (3) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which the person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A)
(1), (2) or (3) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated
or not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A)(1), (2)
or (3) above is to participate in the management or operation of the raffle for
which the license is being sought.
   (B)   The license applicant shall have the opportunity for a hearing before
the Mayor and the Board of Trustees, to be held not less than five days after
notice of the time and place of the hearing, addressed to him or her at his or
her last known place of business, has been mailed, to show cause why his or her
license application should not be denied.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002)
§ 114.29 RAFFLE REGULATIONS.
   Each raffle conducted pursuant to a raffle and chance license issued as
provided for in this subchapter shall be subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct the raffle.
   (B)   No person, except the bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)    Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license or at the licensee’s principal place of business. Winning
chances may be determined only at those locations specified on the license or
at the licensee’s principal place of business.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where the winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002; Ord. 2440, passed 7-19-2018)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.30 FIDELITY BOND REQUIRED.
   All operations of and the conduct of raffles as provided for in this
subchapter shall be under the supervision of a single manager designated by the
organization. The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of$4,000,000 or
two times the aggregate value of prizes, whichever is less, in favor of the
license conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his or her
duties. The bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
village not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation. Bonds, as provided for
in this subchapter, may be waived provided that the license issued for the
raffle shall contain a waiver provision and shall be granted only by unanimous
vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002; Ord. 2440, passed 7-19-2018; Ord. 2729, passed 9-
5-2024)
§ 114.31 SELLING RAFFLE CHANCES.
    Raffle chances authorized to be issued or sold pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter may be sold within the boundaries specified on the license
or at the licensee's principal place of business.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002; Am. Ord. 2440, passed 7-19-2018)
§ 114.32 LIMITATION ON VALUE OF PRIZE AWARDED.
   A limitation in the amount of$4,000,000 is imposed upon the aggregate retail
value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a licensee in a single raffle. A
limitation in the amount of $100 is hereby imposed upon each raffle chance
which is issued or sold in a single raffle. The number of days a licensee may
sell chances for a single raffle is limited to 180 days prior to that raffle,
except the Queen of Hearts raffle until a winner is pulled.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002; Ord. 2440, passed 7-19-2018; Ord. 2729, passed 9-
5-2024)
§ 114.33 CERTAIN RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Each organization licensed pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter to conduct a raffle shall keep records of its gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds for each single raffle. All deductions from the gross
receipts for each single raffle shall be documented with receipts or other
records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased items or service
or other reason for the deduction and the receipt. The distribution of the net
proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of each single raffle shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo receipts,
if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant
to a license issued by the State Department of Revenue, and placed in a
separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of each
separate raffle. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of each raffle shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle under the provisions of
this subchapter shall report to its membership, and to the village its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from each raffle and to the distribution of
the net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   (D)   Records required by this subchapter shall be kept for three years and
organizations shall make available their records relating to the operation of
any raffle for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002)
BINGO HALLS
§ 114.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BINGO HALL. An establishment housing bingo activities licensed or required
to be licensed under the Act as a provider under the Act, which operates for
profit. Nothing contained herein shall define a fraternal organization, senior
citizen’s center or church facility conducting bingo, incidental to its primary
operations as a BINGO HALL.
(Ord. 1696, passed 5-17-2001)
§ 114.46 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bingo hall in the village,
hosting bingo games without obtaining a bingo parlor license.
(Ord. 1696, passed 5-17-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.47 GENERAL LICENSING PROVISION TO APPLY.
   All of the general licensing regulations as set forth in Chapter 110 shall
be applicable to the license.
(Ord. 1696, passed 5-17-2001)
§ 114.48 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for the license shall be $1,000 per month.
(Ord. 1696, passed 5-17-2001)
§ 114.49 COMPLIANCE WITH “BINGO LICENSE AND TAX ACT”.
   The license so granted shall be granted upon strict compliance with the Act
by the business license holder and all persons conducting bingo activities in
the premises which are licensed or required to be licensed under the Act.
(Ord. 1696, passed 5-17-2001)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or organization who is convicted of
violating a provision of §§
114.25 through
114.33 shall be guilty of a Class C ordinance violation for the first offense
and a Class B ordinance violation for any second or subsequent conviction.
(Ord. 897, passed 12-2-1982; Ord. 1731, passed 3-21-2002;  Ord. 2080, passed 5-
3-2012)
CHAPTER 115: CONTRACTORS AND BUILDERS
Section
Building Contractors
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   License required; application
   
115.03   License fees
   
115.04   Bond and insurance
   
115.05   Subcontractors
   
115.06   Conditions of license
   
115.07   Revocation of license
Sewer Builders and Drain Layers
   
115.20   Definition
   
115.21   State license required; statement filed
   
115.22   Bond requirements
   
115.23   Change in name of location of business; display of license
   
115.24   Master plumbers
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
BUILDING CONTRACTORS
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CONTRACTOR. Anyone engaged in the business of cement or concrete
contracting, either flat, form or wall work, or as a masonry contractor, or as
a carpenter contractor, or as a general building contractor, and any person
engaged in the construction, alteration or repair of buildings or other
structures or sidewalk or street pavements. Engaging in the construction,
repair or alteration of any building, structure or street or sidewalk pavement
in the village for which a permit is required under the ordinances of the
village shall be construed as doing business as a contractor in the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-1)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in business in the village as a
building contractor without first having obtained a license therefor as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Applications for licenses shall be upon forms provided by the Village
Clerk and will be issued by the Clerk after approval by the License and
Ordinance Committee of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Applications rejected by the License and Ordinance Committee will be
reviewed and acted upon by the Board of Trustees upon written request of the
applicant within 30 days after rejection by the License and Ordinance
Committee.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-2) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual fee for the license shall be as provided in §
110.14.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-3)
§ 115.04 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Bond. Before any license aforesaid shall be issued, the applicant
shall execute a bond running to the village with a corporate surety in the
amount of $5,000, conditioned upon the performance by the applicant of the
obligations to be performed under the terms of this subchapter and further
conditioned to indemnify and save the village harmless from any liability, loss
or damage resulting from the work undertaken, or the manner of doing same, by
the applicant.
   (B)   Insurance.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of a building or
structure in the village or for the repair or alteration of the exterior of any
building or structure unless a certificate or other proof is filed showing that
the contractor carries worker’s compensation insurance and public liability
insurance with limits of at least $50,000 for each person and $100,000 for each
accident on bodily injury liability and $25,000 on property damage liability.
      (2)   Before any contractor does any work for the village on any street
or highway or on any building or premises owned by the village commences work,
he or she shall file with the Clerk a certificate or other proof showing that
he or she carries worker’s compensation and public liability insurance as
required by the ordinances and the terms of his or her contract.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-4)
§ 115.05 SUBCONTRACTORS.
   Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be construed as engaged
in the business of a building contractor for which a license is required by
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-5)
§ 115.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all building contractors to comply with all
ordinances relating to the construction of buildings or other structures, to
the construction of streets or sidewalk pavements and all laws or ordinances
pertaining to or regulating the activities engaged in.
   (B)   The licensed or registered person shall:
      (1)   At least once each week, remove from the site of his or her
activities all trash, refuse and waste materials;
      (2)   At all times, keep the site of activities in an orderly condition,
free from standing water, unguarded dangerous implements and health, fire and
safety hazards;
      (3)   Not obstruct traffic on streets, alleys or sidewalks and shall not
permit dirt or waste materials to fall or be carried onto the public ways; and
      (4)   Comply with all village ordinances relating to the construction of
buildings or other structures, to the construction of streets or sidewalk
pavements and pertaining to or regulating the activities engaged.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-6) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any building contractor’s license may be revoked by the Mayor for
repeated violations of any ordinance relating to the construction of buildings,
the use of streets or the replacing of streets, sidewalks or parkways or any
other ordinance relating to the work performed by the contractor.
   (B)   The revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed for violating
this subchapter.
   (C)   An appeal may be made from the Mayor’s revocation, as provided in §
110.13.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-7)
SEWER BUILDERS AND DRAIN LAYERS
§ 115.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEWER BUILDER or DRAIN LAYER. Included in the term PLUMBER, as defined in
the act of the legislature entitled, “An Act in Relation to the Regulation of
Plumbing and Licensing of Master Plumbers, Journeyman Plumbers and Registration
of Plumber’s Apprentices”, being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 320, §§ 1 et seq. and for
the protection of public health and repeal of a certain Act therein named,
filed 6-17-1935, and is so included herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-7B-1)
§ 115.21 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED; STATEMENT FILED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in business affecting sewers and drains
in the village as a sewer builder or drain layer shall first obtain and exhibit
to the village a license from the State Professional Regulations Department.
   (B)   Every person desiring to transact business as a sewer builder or drain
layer shall file with the village a statement, in writing, giving the name and
place of business of the person, and the village shall require the applicant to
produce his or her license from the Professional Regulations Department of the
state and exhibit the same before doing any work in the village as the sewer
builder or drain layer. He or she shall also submit proof that his or her
workers have the licenses.
(Prior Code, § 3-7B-2)
§ 115.22 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A bond shall be required of every person engaging in any of the
businesses pertaining to the construction of sewers or drains in the village in
the sum of $10,000 to be executed to the village, with sureties conditioned
upon the faithful observance and performance of all the provisions of this
subchapter or other ordinances of the village concerning sewers and drains and
the making or maintaining of any connection thereto or therewith and
conditioned, further, to save and keep the village harmless from loss, cost,
damage, expense or liability of any kind whatsoever which the village may
suffer or which may accrue against it or be charged to or recovered from it by
reason of anything done by the person or by any servant thereof in and about
the making of any alterations or repairs to or any work done in connection with
the sewer system or any drain or pipe connection with the sewer of the village.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing surety bond, a cash bond shall be
required in the following amounts, which cash bond shall be held by the village
for a period of six months to ensure faithful performance as set forth in this
section and for the reasons as set forth in this section. The cash bond shall
be in the amount of $100; however, in the event that it is necessary to open or
otherwise disturb a street or curb, the cash bond requirement shall be $300.
(Prior Code, § 3-7B-3)
§ 115.23 CHANGE IN NAME OR LOCATION OF BUSINESS; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Name or location change. Any change of the name or location of a
business of any person doing business as a sewer builder or drain layer under
this subchapter must be promptly reported to the Village Board.
   (B)   State license posted. The state license referred to in this subchapter
shall be kept in a conspicuous place in the licensee’s place of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-7B-4)
§ 115.24 MASTER PLUMBERS.
   (A)   No firm, association or partnership shall engage in business as sewer
builders or drain layers or represent themselves as such or as plumbers unless
at least one active member or partner thereof, continually engaged in the
conduct, supervision or performance of the firm, association or partnership
business, shall be a master plumber. The master plumber shall exhibit his or
her license before being permitted to work as such in the village.
   (B)   All licensed master plumbers shall be held responsible for all acts of
their agents or employees done under or by virtue of the license required by
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-7B-5) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person engaging in the businesses without first obtaining a
license or registration therefor or in violation of §§
115.01 through
115.07 or any ordinance or regulation shall be fined not more than $750 for
each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-7A-8)
   (C)   (1)   Report of violations. Any sewer builder or drain layer who shall
be guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of §§
115.20 through
115.24 or of §§
50.40 through
50.51 shall be reported by the Village Board to the Professional Regulations
Department of the State, and in addition thereto, for any act performed in
violation hereof or of §§
50.40 through
50.51, he or she may be punished as prescribed herein.
      (2)   Penalties. Any person violating the provisions of §§
115.20 through
115.24 shall be fined not more than $750 and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-7B-6)
(Ord. 872, passed 7-1-1982)
CHAPTER 116: CATCH BASIN CLEANERS
Section
   
116.01   License required
   
116.02   Application for license; fee; term
   
116.03   Bond
   
116.04   Revocation of license
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 116.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in or carry on the business of removing or
transporting the contents of catch basins or sewers or refuse of like nature,
by wagon or otherwise or, in any manner, engage in or carry on the business of
cleaning catch basins, which shall mean cleaning only and not repairing of
sewers, within the village, without first having obtained a license from the
village to do so.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-1) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE; TERM.
   (A)   A license to carry on the business in the village may be obtained by
application to the Village Board upon the payment of an annual license fee as
provided in §
110.14.
   (B)   Every license shall expire on December 31 next after its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2)
§ 116.03 BOND.
   Each cleaner of catch basins shall, before engaging in the business, furnish
a bond in the sum of $5,000 to the village, conditioned upon the payment of
damages that may be caused in carrying on the business.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3)
§ 116.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The license may be revoked if the licensee shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, the other ordinances of the village or laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-4)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $750 and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-5) (Ord. 872, passed 7-1-1982)
CHAPTER 117: COMMERCIAL CAKE AND CANDY MAKERS
Section
   
117.01   License required
   
117.02   Application for license; fee
   
117.03   Compliance with provisions
 
   
117.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Liquor Control; Food, see
Ch. 112
§ 117.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of making and selling cakes, pies,
pastries, candies and/or confections without first having obtained a license
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-1) (Ord. 1070, passed 5-5-1988) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   An application for a commercial cake, pie, pastry, candy and
confection maker license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of the village code relating to applications for licenses.
   (B)   The annual license fee for a commercial cake, pie, pastry, candy and
confection maker shall be as provided in §
110.14.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-2) (Ord. 1070, passed 5-5-1988)
§ 117.03 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   All commercial cake, pie, pastry, candy and confection makers shall comply
with all the Health Code provisions and applicable ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-3) (Ord. 1070, passed 5-5-1988) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $750 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-4) (Ord. 1070, passed 5-5-1988)
CHAPTER 118: VETERINARY HOSPITALS
Section
   
118.01   Definition
   
118.02   License required
   
118.03   Application for license; fee
   
118.04   Veterinarian required
   
118.05   Sanitary premises
 
   
118.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 118.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any institution, place or enclosure used for the
harboring or reception for care and treatment of two or more horses, dogs, cats
or other animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-1) (Ord. 732, passed 5-3-1979)
§ 118.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of a veterinary hospital without
first having obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-2) (Ord. 732, passed 5-3-1979) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   An application for a veterinary hospital license shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of the village code relating to
applications for licenses.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each veterinary hospital shall be as
provided in §
110.14.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-3) (Ord. 732, passed 5-3-1979)
§ 118.04 VETERINARIAN REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any veterinary hospital unless the hospital
has at least one licensed veterinarian in attendance at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-4) (Ord. 732, passed 5-3-1979) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 SANITARY PREMISES.
   All veterinary hospitals shall be kept free and clean from decaying food and
from filth of any kind. All parts of the buildings, premises or enclosures
shall be disinfected, from time to time, and shall be kept in a sanitary
condition.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-5) (Ord. 732, passed 5-3-1979) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $750 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-6) (Ord. 732, passed 5-3-1979)
CHAPTER 119: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Operation of taxicabs
   
119.03   Taxicab stands
   
119.04   Vehicle requirements
   
119.05   Disposition of material left in taxicabs
   
119.06   Enforcement
Licenses
   
119.20   License required; term
   
119.21   Application for license; issuance
   
119.22   Determination of necessity of taxicab service; hearing
   
119.23   Bond or insurance required
   
119.24   Revocation or suspension of license
Fares
   
119.35   Receipt for fare paid
   
119.36   Prepayment of fare; duty of drivers to convey orderly persons
   
119.37   Overcharging prohibited
Driver Requirements
   
119.50   License required; qualifications
   
119.51   Application of license; affidavit; photographs generally
   
119.52   Investigation and examination of applicant; issuance or refusal of
license
   
119.53   Date of issuance; expiration
   
119.54   Contents of license
   
119.55   Renewal of license
   
119.56   Conditions of license
   
119.57   Suspension and revocation of license
   
119.58   License records
   
119.59   Drug testing in connection with accident investigation
 
   
119.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Every person having the use or control of one or more taxicabs, as
defined in this section.
   TAXICAB. All public vehicles driven by mechanical power and used for the
carriage of persons for hire, except those vehicles commonly known as buses.
   TAXIMETER. An instrument or device by which the charge for hire of a taxicab
is calculated either for distance traveled or for waiting time or for both and
upon which the charge shall be indicated by means of figures.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.02 OPERATION OF TAXICABS.
   (A)   Duty of owners to furnish service; abandonment of service.
      (1)   The applicant shall operate his or her licensed vehicle or vehicles
during each day of the licensed year to the extent reasonably necessary to meet
the public demand of the service.
      (2)   Upon complete abandonment of the service for the period of ten
consecutive days by the owner or operator of the service, the Chief of Police,
upon hearing, after five days’ notice to the owner or operator, shall thereupon
recommend to the Village Board that the license of the owner or operator shall
be revoked, covering all licensed vehicles of the owner or operator.
   (B)   Carrying additional passengers. No driver of a taxicab licensed under
this chapter shall carry any person other than the first passenger first
employing the taxicab without the consent of the first passenger.
   (C)   Cruising streets prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the driver of
any taxicab to seek employment by repeatedly and persistently driving his or
her taxicab about the streets of the village or otherwise interfering with the
proper and orderly access to or egress from any theater, hall, hotel, public
resort, railway station or other place of public gathering.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.03 TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   Taxicabs.
      (1)   Only taxicabs in numbers and of kinds as are set forth on the
required metal sign may remain at the stand while waiting for employment and
only in single file pointed in accordance with the traffic regulations. No
taxicab standing at the head of any line shall refuse to carry any orderly
person applying for a taxicab who agrees to pay the proper fare, but this shall
not prevent any person from electing any taxicab he or she may desire on the
stand, whether it be at the head of the line or not. As the taxicabs leave the
line with passenger, those behind shall move up, and any taxicab seeking a
space on the stand shall approach the same only from the rear of the stand and
shall stop as near as possible to the last cab already on the line.
      (2)   No taxicab shall stand at the curb within 15 feet of the entrance
of any building adjacent to a taxicab stand located and designed by the Village
Board, which distance shall be determined by measuring 15 feet on each side of
the point of the curb opposite the middle of the entrance to the adjacent
building.
   (B)   Private vehicles. No private vehicle shall be permitted to stand or
use the space in a public stand except to receive or to discharge passengers or
merchandise.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.04 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Age and condition of vehicles; inspections.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be licensed as a taxicab, whether upon new
application or renewal, until it has been thoroughly and carefully inspected
and examined and found to be in a thoroughly safe condition for the
transportation of passengers, clean, fit, of good appearance and well painted.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owner of each taxicab to submit to the
Chief of Police each taxicab for inspection prior to the issuance of the
license and at least once every year thereafter, or at any time upon complaint.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall make or have made by his or her
inspectors or a qualified automobile mechanic examination and inspection before
a license shall be issued.
   (B)   Taxicab colors and name. No taxicab license shall be issued under the
provisions of this chapter to any person having the name or colors of his or
her taxicab similar to that of any other person having a taxicab license within
the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.05 DISPOSITION OF MATERIAL LEFT IN TAXICABS.
   Whenever any package or article of baggage or goods of any kind shall be
left in or on any taxicab or shall be left in the custody of the driver
thereof, the driver of the taxicab shall, upon the discovery of the package or
article, forthwith deliver the same to the police station of the village,
unless the package or article shall be sooner delivered to the owner thereof or
upon the order of the owner.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The licensing and inspecting of taxicabs, the examining of applicants
for licenses to drive the taxicabs, the licensing of drivers and enforcing of
the provisions of this chapter shall be under the control of the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall require that all taxicabs are kept in a
condition of continued fitness for public use.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
LICENSES
§ 119.20 LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM.
   No taxicab shall pick up passengers in the village unless there shall first
have been obtained therefor a taxicab license from the Mayor. The taxicab
license shall be issued annually, on January 1 in each and every year, and
should be valid to and including December 31 next succeeding and shall be
effective for a period of time unless sooner suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.21 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   Applications for taxicab licenses shall be made to the Mayor by the owner
thereof upon blank forms to be furnished by the Mayor and the application shall
contain the full name and address of the owner or operator, a list containing
the class of the vehicles for which the license is desired, the length of time
the vehicles have been in use, the number of persons each vehicle is capable of
carrying and the motor power thereof. The application shall thereupon be
referred by the Mayor to the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall perform
a background investigation of all applicants, stockholders/owners and drivers
of vehicles and inspect all vehicles. Upon approval of the application by the
Chief of Police, he or she shall so endorse the application and file the same
with the Village Clerk who shall, upon payment of the fee prescribed by this
chapter, issue the license, complying herewith.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.22 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY OF TAXICAB SERVICE; HEARING.
   (A)   No taxicab license shall be issued under this chapter unless the
Village Board, after a hearing, shall, by resolution, declare and determine
that public convenience and necessity require the proposed taxicab service for
which application for a license is made; provided that, the determination of
public convenience and necessity shall not be necessary:
      (1)   For the licensing of the same number of taxicabs licensed for
operation and operated by the applicant under the same name and colors for
which a license was issued previously or the renewal of the license annually
thereafter; or
      (2)   For the renewal of a license to the applicant for the number of
taxicabs of the applicant for which the Village Board shall have, at any time,
prior to the date of application for the renewal made a declaration of public
convenience and necessity.
   (B)   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the
licensing of the taxicabs for which application may be made, the Village Board
shall take into consideration:
      (1)   Whether the demands of the public convenience and necessity require
the proposed or the additional taxicab service within the village;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant;
      (3)   The number, kind and type of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of maximum rates proposed to be charged;
      (5)   The color scheme to be used by the applicant;
      (6)   The increased traffic congestion and demand for increased parking
spaces on the streets of the village which may result;
      (7)   Whether the safe use of the streets by the public, both vehicular
and pedestrian, will be preserved by the granting of such additional license;
and
      (8)   Other relevant facts as the Village Board may deem advisable or
necessary.
   (C)   If the Village Board finds from the investigation and hearing that the
public convenience and necessity justify the operation of the taxicab for which
license is desired, it shall notify the applicant of its finding. Within 60
days thereafter, the applicant shall furnish to the Village Board any and all
additional information which may be required, and if the Village Board then
finds that the applicant is the owner and bona fide operator of the vehicle for
which the license is desired and that the vehicle complies with all of the
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the village, the license shall
thereupon be issued to the applicant upon the payment of the proper license
fee.
   (D)   If the Village Board finds from the investigation and hearing that the
public convenience and necessity do not justify the operation of the vehicle
for which the license is desired, it shall forthwith notify the applicant of
the finding.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.23 BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No owner shall be licensed to operate a taxicab until he or she has complied
with the state law pertaining to a surety bond or liability insurance coverage
and filed a copy of the surety bond or liability insurance with the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.24 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Any taxicab license shall be subject to suspension or revocation upon
conviction of the holder thereof for any violation of this chapter. The Village
Board may, at its discretion, suspend or revoke a license granted upon any
provision of this chapter pending or in advance of the criminal prosecution of
the licensee, after notice and hearing.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
FARES
§ 119.35 RECEIPT FOR FARE PAID.
   If demanded by the passenger, the driver in charge of a taxicab shall
deliver to the person paying for the hiring of the same, at the time of the
payment, a receipt therefor in legible type or writing containing the name of
the owner or operator, the total amount paid and the date of payment.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.36 PREPAYMENT OF FARE; DUTY OF DRIVERS TO CONVEY ORDERLY PERSONS.
   Every driver of a taxicab shall have the right to demand payment of the
legal fare in advance and may refuse employment unless so prepaid, but no
driver of a taxicab shall otherwise refuse or neglect to convey any orderly
person upon request anywhere in the village unless previously engaged or unable
to do so.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.37 OVERCHARGING PROHIBITED.
   No driver of any taxicab shall charge or attempt to charge any passenger a
greater fare than its customary and reasonable fare.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
DRIVER REQUIREMENTS
§ 119.50 LICENSE REQUIRED; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Every person driving a taxicab must be licensed by the village as a taxicab
driver.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.51 APPLICATION OF LICENSE; AFFIDAVIT; PHOTOGRAPHS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure a village taxicab driver’s license shall
make application in writing therefor to the Mayor upon a form to be provided by
the Village Clerk. The application shall set forth the name of the applicant,
his or her residence and occupation and shall be endorsed by at least two
responsible citizens who shall certify that the applicant is a person of good
habits, honest, sober and industrious and a fit person to drive or operate a
taxicab.
   (B)   Along with the application, the applicant shall file an affidavit
stating the applicant’s full name, residence, places of residence during the
previous five years, age, sex, race, height, color of eyes and hair, place of
birth, whether a citizen of the United States, places of previous employment,
whether he or she has ever been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor, whether
he or she has previously been licensed as a driver or chauffeur and if so,
whether his or her license has ever been revoked and for what cause, which
affidavit shall be filed with the Village Clerk as a permanent record.
   (C)   The applicant shall also file with the application to the Village
Clerk two recent photographs of himself or herself of a size which may be
easily attached to the license, one of which shall be attached to the license
when issued and the other shall be filed with the application in the office of
the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Each applicant for a taxicab driver’s license must:
      (1)   Be of the age of 18 years or over;
      (2)   Be of sound physique with good eyesight and not subject to
epilepsy, vertigo, heart trouble or any other infirmity of body or mind which
might render the applicant unfit for the safe operation of a taxicab;
      (3)   Be able to read, write and speak the English language; and
      (4)   Be clean in dress and person and not be addicted to the use of
narcotics or intoxicating liquors, as determined by a drug and alcohol testing
as part of the driver interview and screening process.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.52 INVESTIGATION AND EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL OF
LICENSE.
   (A)   The applicant, affidavit and photographs referred to in §
119.51 shall be referred to the Police Chief who shall investigate the
qualifications and the physical and mental condition of the applicant.
   (B)   Each applicant for a village taxicab driver’s license under the
provisions of this chapter shall be examined by the Chief of Police or some
person by him or her designated as to the applicant’s knowledge of the
provisions of this chapter, the traffic regulations and the geography of the
village.
   (C)   If the results of the examinations be unsatisfactory, the applicant
shall be refused a license. If the Chief of Police shall approve the
application, he or she shall endorse thereon the approval and return the same
together with the affidavit and photographs to the Village Clerk, who shall
forthwith issue the license.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.53 DATE OF ISSUANCE; EXPIRATION.
   Taxicab drivers’ licenses shall be issued as of January 1 of each year or as
of the date of initial application in each and every year and shall be valid to
and including December 31 of the year.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.54 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Taxicab drivers’ licenses shall be in such form as to contain the
signature of the licensee and blank spaces upon which a record may be made of
any arrest of or serious complaint against him or her.
   (B)   All taxicab drivers’ licenses shall be numbered when issued.
   (C)   The taxicab drivers’ license issued by the Mayor shall have attached
thereto one of the photographs of the driver previously deposited with that
office as provided in §
119.51, in a manner that it cannot be removed and another photograph
substituted without detection.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.55 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   The Mayor may renew a taxicab driver’s license from year to year by
appropriate endorsement thereof. A taxicab driver, in applying for a renewal of
his or her taxicab driver’s license, shall make an application upon a form to
be furnished by the Village Clerk, entitled “Application for Renewal of
License”, which shall be filled out with the full name and address of the
applicant, together with a statement of the date upon which his or her original
license was granted and the number thereof.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.56 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   License to be posted. Each licensed driver shall, while operating a
taxicab, display this license in a prominent place.
   (B)   Defacing licenses prohibited. No holder of a taxicab driver’s village
license shall deface, remove or obliterate any official entry made upon the
license.
   (C)   Drivers to report changes of residence. If any person licensed as a
taxicab driver under this chapter shall change residence at any time while his
or her license is in force, the driver shall forthwith notify the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.57 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A taxicab driver’s license may be suspended or revoked at any time for
violation of the provisions of this chapter or other cause after notice and
hearing as provided in this chapter. The Chief of Police may suspend the
license for ten days pending final action by the Village Board. Any suspension
shall be noted on the license, together with a statement of the reasons
therefor, and the driver shall be deprived of his or her license by the officer
suspending or revoking the license. No driver whose license has been revoked
shall again be licensed as a taxicab driver in the village unless upon
presentation of reasons satisfactory to the Village Board. The Village Clerk
shall notify the Police Department when any license is revoked.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.58 LICENSE RECORDS.
   There shall be kept in the office of the Village Clerk a complete record of
each taxicab driver’s village license issued and of all renewals, suspensions
or revocations thereof. The Village Clerk’s record shall be kept on file with
the original application by the driver for a license.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.59 DRUG TESTING IN CONNECTION WITH ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION.
   Any taxicab driver involved in an accident involving property damage or
personal injury shall be subject to immediate drug and alcohol testing by the
license holder’s testing laboratory, with the results made available to the
Chief of Police, for completion of an accident investigation.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $750. In addition to the fine, any license issued pursuant to
this chapter may be suspended or revoked as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1594, passed 11-5-1998)
CHAPTER 120: TOBACCO
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Unlawful distribution
   
120.03   Display of warning sign
   
120.04   Unlawful purchase
   
120.05   Unlawful possession
   
120.06   Use of identification
 
   
120.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Sale of cigarettes or tobacco, see §
136.05
   Smoking, see
Ch. 96
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical device used or intended to be used
for the sale or distribution of tobacco products, the operation of which is
governed by the deposit of currency, a coin or a token.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company,
business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association, syndicate,
society or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual,
cooperative, fraternal, for profit, nonprofit or otherwise.
   SMOKELESS TOBACCO. Any loose, cut, shredded, ground, powdered, compressed or
leaf tobacco that is intended to be placed in the mouth, sniffed through the
nose, dipped or chewed.
   TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL. Includes without limitation, the following:
      (1)   Delta-1 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (2)   Delta-6 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (3)   Delta-3.4 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and its optical
isomers;
      (4)   Delta-10 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and its optical
isomers;
      (5)   Delta-8 tetrahydrocannabinol acetate 8 ester;
      (6)   Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol acetate 10 ester;
      (7)   Delta-6a, 10a tetrahydrocannabinol acetate ester;
      (8)   Delta-10 tetrahydrocannabinol acetate ester;
      (9)   A product derived from industrial hemp that was produces as a
result of a chemical process that converted the industrial hemp or a substance
contained in the industrial hemp into Delta-8, Delta-9, Delta-6a, 10a, or
Delta-10 tetrahydrocannabinol including their respective esters; and
      (10)   Any other psychoactive substance derived therein.
   TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL PRODUCT. Any product containing tetrahydrocannabinol
used for human consumption.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. All smokeless tobacco and all cigarettes, cigars, clove
cigarettes, pipe tobacco, and all products that contain any portion of the
tobacco plant or tobacco leaf in any of its forms.
   WARNING SIGN. The sign as required pursuant to the State Cigarette Health
Warning Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 85, §§ 1 et seq., as amended from time to time,
which shall state on a white backing with red letters at least one-half inch in
height the following: “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: SMOKING BY PREGNANT WOMEN MAY
RESULT IN FETAL INJURY, PREMATURE BIRTH AND LOW BIRTH WEIGHT.”
(Ord. 1670, passed 9-21-2000; Ord. 2775, passed 5-15-2025)
§ 120.02 UNLAWFUL DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, buy for, barter,
exchange, deliver, distribute, provide samples of or furnish any tobacco
products to a minor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any business to sell, offer for sale, give
away, or deliver a tetrahydrocannabinol product by any means to any person
under the age of 21 years.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase, possess, or use a tetrahydrocannabinol product.
(Ord. 1670, passed 9-21-2000; Ord. 2775, passed 5-15-2025)  Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.03 DISPLAY OF WARNING SIGN.
   (A)   No person may sell, offer to sell, attempt to sell or distribute
tobacco products using a cigarette vending machine unless the warning sign is
permanently affixed to the cigarette vending machine in plain view.
   (B)   No person may sell, offer to sell or attempt to sell tobacco products
at retail unless the warning sign is posted in conspicuous place on the
person’s premises.
   (C)   All warning signs required to be displayed under this chapter shall be
in place within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 1670, passed 9-21-2000) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.04 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE.
   No minor shall purchase, barter, exchange or procure, or shall attempt to
purchase, barter, exchange or procure any tobacco products.
(Ord. 1670, passed 9-21-2000) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.05 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION.
   No minor shall possess any tobacco products; provided that, the possession
by a minor under the direct supervision of the minor’s parent or guardian in
the privacy of the parent’s or guardian’s home shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. 1670, passed 9-21-2000) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.06 USE OF IDENTIFICATION.
   No minor shall, in furtherance or facilitation of obtaining tobacco
products, display or use a false or forged identification card or any form of
identification or transfer, alter or deface an identification card or any form
of identification.
(Ord. 1670, passed 9-21-2000) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not more than $750 for the
first offense and not more than $1,000 for the second offense.
(Ord. 1670, passed 9-21-2000)
CHAPTER 121: MONEY ORDER VENDING MACHINES
Section
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   License required
   
121.03   General licensing provisions to apply
   
121.04   License fee
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MONEY ORDER. A prepaid negotiable check as defined by state statute.
(Ord. 1880, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 121.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to locate vending machines in the village for the sale
of money order(s) without a license.
(Ord. 1880, passed 3-16-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.03 GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS TO APPLY.
   All of the general licensing regulations as set forth in Chapter 110 shall
be applicable to the license.
(Ord. 1880, passed 3-16-2006)
§ 121.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for the license shall be $25 per year per machine.
(Ord. 1880, passed 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 122: PAWNBROKERS AND SECOND HAND PROPERTY PURCHASERS
Section
   
122.01   Definitions
   
122.02   License required
   
122.03   License application; investigation
   
122.04   License fee
   
122.05   Interest charges; posting requirements
   
122.06   Maintenance of records
   
122.07   Report to police
   
122.08   Inspection of records
   
122.09   Memorandum to pledger
   
122.10   Exhibition of pledged article
   
122.11   Display of weapons restricted
   
122.12   Removal of identifying marks prohibited
   
122.13   Hours of business
   
122.14   Sales and redemptions regulated
   
122.15   Prohibited pledges or purchases
   
122.16   Employees under 16
   
122.17   Effective date
 
   
122.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 122.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEALER OF SECONDHAND PROPERTY. Every person engaged in the business of
buying and/or selling and otherwise dealing in previously owned merchandise,
including, but not limited to audiovisual equipment, games, camera, computer
hardware, jewelry made of precious metal, precious stone or gem, auto parts,
auto accessories, sporting or athletic gear or equipment, including bicycles,
watches or currency.
   PAWNBROKER. Every person engaged in the business of receiving property in
pledge or as security for money or other things advanced to the pawner or
pledger.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 122.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of a pawnbroker or dealer of
second hand property within the village without a license. No junk peddler,
junk facility or secondhand dealer shall, during the period for which he or she
shall have been licensed or permitted as such, receive or hold any license to
engage in the business of a pawnbroker.
   (B)   No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
transferable to any person except upon the written consent of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees endorsed therein.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.03 LICENSE APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   An application for the licenses shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. The Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, shall investigate the applicant to determine
whether said applicant is of good moral character.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for a pawnshop license shall be as provided in §
110.14 above.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 122.05 INTEREST CHARGES; POSTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to charge or collect a greater
benefit or percentage upon money advanced and for the use and forbearance
thereof than the rate of 3% per month. Nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to conflict with the law pertaining to usury; and the person
receiving money so advanced may hold such monies to pay any fees in addition to
interest as herein provided.
   (B)   Each pawnbroker may contract for and receive fees in addition to
interest authorized by this section, as set forth herein, for investigating
title, storage, and insuring the collateral, closing the loan, making daily
reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses and losses of
every nature whatsoever and for all other services. The fees, when made and
collected, shall not be deemed interest for any purpose of law.
   (C)   Every pawnbroker, when making a loan under this section, shall be
entitled to charge and collect one time fees in the amounts authorized by state
law.
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall at all times have and keep the above
subsections printed in the English language, framed and posted in a prominent
and conspicuous position in his or her place of business, so that the provision
of this chapter shall be plainly legible and visible to all persons depositing
or pledging property with the pawnbrokers.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.06 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Every licensee shall keep a book in which there shall be typed or
printed in ink at the time of each loan a legible and accurate description in
the English language of the goods, articles or things pawned or pledged, the
amount of money loaned thereon, the time of pledging the same, the rate of
interest to be paid on the loan, and the person pawning or pledging the said
goods, article or thing. No entry made in the book shall be erased, obliterated
or defaced. For purposes of this section, the phrase TYPED OR PRINTED IN INK
may include a computer printout.
   (B)   The description of each musical instrument, camera, appliance or
machine of any type shall include: the brand name, the model number, if
available; and any serial number or other identification number installed by
the manufacturer; and a description of every other identifying marking, such as
an inscription, a social security number, a name, nickname or address appearing
on the item. The description of each watch shall include: the brand name, model
number, if available; a description of the metal or metals of its composition;
a description of the band, if any; and description of the face by number,
color, cut, shape and type of stone or stones, if any; and a description of any
inscriptions appearing on the watch. The description of each item of jewelry
shall include the type; a description of the metal or metals of its
composition; the type, shape and cut of each stone; and a description of all
inscriptions. Each ring shall also be identified by ring size. In addition,
each watch and item of jewelry shall be photographed in color.
   (C)   The description of each person who pawns or pledges shall consist of
the person's name, residence address, birth date, social security number,
driver's license or state identification number, weight, height and gender. If
the person has no social security number, the licensee shall record this fact.
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall require two forms of identification to be shown
to him or her by each person pledging or pawning any goods, articles or other
things to the pawnbroker. At least one of the two forms of identification must
list the person's name and residence address. Except as provided in division
(E) of this section, at least one of the two forms of identification must be a
photographic identification issued by a federal, state or local governmental
entity. Forms of identification may include, but are not limited to: a state
driver's license, a state identification card, a passport, a military
identification card, or a credit card or utility bill. Required forms of
identification shall be copied and maintained for all transactions completed by
pawnbrokers or dealers of second hand property for a period of three years
following each transaction.
   (E)   If the customer does not have a photographic identification card
issued by a federal, state or local governmental entity, the licensee shall
photograph the customer. The photograph shall be in color. On the reverse side
of the photograph the licensee shall record the customer's name, residence
address, date of birth, social security number, gender, height and weight. If
the customer has no social security number, the licensee shall record this
fact. Two forms of identification shall also be required. At least one of the
two forms of identification shall list the person's name and residence address.
   (F)   Whenever any licensee shall buy any article of secondhand property,
the same shall be recorded in the same manner as a pledge and the record shall
show all information required for a pawn or pledge.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 122.07 REPORT TO POLICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every such licensee to make out and deliver to
a location or locations designated by the Chief of Police each Monday to a
designated email account or facsimile, before the hour of 12:00 p.m. noon, a
legible and correct copy from the books required in §
122.06 above of all personal property and other valuable things received on
deposit, and all articles of secondhand property purchased during the preceding
day setting forth the hour when received and the description of the person by
whom left in pledge or sold.
   (B)   The photographs required under §
122.06 above shall not be included in the records delivered to the Chief of
Police, but shall remain available for inspection and duplication by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.08 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The book, the photographs required under §
122.06 above, and every article or other thing of value pawned or pledged, or
any article of secondhand property obtained through purchase or exchange, shall
at all times during the licensee's business hours be open to the inspection of
the Mayor or any member of the police force or any investigator of the
Department of Revenue or the Department of Consumer Services.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.09 MEMORANDUM TO PLEDGER.
   Every licensee shall, at the time of each loan, deliver to the person
pawning or pledging any goods, article or thing, a memorandum or note signed by
him or her containing the substance of the entry made in his or her book as
required by this chapter; and no charge shall be made or received by any
pawnbroker or loan broker or keeper of a loan office for any entry, memorandum
or note.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.10 EXHIBITION OF PLEDGED ARTICLE.
   Every licensee shall, during business hours, upon the request of any pledger
presenting the memorandum herein provided for, or upon the request of any
assignee or transferee thereof presenting the memorandum, exhibit to the person
the article pledged and described in the memorandum. Each article pledged shall
have attached thereto a tag with the pledge number, the time when the pledge
was obtained, and the amount of the pledge.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.11 DISPLAY OF WEAPONS RESTRICTED.
   No licensee shall show, display or exhibit any pistol, revolver, derringer,
Bowie knife, dirk or other weapon of like character which can be concealed on
the person, in any show window or in or on any premises immediately abutting
upon any public way in the village in such a way that the same may be seen from
such public way.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.12 REMOVAL OF IDENTIFYING MARKS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall remove, alter or obliterate any manufacturer's make,
model, or serial number, personal identification number, or identifying marks
engraved or etched upon an item of personal property that was purchased or
received in pledge until such time that the licensee becomes the legal owner of
the property. In addition, an item shall not be accepted for pledge or purchase
where the manufacturer's make, model, or serial number, personal identification
number or identifying marks engraved or etched upon an item of personal
property has been removed, altered or obliterated.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.13 HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   No licensee shall receive on deposit or pledge any personal property or
other valuable thing, or shall buy any article of secondhand property, before
the hour of 6:00 a.m. or after the hour of 9:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.14 SALES AND REDEMPTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   No personal property received on deposit or pledge by any licensed
pawnbroker shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed or removed from the place
of business of the licensed pawnbroker for the period of 30 calendar days,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after the copy and statement to be
delivered to the Chief of Police shall have been delivered as required by this
chapter.
   (B)   No personal property pawned or pledged shall be sold or disposed of by
any pawnbroker within one year from the time when the pawner or pledger shall
make default in the payment of the interest on the money so advanced by such
pawnbroker, unless by the written consent of the pawner or pledger.
   (C)   No licensee shall offer or give any inducement or payment for the
consent of the pawner or pledger for the early sale or disposition of personal
property.
   (D)   No article of secondhand property purchased by any licensed pawnbroker
shall be sold or removed from the place of business of the licensed pawnbroker
for the period of 30 calendar days after the copy and statement to be delivered
to the Chief of Police shall have been delivered as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.15 PROHIBITED PLEDGES OR PURCHASES.
   (A)   No licensee shall take or receive in pawn or pledge, for money loaned,
or shall buy any property from a minor, or shall so take, receive or buy any
such property, the ownership of which is in, or which is claimed by, any minor,
or which may be in the possession or under the control of any minor.
   (B)   No licensee shall take any article in pawn or buy from any person
appearing to be intoxicated or under the influence of any drug, nor from any
person known to be a thief or to have been convicted of theft or burglary, and
when any person is found to be the owner of stolen property which has been
pawned or bought, the property shall be returned to the owner thereof without
the payment of the amount advanced by the pawnbroker thereon or any costs or
charges of any kind which the pawnbroker may have placed upon the same.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.16 EMPLOYEES UNDER 16.
   No licensee shall permit any person under the age of 16 years to take
pledges in pawn for him or her or to purchase secondhand articles for him or
her.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption
and approval.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011)
2012 S-1 Repl.
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $250 per
day. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2033, passed 4-21-2011)
CHAPTER 123: ADULT USES
Section
   
123.01   Short title
   
123.02   Purpose of regulations
   
123.03   Definitions
   
123.04   Sale or consumption of alcohol
   
123.05   Exterior display for sexually orientated businesses
   
123.06   Adult cabaret and adult theater; prohibited conduct
   
123.07   Regulations pertaining to the exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos in video booths
   
123.08   Business license required; fees
   
123.09   Nudity at sexually oriented businesses
   
123.10   Minors prohibited
 
   
123.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 123.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Regulation of Adult Uses.”
(Ord. 2165, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014)
§ 123.02 PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations are aimed at reducing and preventing the secondary effects
of adult uses. They are not enacted to regulate the content of the activities
performed at such uses. In addition, these regulations are based on the
village’s substantial interest in preventing crime, protecting retail trade,
maintaining property values, and generally protecting and preserving the
quality of the village’s neighborhoods, commercial districts and urban life.
Furthermore, it is not the purpose of these regulations to deny anyone a
reasonable opportunity to open and operate adult uses within the village. The
purpose of these regulations is the amelioration of adverse secondary effects
of adult uses. Finally, the Illinois Supreme Court has judicially confirmed
that the purpose of these regulations as hereinafter provided serves a valid
governmental interest.
(Ord. 2165, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014)
§ 123.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors or similar machines,
or other image-producing machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each,
are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions, which are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues, or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations characterized by the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;”
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia designed for use or marketed
primarily for stimulation of human genital organs, or for sadomasochistic use
or abuse of themselves or others; or
      (3)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting or
describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas,” and
still be categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO
STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt these
establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY
STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials depicting or describing “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities.”
   ADULT CABARET. Any establishment, including, but not limited to, a
nightclub, bar or restaurant, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served,
that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear nude or in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities;” or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment used for presenting
materials (e.g., films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions) distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances characterized by exposure
of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not that person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of the business.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, regardless of whether it
currently exists as a sexually oriented business, to any of the sexually
oriented businesses defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a general business license and
is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name the general business license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as
an applicant on the application on the general business license.
   NUDE, NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, male or female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress that fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region, or areola or nipple of
the female breast. This definition shall not be construed to include a state of
dress such as a bathing suit or similar dress when such dress fails to fully
cover the human buttocks.
   OPERATOR.  Includes the owner, custodian, manager, OPERATOR or person in
charge of any licensed premises.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, and adult
theater.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. 
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola. This definition shall not be construed to include a state of
dress, such as a bathing suit or similar dress, when it fails to fully cover
the human buttocks; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. 
      (1)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
masturbation, intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
other activities set forth in this definition.
(Ord. 2165, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014)
§ 123.04 SALE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL.
   The sale, use or consumption of alcohol on the premises of any sexually
oriented business is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.05 EXTERIOR DISPLAY FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   All new sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be one square foot of sign
area per foot of lot frontage on a street.
   (B)   No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on the
premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can be
viewed from the sidewalk in front of the building. The foregoing shall not
prohibit:
      (1)   The viewable display of any books, magazines, periodicals, printed
material, photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
visual representations that are not characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
      (2)   The viewable display of any instruments, devices or paraphernalia
that are not designed for use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human
genital organs, or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   (C)   Window areas shall not be covered or made opaque in any way. No sign
shall be placed in any window. A one square foot sign may be placed on the door
to state hours of operation and admittance to adults only.
(Ord. 2165, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.06 ADULT CABARET AND ADULT THEATER; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No adult cabaret or adult theater shall allow any person, employee,
entertainer or patron to have any physical contact with any entertainer while
dancing or performing in the state of semi-nudity within that establishment or
on its property.
   (B)   All dancing or performing by an employee or entertainer at an adult
cabaret or adult theater shall occur on a stage or table that is elevated at
least 18 inches above the immediate floor level, and shall not be less than
five feet from any area occupied by a patron.
   (C)   No patron shall directly pay for any service or dance, or give any
gratuity or tip, to any dancer or performer, and no dancer shall solicit from a
patron any gratuity or tip. Any tips or gratuities for dancers or performers
must be placed in a designated box within the facility not located on the
dancing or performance stage, and not less than five feet from any area
occupied by a patron.
(Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.07 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business that exhibits on the premises, in a viewing room of less than 150
square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette or other video reproduction,
which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   A diagram, specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations,
the location of all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of
the premises where patrons will not be permitted, must be submitted with the
business license application. The manager’s station may not exceed 32 square
feet of floor area, with no dimension greater than eight feet.
   (B)   At least one employee must be on duty at the manager’s station at all
times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (C)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view between the manager’s station and any area of the
premises to which a patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. The view
required in this section must be by direct line of site from a manager’s
station.
   (D)   All booths shall:
      (1)   Be visible from a well illuminated continuous main aisle;
      (2)   Not be obstructed by any curtain, door or any enclosure;
      (3)   Have all side and rear walls without holes or openings;
      (4)   Not be occupied by more than one patron or person at the same time;
and
      (5)   Be illuminated by an incandescent light of no less than 25 watts.
(Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.08 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a sexually oriented business within the
village without first receiving a business license. Unless otherwise provided
for herein, the provisions of
Chapter 110, Commercial License Code, shall govern the application, issuance,
renewal, suspension or revocation of a business license.
   (B)   If the village denies the completed application, it shall notify the
applicant of the denial and state, in writing, the reasons for the denial.
   (C)   After the denial of a business license application, the denial of a
business license renewal, or the revocation or suspension of a business
license, the applicant or other aggrieved party may file a written appeal with
the Board of Trustees within 14 days of the adverse administrative decision.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall schedule a hearing date within seven
days of the filing of the appeal.
      (2)   The hearing date shall be held within 30 days of the date the
appeal was filed.
      (3)   Once the hearing is concluded, the Board of Trustees shall make a
ruling and mail the applicant its written decision within 14 days of the date
of the conclusion of the hearing.
      (4)   If the denial, non-renewal, revocation or suspension is affirmed by
the Board of Trustees, its decision may be reviewed in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, or any court of competent jurisdiction, through certiorari or any
other available remedy.
   (D)   The denial, non-renewal, revocation or suspension of a business
license shall not be based on any intent to deny access by adults to sexually
oriented businesses.
(Ord. 2165, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.09 NUDITY AT SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including employees, to appear nude or
in a state of nudity in any sexually oriented business. It shall also be
unlawful to allow any person, including employees, to appear nude or in a state
of nudity in any sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.10 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age on the premises of a sexually
oriented business is prohibited.
(Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of this chapter may constitute just cause for the
suspension, revocation or non-renewal of a business license. This section does
not limit the grounds for the suspension, revocation or non-renewal of a
business license, nor does it limit the village from pursuing all available
remedies to the fullest extent provided by law.
   (B)   The penalty clause contained in §
10.99 of the village code is adopted herein by reference. Nothing herein shall
prevent the village from taking such other lawful action in any court of
competent jurisdiction as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or
noncompliance. Such other lawful actions shall include, but are not limited to,
an action for injunctive relief. All remedies and penalties provided for in
this division shall be cumulative, and the village is authorized to pursue all
remedies to the fullest extent provided by law.
(Ord. 2196, passed 11-6-2014)
CHAPTER 124: CATALYTIC CONVERTERS
Section
   
124.01   Short title
   
124.02   Business licensee prohibitions
   
124.03   Secondhand dealer prohibitions
   
124.04   Proper disposal of catalytic converters
   
124.05   Maintenance of records and advertising requirements
§ 124.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Prohibition Against Catalytic
Converters.”
(Ord. 2236, passed 7-23-2015)
§ 124.02 BUSINESS LICENSEE PROHIBITIONS.
   No licensee of any business in the village shall purchase, take or receive
from any person in pawn, pledge, trade or for money loaned, any catalytic
converter that is not attached to a motor vehicle, or any portion of a
dismantled catalytic converter that is reasonably identifiable as such.
(Ord. 2236, passed 7-23-2015)
§ 124.03 SECONDHAND DEALER PROHIBITIONS.
   No secondhand dealer shall purchase, take or receive from any person any
catalytic converter that is not attached to a motor vehicle, or any portion of
a dismantled catalytic converter that is reasonably identifiable as such.
(Ord. 2236, passed 7-23-2015)
§ 124.04 PROPER DISPOSAL OF CATALYTIC CONVERTERS.
   (A)   Catalytic converters or parts of dismantled catalytic converters shall
only be sold, disposed of or otherwise transferred:
      (1)   To another properly licensed motor vehicle repair shop;
      (2)   To a properly licensed recycling facility; or
      (3)   By returning the converter or part thereof to its original
manufacturer.
   (B)   Each catalytic converter or part thereof that is sold, disposed of or
otherwise transferred pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by a copy
of such record required pertaining to such converter or part by §
124.05 below.
(Ord. 2236, passed 7-23-2015)
§ 124.05 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS AND ADVERTISING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each motor vehicle repair shop shall maintain copies of estimates, work
orders, invoices, parts purchase orders, appraisals and schedules of charges
prepared by that repair shop. A dated invoice shall be prepared for each
catalytic converter that is removed from a vehicle. Such invoice shall include
the full name, address, telephone number and driver’s license number of the
owner of the vehicle from which the catalytic converter was removed, and the
make, model, year and vehicle identification number (“VIN”) of such vehicle.
Such copies or invoices shall be kept by the licensee for two years and, upon
request by any authorized village official, such copies or invoices shall be
made available for inspection during the shop’s regular business hours by the
Village Police Department or Village Inspector.
(Ord. 2236, passed 7-23-2015)
CHAPTER 125: NURSING HOMES; SHELTERED CARE HOMES;
HOMES FOR THE AGED
Section
   
125.01   Title
   
125.02   Definitions
   
125.03   Minimum standards
   
125.04   Cooperation with village officials
   
125.05   Compliance with Cook County Medical Examiner Ordinance
   
125.06   Records
   
125.07   Reports
   
125.08   Inspections
   
125.09   Patients relying on prayer and spiritual treatment
   
125.10   Qualifications for personnel
   
125.11   Fire emergency techniques; compulsory training
   
125.12   Location
   
125.13   License required
   
125.14   Application; contents; accompanying documents
   
125.15   Fee
   
125.16   Investigation of premises and applicant; issuance
   
125.17   Display; transfer
   
125.18   Grounds for denial
   
125.19   Revocation; denial of renewal
   
125.20   Petition for review of denial
   
125.21   Hearings
   
125.22   Village records and reports
   
125.23   Severability
§ 125.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “An Ordinance in Relation to the Licensing
and Regulation of Nursing Homes, Sheltered Care Homes and Homes for the Aged.”
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a separate meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A substance defined as such by the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570).
   COOK COUNTY MEDICAL EXAMINER ORDINANCE. That ordinance enacted by the Cook
County Board, effective December 6, 1976, establishing the office of Cook
County Medical Examiner, and the regulations promulgated by the Cook County
Medical Examiner pursuant to such ordinance, dated April 6, 1977, and entitled
“Guidelines for Hospitals and Physicians.”
   HOME ADMINISTRATOR. A person licensed as a nursing home administrator by the
Illinois Department of Registration and Education, pursuant to the Nursing Home
Administrators Licensing and Disciplinary Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 70), and
licensed by the village to operate and manage a nursing home, sheltered care
home, or home for the aged.
   HOME FOR THE AGED. Any private home, institution, building, residence, or
any other place, whether operated for profit or not, which through its
ownership or management, and as its principal objective, provides maintenance,
personal care, nursing or sheltered care to persons over the age of 60 years,
and in the conduct of which provides such service or services to not less than
three persons over 60 years of age.
   HOME REGULATED BY THIS CHAPTER. Every nursing home, sheltered care home and
home for the aged, as such terms are defined by this chapter, located within
the village.
   MAINTENANCE. Food, shelter and laundry.
   NURSE. A person licensed to practice nursing in the state.
   NURSING. Professional nursing or practical nursing, as these terms are
defined in the Illinois Nursing and Advanced Practice Nursing Act (ILCS Ch.
225, Act 65, § 50-10), for sick or infirm persons who are under the care and
supervision of licensed medical practitioners.
   NURSING HOME. A private home, institution, building, residence or other
place, whether operated for profit or not, for the medically infirm,
chronically ill, memory challenged (Alzheimers and dementia), which provides
through its ownership or management, maintenance, personal care or nursing for
three or more persons, not related to the applicant or owner by blood or
marriage; or any similar facility in which maintenance is provided to three or
more persons who, by reason of illness or physical infirmity, require personal
care or nursing, that is licensed or required to be licensed by the Illinois
Department of Public Health. An institution that is or should be classified as
a hospital, sanitarium, mental health facility or other kind of health care
facility is not a NURSING HOME. A facility devoted primarily to providing
psychiatric and related services and programs for the diagnosis and treatment
or care of two or more unrelated persons suffering from emotional or nervous
diseases is not a NURSING HOME and shall be considered a hospital or sanitarium
as defined in the Hospital Licensing Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 85, § 3), unless
licensed as a skilled nursing facility or intermediate care facility.
   OWNER. In the case of a licensee who is an individual, owner means the
licensee; and in the case of a licensee that is a firm, partnership,
association, corporation, or any other entity whatsoever, whichever is
applicable.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, firm, corporation,
municipality, political subdivision, trust or estate, or any other entity
whatsoever.
   PERSONAL CARE. Assistance with meals, dressing, transportation, movement,
bathing, or other personal needs; or general oversight of the physical and
mental well-being of the residents, exclusive of nursing, as may be required by
their condition.
   PHYSICIAN. A person licensed to practice medicine in all its branches in the
state.
   RESIDENT. Any person admitted as a patient to a nursing home, sheltered care
home, or home for the aged for care.
   SHELTERED CARE. Maintenance and personal care.
   SHELTERED CARE HOME. A private boarding home, institution, building,
residence or other place, whether operated for profit or not, which, through
its ownership or management, provides sheltered care to three or more persons
who are not related to the applicant or owner by blood or marriage; or any
similar facility in which maintenance is provided to three or more persons who,
by reason of physical infirmity, require personal care. A facility that derives
a significant amount of revenue from the treatment of the mentally ill is not a
SHELTERED CARE HOME and shall be considered a hospital or sanitarium as defined
in the Hospital Licensing Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 5, § 3). A facility devoted
primarily to providing psychiatric and related services and programs for the
diagnosis and treatment or care of two or more unrelated persons suffering from
emotional or nervous diseases is not a SHELTERED CARE HOME and shall be
considered a hospital or sanitarium as defined in the Hospital Licensing Act
(ILCS Ch. 210, Act 85, § 3).
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.03 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Village regulations. Each home regulated by this chapter shall have a
fire alarm system, an automatic sprinkler system throughout the structure, and
at least one standard fire extinguisher on every floor and basement and shall,
in all respects, comply with the building and zoning provisions and fire
regulations of the Village Code.
   (B)   Isolation rooms. Each home regulated by this chapter shall be provided
with a suitable room or rooms, approved by the county and state Health
Departments, to be used for cases of serious illness, terminal illness, and for
the isolation of contagious, infectious, epidemic or communicable diseases.
Each room thus provided shall have a stationary washstand with a supply of hot
and cold running water.
   (C)   Holding rooms or areas. Each home regulated by this chapter shall be
provided with a suitable room or area, approved by the county and state Health
Departments, for the proper care of deceased residents pending their removal,
after the resident has been pronounced dead by a physician.
   (D)   Storage of narcotics and drugs. Each home regulated by this chapter
shall be provided with secure storage, under lock and key, for all controlled
substances in the possession of the home. Each such storage area shall be
secured by at least two locks with separate keys.
   (E)   State health regulations. Each home regulated by this chapter shall
comply with the minimum standards, rules, and regulations prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Public Health pursuant to its authority under the
Nursing Home Care Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 45).
      (1)   The following rules and regulations which were published by the
Illinois Department of Public Health pursuant to its authority are incorporated
herein by reference:
         (a)   Minimum Standards, Rules and Regulations for License of
Community Living Facilities, dated December 28,1976, and as amended thereafter,
from time to time.
         (b)   Minimum Standards, Rules and Regulations for License of
Intermediate Care Facilities for the Developmentally Disabled, dated August 28,
1975, and as amended thereafter, from time to time;
         (c)   Long-Term Care Facilities - Minimum Standards, Rules and
Regulations, dated December 28,1976, and as amended thereafter, from time to
time.
      (2)   Three copies of such rules and regulations have been made available
for public inspection at the Village Hall for at least 30 days prior to the
enactment of this chapter.
   (F)   Controlled substances. No person who operates, manages or is employed
by a home regulated by this chapter shall manufacture, distribute, or dispense
any controlled substance unless such person is registered by the Illinois
Department of Registration and Education pursuant to the provisions of Illinois
Controlled Substances Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 302).
   (G)   Maintain all necessary security and security personnel 24 hours to
retain admitted patients in the facility until such patients are discharged,
signed out or discharged, whether such discharge is voluntary or involuntary.
   (H)   All nursing homes, sheltered care homes, and homes for the Aged shall
maintain the facility as an alcohol and drug free facility, except for the
administration of prescribed medication and the consumption of alcohol by
patients only, as prescribed by written guidelines.
   (I)   All nursing homes, sheltered care homes, and homes for the aged shall
secure all doors and windows to provide proper security to the residents of
such nursing homes, sheltered care homes, and homes for the aged to provide
security to neighbors adjoining the facility consistent with §
300.2900(d) (2) of the Skilled Nursing and Intermediate Care Facilities Code
(III. Admin. Code Title 77, § 300.2900(d)(2)).
   (J)   All nursing homes, sheltered care homes, and homes for the aged shall
provide proper supervision for all activities conducted outside the nursing
home building, sheltered care home building, or home for the aged building,
respectively, whether on facility’s premises or otherwise.
   (K)   All nursing homes, sheltered care homes, and homes for the aged shall
provide frequent and meaningful social activities for the residents with a
monthly copy of the activities calendar, upon request, for the Mayor or his or
her designated village employee or inspector.
   (L)   All nursing homes, sheltered care homes, and homes for the aged shall
maintain established procedures for the admission and discharge of patients
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. except for patients discharged by
a hospital and transferred directly to such facility or other bona fide medical
emergencies.
   (M)   All nursing homes, sheltered care homes, and homes for the aged shall
provide an outside recreational area for residents that are secure by fencing,
with cameras and key or similar restricted egress, with fencing for areas
within 500 feet of adjoining residential zoning districts.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.04 COOPERATION WITH VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting, operating, or employed by
any home regulated by this chapter to cooperate with the Mayor or his or her
designated village employee or inspector to minimize the danger of the
transmission of communicable diseases, in accordance with the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Cook County Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.05 COMPLIANCE WITH THE COOK COUNTY MEDICAL EXAMINER ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Notification of Cook County Medical Examiner when resident dies. Upon
the death of a resident if the death was due to unnatural causes, the Home
Administrator shall notify the office of the Cook County Medical Examiner
immediately. If the decedent was attended by a physician within the 30-day
period immediately prior to death, and the death was not due to unnatural
causes, and such physician agrees to sign the death certificate, the Home
Administrator need not notify the office of the Cook County Medical Examiner.
   (B)   Removal of dead in Medical Examiner cases. In the event that a
resident dies in a home regulated by this chapter, under circumstances that
require notification to be given to the Cook County Medical Examiner as
provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall disturb the scene
where the death of resident takes place, nor shall any person in any way
disturb the body from the position in which it is found until expressly
authorized to do so by the Medical Examiner or his or her appointed
representative, unless the movement of the deceased or of his or her personal
property is required for the purpose of preventing damage to or destruction of
the decedent’s body or his or her personal property, or is necessary to protect
life, safety or health. Whenever the Medical Examiner has lawfully assumed
jurisdiction of a body, such body shall not be removed or released from his or
her jurisdiction without his or her express consent. If the Medical Examiner
consents to the moving of the body, it may be moved from the place of death
only to a mortuary within Cook County.
   (C)   Removal of dead in non-Medical Examiner cases.
      (1)   Compliance with county regulations. No body of a deceased person
shall be removed otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the Cook
County Department of Public Health concerning the removal of dead bodies.
      (2)   Permission of county required to keep bodies over 24 hours. No body
of a deceased person shall be kept in any home regulated by this chapter longer
than 24 hours after the hour of death without permission from the Cook County
Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.06 RECORDS.
   (A)   Resident’s records.
      (1)   Individual records. Each home regulated by this chapter shall
maintain individual records for each resident and shall include the resident’s
admission record (which record shall show the name, address, age, sex, marital
status, the date of admission and discharge or disposition of each resident in
the home), a medical record, a physician’s order record, nursing notes, and a
list of the resident’s belongings.
      (2)   Permanent residents’ registry. Each home regulated by this chapter
shall maintain a permanent residents’ registry book or comparable electric
archive in which the name of each resident shall be entered in the
chronological order of admission.
      (3)   Financial transactions with resident’s funds. Each home regulated
by this chapter shall maintain accurate records of financial transactions
involving the use of each resident’s funds.
      (4)   Death records. Each home regulated by this chapter shall maintain a
written or electronic record showing the name of each person who dies while a
resident therein, the date of death, the name and address of the person to whom
the body is released, the date of removal from the home, or if finally disposed
of by the home, the date, place and manner of disposition.
   (B)   Personnel files. Each home regulated by this chapter shall maintain
accurate personnel files for all employees which shall include records of
education, experience, findings of medical examinations as to physical and
mental fitness. Daily work and time schedules of employees shall be maintained
as part of such personnel files.
   (C)   Inventory of controlled substances. Each home regulated by this
chapter which dispenses, administers or distributes any controlled substances
shall maintain an inventory of such controlled substances in accordance with
the federal and state law and rules promulgated by the Illinois Department of
Registration and Education.
   (D)   Open to Mayor or his or her designated village employee or inspector.
All records shall be open at all reasonable times for inspection by the Mayor
or his or her designated village employee or inspector or his or her duly
authorized representative.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.07 REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person conducting or operating any home
regulated by this chapter to make a report to the Mayor or his or her
designated village employee or inspector, by telephone and confirmed in writing
immediately thereafter, of any outbreak of epidemic, communicable or contagious
diseases. OUTBREAK means the occurrence of disease or illness that requires a
report to any federal, state or Cook County agency.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person conducting or operating any home
regulated by this chapter to report to the Village Police Department by
telephone any unusual occurrences, including, but not limited to: 1) missing
persons, 2) unaccounted for or the disappearance of controlled substances and
syringes, 3) incidents resulting in severe personal injury or death due to
resident altercations, 4) attempted suicides, suicides, and sudden unexplained
deaths, and 5) theft or stolen property with a value in excess of $100. A copy
of an email to any agency of the State of Illinois shall suffice in such
circumstance.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.08 INSPECTIONS.
   Every home regulated by this chapter shall be open at all reasonable times
to inspection or audit by the Village Services Director, Police Department, and
Fire Department, as often as is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.09 PATIENTS RELYING ON PRAYER AND SPIRITUAL TREATMENT.
   Nothing in the provisions of this chapter shall be construed as authorizing
the medical supervision, regulation or control of the remedial care or
treatment of residents or patients in any such home or institution conducted
for those who rely upon treatment by prayer or spiritual means in accordance
with the creed or tenets of any well-recognized church or religious
denomination; provided, however, a license shall be required and all rules,
regulations and minimum standards of this chapter shall apply thereto.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.10 QUALIFICATIONS FOR PERSONNEL.
   (A)   No person shall act as a nurse’s aide, orderly, or nurse technician in
a home regulated by this chapter, nor shall any person, under any other title,
not otherwise licensed by the state or the village, assist with the care of
patients in a home regulated by this chapter, unless the person meets the
following requirements:
      (1)   Be at least 16 years of age, temperate habits, good moral
character, honest, reliable and trustworthy;
      (2)   Be able to speak and understand the English language;
      (3)   Provide evidence of his or her employment for two years prior to
his or her present employment;
      (4)   Have completed at least eight years of grade school or provide
proof of equivalent knowledge;
      (5)   Successfully complete a course of training for nurse’s aides,
orderlies, and nurse technicians approved by the Illinois Department of Public
Health;
      (6)   Have completed a drug test showing the absence of illegal drugs;
      (7)   Had no felony convictions in the past ten years as indicated by a
background check and fingerprinting conducted by a state licensed and certified
private investigative firm; and
      (8)   Be familiar with and have general skills related to patient care in
such areas as bathing, grooming and feeding of patients; making beds; giving
enemas; and taking patients’ temperatures.
   (B)   Persons subject to the provisions of this section shall perform their
duties under the direct supervision of a registered nurse or a licensed
practical nurse.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a nurse’s aide, orderly,
or nurse, or under any other title, not licensed by the state, to assist in the
care of patients in a home regulated by this chapter, unless such person has
complied with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any home regulated by this chapter to employ
any person in the capacity of nurse’s aide, orderly, or nurse technician or
under any other title, not licensed by the state to assist in the care of
patients in such home regulated by this chapter, unless such person has
complied with the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Proof of compliance by each such employee with the requirements set
out above shall be maintained for each such employee by each home regulated by
this chapter in the individual personnel folder of each such employee.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.11 FIRE EMERGENCY TECHNIQUES, COMPULSORY TRAINING.
   The licensee of a home regulated by this chapter shall cause all employees
of such home to be trained in fire emergency techniques. Upon request by the
Fire Department, the home shall notify the Fire Department of the next
scheduled fire safety drill.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.12 LOCATION.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter construct a home regulated by this chapter
in any block in which two-thirds of the building’s fronting on both sides of
the street or streets on or along which the proposed home may face are devoted
exclusively to residence purposes, unless the owners of a majority of the
frontage in such block and the owners of a majority of the frontage on the
opposite side or sides of the street or streets on or along which said building
faces, consent in writing to the construction of any such home in such block.
Such written consents of the majority of said property owners shall be filed
with the village before a permit shall be granted for the construction of any
such home.
   (B)   No such home shall hereafter be located on a lot or plot of ground the
nearest lot line of which is within 200 feet of the nearest boundary of any lot
or plot of ground used for a school.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.13 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the regularly constituted
authorities of the United States, the state, the county or the village to
conduct or operate any home regulated by this chapter within the village
without first obtaining a state and village license therefor.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.14 APPLICATION; CONTENTS; ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The application for a license to conduct and operate a home regulated
by this chapter shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of
the Code of Crestwood relating to applications for licenses. The application
shall be under oath and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, if an individual; if a firm,
partnership or association, the name and address of every member thereof; and
if a corporation, the names and addresses of its officers;
      (2)   The location of the proposed home for which a license is sought;
      (3)   The name of the person under whose management or supervision the
home will be conducted and proof that such person is licensed as a nursing home
administrator by the Illinois Department of Registration and Education;
      (4)   The number and type of residents for which maintenance, personal
care or nursing will be provided; and
      (5)   Such information relating to the number, experience and training of
the employees of the home, and of the moral character of the applicant and
employees as the Mayor or his or her designated village employee or inspector
may deem necessary.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a written statement of
applicant’s financial good standing.
   (C)   As a condition of the issuance or renewal of a license, the applicant
shall file with the village a statement of ownership which the applicant or
licensee shall update within 30 days of any change in ownership or management.
The statement of ownership shall include:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, occupation or business
activity, business address and business telephone number regarding every person
who has entered into a contract to manage or operate or who owns or controls,
directly or indirectly, any of the shares of stock of, or any other financial
interest in, the facility which is the subject of the application or license,
and the value and percentage of such interest; and
      (2)   The address of any facility, wherever located, in which any
financial interest is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the
applicant, if the facility is required to be licensed as if it were located in
the state.
      (3)   If the licensee has delegated authority to any management company,
in whole or part for operation of its facilities, such manager shall also apply
for a village license prior to the commencement of operations and adhere to all
standards of this chapter. Further, the operator of the facility shall provide
the village 30 days’ prior notice of its intent to hire or contract with such
management company.
      (4)   The statement of ownership shall be forwarded to the Illinois
Department of Public Health after the issuance of the village license.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.15 FEE.
   The annual fee for a license to conduct a home regulated by this chapter
shall be $1,000.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.16 INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES AND APPLICANT; ISSUANCE.
   The Mayor, upon the receipt of an application for a license pursuant to this
chapter from the Village Clerk’s office, shall cause the Village Building
Inspector, the Police Department and the Fire Department to make a thorough
investigation of the premises proposed to be licensed, and if satisfied that
the required standards of §
125.03 of this chapter are met, and that the applicant is otherwise qualified,
the Mayor, pursuant to a favorable written report of findings from the above,
shall issue a license to the applicant for a period of one year to conduct such
a home of the class designated at the location specified. The license shall
state the maximum number of residents that may be accommodated at any one time.
The Mayor or his or her designated village employee or inspector shall advise
the applicant of the necessity of obtaining a license from the Illinois
Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.17 DISPLAY; TRANSFER.
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place in the hall or near the main entrance inside the home. Such
license shall be valid only in the hands of the person to whom it is issued and
it shall not be subject to sale, assignment, delegation to a surrogate or
management company, or other transfer, voluntary or involuntary, nor shall it
be valid for any premises other than those for which originally issued.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.18 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   An application for a license required by this chapter may be denied for any
of the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to meet the minimum standards prescribed in this chapter;
   (B)   Conviction of the applicant, or if the applicant is a firm,
partnership or association, of any of its members, or if a corporation, of any
of its officers or directors, or if the person designated to manage or
supervise the home, of a felony or of two or more misdemeanors involving moral
turpitude as shown by a certified copy of the record of conviction, or in the
case of a conviction of a misdemeanor by a court not of record, as shown by
evidence, or other satisfactory evidence that the moral character of the
applicant, manager or supervisor of the home is not reputable;
   (C)   Personnel insufficient in number or unqualified by training or
experience to provide proper and adequate care for the number and types of
residents;
   (D)   Insufficient financial or other resources to operate and conduct the
home in accordance with the requirements of this chapter by the owner or
operator of the home, and the minimum standards, rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder; or
   (E)   Any grounds upon which an application for a license may be denied as
prescribed in the Village Code.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.19 REVOCATION; DENIAL OF RENEWAL.
   A license may be revoked, or a renewal thereof denied, for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Abuse or neglect of a resident as defined in the Nursing Home Care
Act;
   (B)   Repeated misappropriation of the property of a resident;
   (C)   The failure to maintain an activity schedule for all residents as
required by the Nursing Home Care Act and regulations promulgated and
authorized by the Nursing Home Care Act or the Illinois Department of Public
Health’s rules and regulations referenced in §
125.03;
   (D)   Conversion of the property of a resident;
   (E)   The extreme and repeated violation of either division (J) or (K) of
this section and the Nursing Home Care Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.,
including but not limited to § 3-119 of the Nursing Home Care Act (ILCS Ch.
210, Act 45, § 3-119, which is not corrected within 90 days of the first
notice, not corrected thereafter within 30 days of a second notice or which
cannot be corrected;
   (F)   Violation of any provision of this chapter or of the minimum
standards, rules and regulations promulgated hereunder;
   (G)   The failure to provide proper security for the patient population and
the general public as required under the Nursing Home Care Act;
   (H)   The failure to remediate any nuisance to the general public and
adjoining property owners after 30 days’ written notice from the village;
   (I)   The failure to maintain all required village, county, state or federal
licenses, permits or certificates;
   (J)   The failure to maintain proper standing with the Illinois Secretary of
State for 30 days or more;
   (K)   The failure to maintain a clean, healthy and safe facility as required
by law;
   (L)   The failure to provide residents with proper security to retain
residents in the facility to the extent permitted by the Nursing Home Care Act;
   (M)   The failure to maintain all staff at the facility as required by law;
   (N)   Any grounds upon which an application for a license may be suspended,
revoked or denied as prescribed by §
110.04 of the Village Code; and
   (O)   The failure of any licensee, owner or operator of the home to comply
with the minimum standards as prescribed in this chapter or any other chapter
of the Village Code.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.20 PETITION FOR REVIEW OF DENIAL.
   In the event the application for a license required by this chapter is
denied, within ten calendar days thereafter, the applicant may file a petition
for review of the action denying the application, which petition shall be under
oath and shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.21 HEARINGS.
   Hearings on application denials, or in actions to revoke or suspend a
license issued pursuant to this chapter due to violations of this chapter or
any other section of the Village Code, shall be heard by the Mayor and held in
conformance with §
110.13.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.22 VILLAGE RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The village shall maintain a list of all licensed homes regulated by this
chapter located within the village. Each year the Village Clerk shall forward a
copy of this list to the Illinois Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 125.23 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any section of this chapter shall be invalid or unenforceable
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this chapter
shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2247, passed 9-3-2015)
CHAPTER 126: CONFLICTS WITH CERTAIN
HOME RULE ORDINANCES OF COOK COUNTY
Section
   
126.01   Minimum wage and paid sick leave
   
126.02   Definitions
§ 126.01 MINIMUM WAGE AND PAID SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Employers located within the village shall comply with all applicable
federal and/or state laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may
exist from time to time with regard to both the payment of minimum hourly wages
and paid sick leave. Employee eligibility for paid sick leave and minimum
hourly wages shall also be in compliance with all applicable federal and/or
state laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may exist from time to
time.
   (B)   No additional obligations with regard to paid sick leave or minimum
hourly wages, including, without limitation, any additional obligations by
ordinance adopted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, shall apply to
employers located within the village, except those required by federal and/or
state laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may exist from time to
time.
(Ord. 2363, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 126.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term EMPLOYEE means any
individual person permitted and/or hired to work by an employer, regardless of
the number of persons the employer employs; and the term EMPLOYER means any
person, firm or corporation employing one or more employees, or seeking to
employ one or more employees, if the employer has its principal place of
business within the village or does business within the village.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the term EMPLOYEE does not mean or
include:
      (1)   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned
by the government of the United States; or
      (2)   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe;
or
      (3)   The government of the state or any agency or department thereof.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, the term VILLAGE shall refer to the
Village of Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois.
(Ord. 2363, passed 5-18-2017)
CHAPTER 127: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
127.01   Purpose
   
127.02   Definitions
   
127.03   Cannabis business license required
   
127.04   Application
   
127.05   Investigation
   
127.06   Fees
   
127.07   Issuance of cannabis business license
   
127.08   Revocation or suspension of cannabis business license
   
127.09   Notice and hearing; appeal
   
127.10   Cannabis Control Commissioner
   
127.11   Impact agreements; impact fees
   
127.12   General regulations
   
127.13   Hours of operation
   
127.14   Cannabis dispensary regulations
   
127.15   Cannabis transporter regulations
   
127.16   Advertising and signage
 
   
127.99   Penalty
§ 127.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of this chapter to identify all cannabis business
establishments within the village to ensure efficient delivery of village
services and compliance with all zoning, building, fire and other applicable
ordinances, regulations and provisions.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act of Illinois and any subsequent
amendments, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.
   ADVERTISE. To engage in promotional activities including, but not limited
to, newspaper, radio, internet and electronic media, and television
advertising, the distribution of fliers and circulars, billboard advertising
and the display of window and interior signs. ADVERTISE does not mean exterior
signage displaying only the name of the licensed cannabis business
establishment.
   AGENT IN CHARGE. As required by the Act, a full-time agent or principal
officer of the cannabis business that is responsible for opening and closing
the business, delivery acceptance, oversight of sales and agents,
recordkeeping, inventory, training, and compliance with state and local law.
   APPLICANT. An individual or business seeking a cannabis business license
from the village or a renewal of the license.
   CANNABIS.
      (1)   Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber,
oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination.
      (2)   CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized
under the Industrial Hemp Act.
      (3)   CANNABIS also means cannabis flower, concentrate and cannabis
infused products.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. A cannabis craft grower, cultivation center, dispensary,
infuser, processor, or transporter.
   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE. A product derived from cannabis that is produced by
extracting cannabinoids, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), from the plant
through the use of propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive oil or other
typical cooking fats; water, ice, or dry ice; or butane, propane, CO2, ethanol,
or isopropanol and with the intended use of smoking or making a cannabis-
infused product. The use of any other solvent is expressly prohibited unless
and until it is approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   CANNABIS CONTAINER. A sealed, traceable, container, or package used for the
purpose of containment of cannabis or cannabis-infused product during
transportation.
   CANNABIS CONTROL COMMISSIONER. The village official with the authority to
oversee and implement the provisions of this chapter, including the awarding,
suspension and revocation or cannabis business licenses. The CANNABIS CONTROL
COMMISSIONER shall be the President or his or her designee.
   CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry,
cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. A facility operated by an organization or business that
is licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation
to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business establishments for the
purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis
seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to purchasers or to qualified
registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers, per the Act, as it may be
amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis;
including raw kief, leaves, and buds, but not resin that has been extracted
from any part of such plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin.
   CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT. A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture, topical
formulation, or another product.
   CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Act, as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. Equipment, products and materials which are intended
to be used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
   CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Act, as it may be
amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CLONE. A plant section from a female cannabis plant not yet rootbound,
growing in a water solution or other propagation matric, that is capable of
developing into a new plant.
   LIMITED ACCESS AREA. A building, room, or other area under the control of a
cannabis dispensing organization licensed under the Act and upon the licensed
premises with access limited to purchasers, dispensing organization owners and
other dispensing organization agents, or service professionals conducting
business with the dispensing organization.
   MINOR. Any individual under the age of 21 years old.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. Within the sight line with normal visual range of a
person, unassisted by visual aids, from a public street or sidewalk adjacent to
real property, or from within an adjacent property.
   PERSON. A natural individual, firm, partnership, association joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   TINCTURE. A cannabis infused solution, typically comprised of alcohol
glycerin, or vegetable oils, derived either directly from the cannabis plant or
from a processed cannabis extract. A TINCTURE is not an alcoholic liquor as
defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934. A TINCTURE shall include a
calibrated dropper or other similar device capable of accurately measuring
servings.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.03 CANNABIS BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All cannabis businesses must receive a business license from the
village in order to operate.
   (B)   Separate business licenses are required for each location and each
cannabis business establishment operating within the village.
   (C)   The licensing requirement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
any licensing and permitting requirements imposed by any other federal, state,
or local law.
   (D)   A cannabis business license is not transferable or assignable,
including without limitation, nontransferable to a different location, to a
different type of business, to a different cannabis business classification, or
to a different owner. The cannabis business license will only be issued to the
state license holder.
   (E)   By receiving a cannabis business license from the village, the
cannabis business consents to all inspections by the village that are necessary
to ensure that the cannabis business establishment is maintained and operated
in compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations and in accordance
with the information contained in the cannabis business establishment’s
business license application.
   (F)   Cannabis business licenses shall be limited in number as follows:
 
License Type                Number
Cannabis cultivation center 1
Cannabis craft grower       1
Cannabis infuser            1
Cannabis transporter        1
Cannabis dispensary         2
 
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.04 APPLICATION.
   Each cannabis business shall complete a written application, provided by the
Village Clerk, which must contain the following:
   (A)   Applicant information.
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, date of birth, home
address, telephone number, email address, and a copy of a valid state
identification of the person registering the business and anyone with a
financial interest in the cannabis business.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership/noncorporate entity, the name,
date of birth, home address, telephone number, email address, and a copy of a
valid state identification for each partner, principal, member thereof, and
anyone with a financial interest in the cannabis business.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation, the name, date of birth, home
address, telephone number, email address, and a copy of a valid state
identification of each principal officer, registered agent thereof, and anyone
with a financial interest in the cannabis business, a copy of the corporation
or LLC’s certificate of good standing issued by the Illinois Secretary of
State.
   (B)   The legal name of the cannabis business and any other names it may
operate under.
   (C)   The classification, physical location, telephone number, and internet
address of the cannabis business.
   (D)   The volume of cannabis the establishment is authorized to store or
cultivate.
   (E)   A copy of all documents submitted to the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation or the Illinois Department of Agriculture
for issuance of a state license.
   (F)   A copy of the cannabis business’s state issued license and a statement
as to whether the cannabis business is a qualified social equity applicant by
the State of Illinois.
   (G)   A copy of the special use permit issued by the Village Board.
   (H)   A copy of any documents submitted to the Village Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (I)   The proposed hours of operation for the cannabis business.
   (J)   The name, address, date of birth, and copy of state-issued agent
identification for the designated agent in charge and all other dispensing
agents.
   (K)   The property owner’s name, address, telephone number and email address
and a valid copy of the lease agreement if applicable.
   (L)   Proof of adequate insurance coverage for liability, worker’s
compensation, tenant or owner’s insurance for the premises and equipment.
   (M)   A copy of the cannabis business’s security plan that describes the
cannabis business’s plans to: (i) prevent diversion, theft, or loss of cannabis
and monetary funds (ii) monitor the activities in and around the cannabis
business and (iii) restrict access to limited access areas and restricted
access areas. The Chief of Police shall have the right to review the security
plan.
   (N)   Nonrefundable application fee of $500.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.05 INVESTIGATION.
   Once the Village Clerk has determined that the business license application
is complete, he or she shall forward the application to the Building
Commissioner and the Chief of Police for investigation.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall cause an inspection of the premises
for compliance with all applicable laws, including the building, electrical,
plumbing, health, housing, zoning and fire codes of the village, and any other
regulations of the village relating to the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause an investigation into the applicant’s
personal and criminal history and review the security plan.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.06 FEES.
   The business license fee for a cannabis business establishment shall be as
follows:
   (1)   Dispensaries: $10,000 initial license/$5,000 annual renewal.
   (2)   Cultivation centers: $10,000.
   (3)   Craft growers: $7,500.
   (4)   Transporters: $2,500.
   (5)   Infusers/processors: $10,000 initial license/$5,000 annual renewal.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.07 ISSUANCE OF CANNABIS BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The application materials, inspectional reports, background information and
any other relevant information shall be forwarded to the Cannabis Control
Commissioner, who shall issue a business license if the cannabis business
complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter. If the Cannabis
Control Commissioner denies the cannabis business license, he or she must
notify the applicant in writing within 14 days.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The Cannabis Control Commissioner may deny, refuse to renew, suspend or
revoke a cannabis business license for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation of material fact, or false statement on the
application for a cannabis business license or any subsequent renewal.
   (B)   Failure to inform the village of any changes to the information
contained in the application for a cannabis business license.
   (C)   Any outstanding debt owed to the village by the cannabis business
establishment or any of its owners, partners, officers, or board members,
including any taxes, fees, or penalties.
   (D)   Any violation of the laws of the State of Illinois or any village
ordinance.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension of the cannabis business’s state-issued
license.
   (F)   Any violation of the terms of the cannabis business’s special use
permit.
   (G)   Operating without a cannabis business license.
   (H)   A pattern of conduct that demonstrates incompetence or that the
cannabis business has engaged in conduct or actions that would constitute
grounds for discipline under the Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Taxation
Act.
   (I)   Refusing to allow the Village President, his or her designee, or any
member of law enforcement or Building Department to enter and inspect the
cannabis business, or refusing to cooperate in an investigation.
   (J)   Any fact or condition that, if had existed at the time of the original
completion of the application for a cannabis business license would have
warranted the denial of the business license.
   (K)   Any material breach of a cannabis business impact agreement.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.09 NOTICE AND HEARING; APPEAL.
   (A)   Prior to taking any adverse action against a cannabis business
license, and at least 14 days prior to hearing, the Cannabis Control
Commissioner shall issue by regular and electronic mail to the addresses listed
on the application for a cannabis business license, a written notice of
hearing. The written notice shall contain the charges made, date, time, and
location of the hearing.
   (B)   The Cannabis Control Commissioner has the authority to subpoena and
administer oaths to witnesses, hear the charges, agree to negotiated consent
orders, and issue a written order within 14 days.
   (C)   Any cannabis business that is denied a cannabis business license or
whose cannabis business license was declined to be renewed, suspended, or
revoked has the right to appeal to the Village Board.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.10 CANNABIS CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Cannabis Control Commissioner shall have the following duties and
powers:
      (1)   Prescribe forms, determine fees, and adopt rules for the
administration and enforcement of this division.
      (2)   Accept, examine, inspect, and review applications for cannabis
business licenses to determine their completeness, and notify cannabis business
establishments of any additional documents or information needed to determine
whether a cannabis business license will be issued or renewed.
      (3)   Investigate applicants for initial and renewed cannabis business
licenses.
      (4)   Examine applicants, license holders, or witnesses under oath, hear
testimony, issue subpoenas, and take evidence in any proceeding for the
suspension, discipline, revocation, or nonrenewal of a cannabis business
permit.
      (5)   Examine, inspect, and investigate the premises, operations, and
records of adult use cannabis business permit holders.
      (6)   Conduct investigations of possible violations of state and village
law.
      (7)   Enter, or authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at any
time upon any permitted premises to determine whether the cannabis business
establishment complies with all state and village regulations.
      (8)   Issue citations and levy fines for minor violations.
      (9)   Institute proceedings and revoke, suspend, or discipline any
cannabis business permit after notice and hearing for any reason enumerated
below.
      (10)   Propose and negotiate terms of impact agreements.
   (B)   The Cannabis Control Commissioner shall be given a salary of $13,000
per year as allowable by law.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.11 IMPACT AGREEMENTS; IMPACT FEES.
   The village anticipates that it will incur additional expenses and impacts
upon the village’s road systems, utility services, public safety services,
inspectional services, and permitting services. In order to minimize the
burdens on the village, applicants for licenses may be required to execute a
cannabis business impact agreement, including security requirements and impact
fees.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.12 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with law. All cannabis businesses must comply with all
State and local laws, including the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, ILCS Ch.
410, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq., building, electrical, plumbing, health, housing,
zoning and fire codes.
   (B)   Report to police. Every cannabis business must promptly, within 24
hours, document and report any loss, theft, security breach, or criminal
activity to village police.
   (C)   Inspections. It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business to refuse
entry or otherwise refuse inspection by the Mayor, his or her designee, any
member of law enforcement or building services.
   (D)   Employee identification. It shall be unlawful for an employee of a
cannabis business to engage in employment activities for the cannabis business
unless he or she displays a valid agent identification card, as required by
state law. A copy of all agent identification cards shall be forwarded to the
Village Clerk and updated as the card is renewed, suspended, revoked, or the
employee is terminated.
   (E)   Inoperable equipment. It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business to
operate if its security system, point of sale system or inventory system are
inoperable.
   (F)   Sanitary conditions. It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business to
maintain any building or equipment in an unclean or unsanitary state. All
buildings and equipment shall be free from infestation by insects, rodents, or
pests.
   (G)   Deliveries. It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business to accept
cannabis deliveries through public or limited access areas. All deliveries must
be accepted into a restricted access area with adequate security.
   (H)   Odor control. Sufficient measures and means of preventing smoke,
odors, debris, dust, fluids, and other substances from exiting a cannabis
business establishment must be provided at all times.
   (I)   Lighting. No portion of the exterior of the cannabis business shall
utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights or spot lights or any
similar lighting system.
   (J)   Minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business to
allow any person under the age of 21 years old to enter or loiter about any
cannabis business. Cannabis dispensaries authorized to sell medical cannabis
may allow qualified patients pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act over the age of 18 years old with proper identification to
enter the cannabis dispensary.
   (K)   On-site consumption. The on-site consumption of cannabis is prohibited
within a cannabis business and on the adjacent premises. The business shall be
responsible for enforcing the prohibition of on-site consumption of cannabis
under all circumstances inside and outside the business and adjacent premises.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 127.13 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business to open earlier than 9:00
a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business to close later than 9:00
p.m. No cannabis business shall allow any person other than himself or
employees to remain in the premises where cannabis is offered for sale longer
than 30 minutes after the closing hour.
   (C)   Hours of operation shall apply to all sales, delivery, and dispensing
activities of the business.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.14 CANNABIS DISPENSARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sale to minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any cannabis
dispensary to give, sell, or deliver to any minor, directly or indirectly, any
cannabis. Cannabis businesses authorized to sell medical cannabis may allow
qualified patients pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act over the age of 18 years old to purchase medical cannabis.
   (B)   Minimum employees. It shall be unlawful for a cannabis dispensary to
operate if less than two licensed employees are present.
   (C)   Prohibited dispensing. It shall be unlawful for a cannabis dispensary
to dispense cannabis through vending machines, drive through windows, or
delivery services.
   (D)   Visibility of products. It shall be unlawful for any retail cannabis,
cannabis products, or cannabis paraphernalia to be displayed or kept so as to
be visible outside the cannabis dispensary by ordinary public view.
   (E)   Storage. During hours of operation, all cannabis shall be stored in an
enclosed locked room or cabinet accessible only to authorized business agents.
When the business is closed, all cannabis and currency shall be stored in a
reinforced vault room in the restricted access area in a manner as to prevent
diversion, theft or loss.
   (F)   Packaging. Any product containing cannabis shall be pre-packaged in a
sealed, odor-proof, and child-resistant cannabis container consistent with all
regulations contained in the Act.
   (G)   Prohibited products. It shall be unlawful for any cannabis business to
sell:
      (1)   Cannabis seeds, except to those individuals showing valid
identification as a qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act.
      (2)   Clones or other live plant material.
      (3)   Any products containing alcohol, with the exception of tinctures as
allowed by state law.
      (4)   Cannabis, cannabis concentrate, or cannabis infused products in
combination or bundled with each other or any other items for one price.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.15 CANNABIS TRANSPORTER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A cannabis transporting organization agent must keep his or her
identification card visible at all times when on the property of a cannabis
business establishment and during the transportation of cannabis when acting
under his or her duties as a cannabis transporting organization agent and must
provide the identification card upon request to any law enforcement officer
engaged in his or her official duties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or individual who is not a
licensed cannabis transporting organization agent to be present in a commercial
vehicle or trailer engaged in the transportation of cannabis for a cannabis
transporter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 21 years old to be
present in a commercial vehicle or trailer engaged in the transportation of
cannabis as a cannabis transporter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a cannabis transporter or cannabis
transporting organization agent to transport cannabis anywhere other than to a
cultivation center, craft grower, infuser organization, dispensing
organization, testing facility, or otherwise authorized by law.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for an adult use cannabis transporter or cannabis
transporting organization agent to use a commercial motor vehicle with a weight
rating over 10,001 pounds.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for an adult use cannabis transporter or cannabis
transporting organization agent to operate as a cannabis transporter without a
copy of the registration and manifest for the cannabis delivery in the vehicle.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for an adult use cannabis transporter or cannabis
transporting organization agent to transport cannabis so it is visible or
recognizable from outside the vehicle.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle transporting cannabis to bear any
markings to indicate the vehicle contains cannabis or bear the name or logo of
the cannabis business establishment.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for an adult use cannabis transporter or cannabis
transporting organization agent to transport cannabis unless it is stored in an
enclosed, locked, storage compartment that is secured or affixed to the
vehicle.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.16 ADVERTISING AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business or any other person or
entity to engage in advertising that is false or misleading, promotes
overconsumption of cannabis or cannabis products, depicts the actual
consumption of cannabis or cannabis products, depicts a person under 21 years
of age consuming cannabis, makes any health, medicinal, or therapeutic claims
about cannabis or cannabis infused products, includes the image of a cannabis
leaf or bud, includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children or any other likeness to images,
characters, or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing to or
encourage consumption by persons under 21 years of age.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a cannabis business or any other person or
entity to place or maintain an advertisement of cannabis or a cannabis infused
product in any form or through any medium:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of school grounds, a playground,
a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public park or public
library, or a game arcade.
      (2)   On or in a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter.
      (3)   On or in publicly owned or publicly operated property.
   (C)   Electronic message board and temporary signs are not permitted in
connection with cannabis businesses.
   (D)   All signage must comply with the Act and village zoning and building
codes.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024) Penalty, see §
127.99
§ 127.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed an ordinance violation
and subject to a minimum fine of $100 and a maximum fine of $500. Each day a
violation occurs or continue shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.
   (B)   Every act or omission constituting a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager, agent, or
employee of any cannabis business establishment shall be deemed and held to be
the act of such employer or owner and the employer or owner shall be subject to
punishment in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by him or her personally.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-18-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY
      
135.   OFFENSES RELATING TO DECEIT
      
136.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Scope
   
130.02   Aid to an offense
   
130.03   Concealing knowledge of an offense
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 130.01 SCOPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as the laws
are applicable to village government.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of the offense
hereby defined.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE OF AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal knowledge of the commission
of any offense or to conceal knowledge of any unlawful act, as defined in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Assault
   
131.02   Battery
   
131.03   Disorderly conduct
   
131.04   Disturbing the peace
   
131.05   Assemblies; crowds
   
131.06   Public intoxication
   
131.07   Escapes; aid in escapes
   
131.08   Physical abuse
   
131.09   Burglar tools
   
131.10   Furnishing weapons and intoxicants to prisoners
   
131.11   Vagrancy
   
131.12   Possession of open containers of alcohol in public
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 131.01 ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit assault, which is hereby
defined as any conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(1)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit battery. A person commits
battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly, without legal justification
and by any means, causes bodily harm to an individual or makes physical contact
of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(2)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
    A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she does any act in such
unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another and to provoke, make or aid
in making, a breach of the peace. Acts which shall be deemed to be disorderly
conduct, and are prohibited, include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Abusive words or gestures. Uttering profane, obscene or abusive words
or performing profane, obscene or abusive gestures directed to and within the
view or hearing of another, with the intent to provoke a breach of the peace.
   (B)   Disturbing passersby. Disturbing passersby on any street, sidewalk or
other place open to the public by placing any obstruction upon or across the
same, or by throwing missiles of any kind, or by jeering at or deriding in any
other manner, with intent to disturb any person in the lawful and orderly use
of the street, sidewalk or place open to the public.
   (C)   Disturbing public assemblies. Disturbing any orderly assembly of any
kind.
   (D)   Fighting. Engaging in or encouraging a fight in any street, park or
other place open to the public.
   (E)   Keeping a disorderly place. Causing or permitting any room, house,
shop, building or place of any description (while having the control thereof)
to become the gathering place of disorderly persons, or causing or permitting
therein any unreasonable noise which breaches the peace.
   (F)   False alarms. Filing false alarms to the Police or Fire Department.
   (G)   Bomb threats. Making bomb threats.
   (H)   False reports. Filing false police reports.
   (I)   Loud noises. Making unreasonable noises that alarm or disturb another.
   (J)   Obstructing entrances. Obstructing (or remaining about) any sidewalk,
entrance to any school, church, club, or other room or building used for public
assemblies, or entrance to other places open to the public after being
requested by a police officer or any person in charge of the place to move on.
   (K)   Unlawful assembly. Assembling with two or more persons for purposes of
disturbing the public peace.
   (L)   Urinating in public. Urinating or depositing excrement upon streets,
alleys, parks, or other places open to the public.
(Ord. 2043, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, intentionally
or unnecessarily disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any neighborhood
or family, religious congregation or other assembly by loud or unusual noises,
indecent behavior, offensive or unbecoming conduct or for any person to
threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or curse, swear or
utter any obscene, vulgar or indecent language in the presence of another.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(4)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 ASSEMBLIES; CROWDS.
   (A)   Unlawful assemblies. It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to
assemble together for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of
committing an unlawful act.
   (B)   Collecting crowds. It shall be unlawful for any person to collect
within the village a crowd of people to the annoyance of the citizens thereof
or to the annoyance or injury of the public.
   (C)   Riots. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse
immediately to disperse upon an order to do so by a police officer, when two or
more persons are assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the
purpose of committing any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(5)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated or under
the influence of intoxicating liquor upon any public thoroughfare or other
public place.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(6)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 ESCAPES; AID IN ESCAPES.
   (A)   Escapes. It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense
or in lawful custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
   (B)   Aid in escape. It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist
any person to escape from lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape
from the custody of any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(7)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 PHYSICAL ABUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cruelly or inhumanely whip, injure,
beat or mistreat his or her own wife, husband, child, stepchild, ward or
apprentice or other child under his or her care.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(8)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 BURGLAR TOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
nippers of any description known as burglar’s nippers, pick-lock, skeleton key,
jimmy or other burglar’s instrument or tool of any description, unless it be
shown that the possession is innocent or for a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(9)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND INTOXICANTS TO PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or take
into jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined
or in the custody of any officer any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquor, drug or
other article without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(11)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 VAGRANCY.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person, without visible means of support and the physical
ability to work, not to seek employment or labor, or to refuse to work when
employment is offered him or her;
   (B)   For any person to seek alms as a business;
   (C)   For any person to roam about from place to place without any lawful
business;
   (D)   For any idle or dissolute person or associate of known thieves to
wander about the streets at a late and unusual hour of the night or to lodge in
any other place than is kept for lodging purposes without the permission of the
owner of the property or the person in possession thereof; or
   (E)   For any person to consort habitually with common prostitutes, habitual
drunkards or any user of narcotics.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4-(13)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry or possess any
container of wine, beer or other alcoholic liquor that is open or has a seal
broken, while on any public area in the village, unless such public area is a
permitted area under the terms of a liquor license or permit issued by the
village, or other authorization provided for under the Village Code.
(Ord. 2369, passed 7-20-2017)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
131.03 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
   (C)   Any person violating §
131.12 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
(Ord. 556, passed 7-17-1975; Ord. 1199, passed 7-26-1990; Ord. 2043, passed 4-
21-2011; Ord. 2369, passed 7-20-2017)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Malicious injury to property
   
132.02   Damage to certain properties
   
132.03   Retail theft
   
132.04   Trespassing
   
132.05   Picnics and outdoor dances
   
132.06   Posting bills
   
132.07   Letting premises for unlawful purposes
   132.08   Petty theft
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 132.01 MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, willfully and maliciously, to injure,
deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break or, in any manner, interfere with,
molest, secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or under
the control of any person.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(1)) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 DAMAGE TO CERTAIN PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Damage to village property.
      (1)   Definition. When used in this section, VILLAGE PROPERTY is defined
as any property owned by, leased to or in possession of the village, including,
but not limited to, any public building or structure, sewer, water pipe, water
hose, hydrant, motor vehicle, equipment, machinery, light poles or any tree,
grass or shrub located on or upon any public way or public park or any
sidewalk, crosswalk or pavement.
      (2)   Negligent operation of motor vehicle causing damage to property. It
shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated, park or
cause to be parked, any motor vehicle in a negligent manner causing damage or
injury to village property.
      (3)   Other damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person to
injure, damage, deface or interfere with any village property without the
knowledge and consent of the proper village official.
   (B)   Damage to other properties. It shall be unlawful for any person to
intentionally, willfully or maliciously injure, deface, mutilate, remove, pull
down, break or in any manner destroy or damage any real or personal property
belonging to another; to any cemetery or, being a part thereof, including, but
not limited to, gravestones, tombs, statues or grave coverings; or to a house
of worship, church, temple or synagogue.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(2)) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 RETAIL THEFT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONCEAL. To CONCEAL merchandise means that, although there may be some
notice of its presence, the merchandise is not visible through ordinary
observation.
      FULL RETAIL VALUE. The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
      MERCHANDISE. Any item of tangible personal property.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or
any agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of the owner or operator.
      PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Includes, but is not
limited to, the retail mercantile establishment, any common use areas in
shopping centers and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of
a merchant for the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of
the retail mercantile establishment.
      RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
      SHOPPING CART. Those push carts of the type or types which are commonly
provided by grocery stores, drugstores or other retail mercantile
establishments for the use of the public in transporting commodities in stores
and markets and, incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the store.
      UNDER-RING. To cause the cash register or other sales-recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise.
   (B)   Retail theft prohibited. No person shall commit retail theft. A person
commits the offense of retail theft when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be
carried away or transferred any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered
for sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining
the merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of
the possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full
retail value of the merchandise;
      (2)   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase the merchandise personally or in consort
with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of depriving
the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise;
      (3)   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale, in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
the merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of the merchandise;
      (4)   Under-rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the
full retail value of the merchandise;
      (5)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of the
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of the cart.
      (6)   Represents to a merchant that he, she or another is the lawful
owner of property, knowing that the representation is false, and conveys or
attempts to convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property
in exchange for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant;
      (7)   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using the device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in the retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of the merchandise.
   (C)   Attempted retail theft prohibited. No person shall commit attempted
retail theft. A person commits attempted retail theft when, with the intent to
commit a theft, he or she does any act which constitutes a substantial step
toward the commission of that offense.
   (D)   If any person:
      (1)   Conceals upon his or her person or among his or her belongings,
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
      (2)   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for
receiving payments for the merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment,
that person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred
the merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of the
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(4)) (Ord. 1157, passed 11-16-1989; Ord. 2036, passed 4-
21-2011) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, or take down any fence
or to let down any bars or to open any gate in or on the property of another
without the consent of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass within the
village upon either public or private property. Without constituting any
limitation upon the provisions of division (A) above, any of the following acts
by any person shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses
in violation of the provisions of the above paragraph and appropriate action
may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or
suppress any violation or violations of this division (B); the aforesaid
enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof or a failure or refusal to leave any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft
after being requested to leave by the person having the right.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(5)) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 PICNICS AND OUTDOOR DANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
yard, ground or grove or other real estate within the village for public
picnics or open air dances in a manner as to be an annoyance or injurious to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(6)) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any public
property, curbstone, flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk or
upon any tree, lamppost, hitchpost, telegraph pole, hydrant or upon any private
wall, door or gate without the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall,
door or gate; provided, however, that, this section shall not prevent posting
by proper village and county officials of election signs, polling place signs
and other signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of
elections.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(7)) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 LETTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him or her for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered or for any unlawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(8)) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 PETTY THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit “petty theft” within the
village. A person commits the offense of PETTY THEFT when that person
knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
   (B)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner; or
   (C)   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner; or
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property, knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her
to believe that the property was stolen, and:
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner of such use or
benefit.
(Ord. 2388, passed 11-9-2017)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
132.02(A) shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $750 for each
offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(2))
   (C)   Any person who commits retail theft, as herein defined in §
132.03, shall be subject to a fine, not to exceed $750.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
132.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not exceeding
$750.
   (E)   Any person who commits petty theft, as defined in §
132.08, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of $150 for the
first offense and $300 for any subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5-(5)) (Ord. 1157, passed 11-16-1989; Ord. 2036, passed 4-
21-2011; Ord. 2388, passed 11-9-2017)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Articles on windowsills
   
133.02   Drugs
   
133.03   Fraudulently avoiding payment of admission fees
   
133.04   Possession and/or casual delivery of cannabis; possession of drug
paraphernalia
Weapons
   
133.20   Certain weapons prohibited
   
133.21   Discharge of weapons
   
133.22   Exemptions from provisions
 
   
133.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 ARTICLES ON WINDOWSILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill,
porch or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of the building, unless the article be securely fastened or
protected by screens.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6-(2)) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 DRUGS.
   (A)   Sale to minors. No person shall knowingly sell or offer for sale,
deliver or give away to any person under the age of 17 years, unless upon
written order of parent or guardian, any substances containing any of the
following volatile solvents, where the seller, offerer or deliverer knows or
has reason to believe that the substances will be used for the purpose of
inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational
behavior or in any manner change, distort or disturb the audio, visual or
mental processes: toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, isopropanol, methyl
isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone or any other
substance which will induce symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness,
paralysis, irrational behavior or in any manner change, distort or disturb the
audio, visual or mental processes. For the purpose of this section, it shall be
presumed that any delivery of a product containing such a substance in quantity
of overdose shall be presumed to be a delivery in violation of this section.
   (B)   Use. No person shall inhale, breathe or drink any compound liquid or
chemical containing toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl
acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, trichoroathane, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl
ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone or any other substance for the
purpose of inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis,
irrational behavior or disturb the audio, visual or mental processes. For the
purpose of this section, any such condition so induced shall be deemed to be an
intoxicated condition; provided, however, that, the provisions of this section
shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who inhales, breathes or drinks the material or
substance pursuant to the direction or prescription of any doctor, physician,
surgeon, dentist or podiatrist authorized to so direct or prescribe; and/or
      (2)   Any person who inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise, in any
manner, uses any narcotic, dangerous drugs or other material or substance or
combination thereof, which material or substance is defined by any law of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, fraudulently, to enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of a
police officer engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of
public entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 POSSESSION AND/OR CASUAL DELIVERY OF CANNABIS; POSSESSION OF DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      CANNABIS. Includes marihuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocatmabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
      CASUAL DELIVERY. The delivery of not more than ten grams of any substance
containing cannabis without consideration.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 646, §§
1 et seq.), which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation
of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.), the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.), or
the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act. It includes, but is
not limited to:
         (a)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (b)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
         (d)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
         (e)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the
human body including, where applicable, the following items:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes;
            8.   Chillums;
            9.   Bongs;
            10.   Ice pipes or chillers; or
         (f)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described, is for use in
violation of this section.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess or
casually deliver any cannabis or any substance containing cannabis. This
division shall only apply to possession or casual delivery of such substance in
an amount not exceeding ten grams.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer, permit, or
allow the violation of the provisions of division (B)(1) of this section in any
motor vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard,
premises, or other area of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee,
bailee, legal possessor or occupier thereof.
      (3)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have permitted his or her
residence to be in violation of division (B)(1) of this section if he or she
knowingly authorizes, enables, or permits such possession to occur by an
invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward by failing to control
access to the residence.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to remain in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area
when said person knows, or reasonably should know, that one or more other
persons located in such motor vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment,
room, shed, yard, premises, or other area are in possession of any cannabis or
any substance containing cannabis. This division shall only apply to possession
of such substance in an amount not exceeding ten grams.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an item of
drug paraphernalia in the presence of cannabis or any substance containing
cannabis in an amount not exceeding ten grams.
   (C)   Prima facie proof. Whenever a person is present within any motor
vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or
other area of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal
possessor or occupier at the time that a violation of the provisions of
division (B) of this section occurs therein, said presence shall be prima facie
evidence that such person had knowledge of such violation.
   (D)   Medical use of cannabis. Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section to the contrary, pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act, as it maybe amended from time to time (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1
et seq.) (the "Medical Cannabis Act"), the immunities and presumptions set
forth in the Medical Cannabis Act related to the medical use of cannabis are
hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent applicable.
   (E)   Fines. Any person convicted of a violation under this section shall be
subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First violation, $100;
      (2)   Second violation, $250;
      (3)   Third violation and any violation thereafter, $750.
(Ord. 2334, passed 11-17-2016)
WEAPONS
§ 133.20 CERTAIN WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall carry, possess, sell, loan or give to any person any
blackjack, sandbag, metal knuckles or carry or possess the same with intent to
use the same unlawfully.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Toy guns; air guns. No person shall, at any time, discharge or set off
anywhere within the village or have in his or her possession for the purpose
any toy firearm, air rifle, B-B gun or any gun that discharges projectiles
either by air, spring, explosive or any other force.
   (B)   Firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any
gun, pistol or other firearm within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.22 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to sheriffs, coroners,
constables, members of the police force or other peace officers engaged in the
discharge of their official duties or to any person summoned by any of the
officers to assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while the person
so summoned is engaged in assisting the officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle that contains an
unregistered firearm, a firearm that is not broken down in a nonfunctioning
state, shall be liable to the village for a fine of $500, plus any towing and
storage fees applicable under this section. The penalty shall not apply:
         (a)   If the vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time and
the theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24 hours
after the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered;
         (b)   If the vehicle is operating as a common carrier and the
violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle;
or
         (c)   If the owner proves that the presence of the firearm was
permissible, or in the case of an unregistered firearm, the firearm was exempt
from registration under division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is
towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying himself or
herself as the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, of
the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request a vehicle
impoundment hearing to be conducted.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
133.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 for each
offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
133.20 through
133.22 shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4)
(Ord. 1617, passed 5-6-1999)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY
Section
   
134.01   Obscenity
   
134.02   Prostitution
 
   
134.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 134.01 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Obscene materials and performances.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         OBSCENE. Material, if:
            1.   It depicts or describes any of the following types of sexual
conduct:
               a.   Ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated;
               b.   Masturbation;
               c.   Excretory functions; or
               d.   Lewd exhibition of the genitals.
            2.   To the average person, applying contemporary community
standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to the
prurient interest in sex;
            3.   The material is patently offensive because it affronts
contemporary community standards in its description or representation of the
sexual conduct; and/or
            4.   The material, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value.
      (2)   Acts constituting obscenity enumerated. A person commits obscenity
when, with knowledge of the nature of contents thereof, or recklessly failing
to exercise reasonable inspection which would disclose the nature of contents
thereof:
         (a)   He or she sells within the village, any obscene book, magazine,
pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film, phonograph record,
filmstrip or slide;
         (b)   He or she offers to sell within the village, any obscene book,
magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film, phonograph
record, filmstrip or slide;
         (c)   He or she distributes or gives away within the village, any
obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture
film, phonograph record, filmstrip or slide;
         (d)   He or she offers to or attempts to give away within the village,
any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion
picture film, phonograph record, filmstrip or slide;
         (e)   He or she prints or publishes within the village, any obscene
book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film,
filmstrip or slide;
         (f)   He or she exhibits or shows within the village, any obscene
photograph, drawing, motion picture, filmstrip or slide;
         (g)   He or she produces, directs or plays a part within the village
in any obscene play;
         (h)   He or she advertises for sale within the village any obscene
book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, motion picture film, phonograph
record, filmstrip or slide;
         (i)   He or she advertises for viewing within the village, any obscene
motion picture, play, filmstrip or slide;
         (j)   He or she publicly performs any obscene act or otherwise
publicly presents an obscene exhibition of his or her body within the village;
         (k)   He or she buys or produces in the village, for resale in the
village, any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, motion
picture film, filmstrip, slide or phonograph record; and/or
         (l)   He or she buys, leases or procures in the village, for showing
in the village for gain, any obscene motion picture, filmstrip or slide.
   (B)   Obscene conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or
stool in any place open to the public view or to be guilty of any lewd,
lascivious or obscene conduct or to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or
other words in any public place or any other place where other persons are
present or to indecently exhibit any animal.
   (C)   Obscene objects. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass,
give or deliver to another any obscene, lewd or indecent mold, case or figure
or to have same in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7-(1)) (Ord. 593, passed 2-2-1976) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Soliciting or advertising for prostitution. It shall be unlawful for
any person to pursue or advertise, in any manner, his or her vocation as a
prostitute or for any person to advertise the profession of a prostitute or
solicit for a prostitute.
   (B)   House of prostitution. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
assist in the keeping of a house of ill fame or prostitution or knowingly to
reside therein or knowingly to rent, lease or permit any person to occupy any
house or room owned, leased or controlled by him or her for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7-(2)) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
134.01(A) shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7-(1)) (Ord. 593, passed 2-2-1976)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES RELATING TO DECEIT
Section
   
135.01   Swindling
   
135.02   Obtaining goods under false pretenses
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 135.01 SWINDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by use or aid of any trick or sleight-
of-hand performance or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice or device,
to win for himself or herself or for another any money or property.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8-(3)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 OBTAINING GOODS UNDER FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same or depart
without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received the
food, goods, wares and merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8-(4))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
   
136.01   Truancy
   
136.02   Curfew
   
136.03   Vandalism
   
136.04   Encouraging delinquency
   
136.05   Sale of cigarettes or tobacco
   
136.06   Abandoned refrigerators
   
136.07   Cannabis
   
136.08   Alcohol
 
   
136.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 136.01 TRUANCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. Any foster parent, or any person appointed guardian, or
otherwise awarded custody, of a minor by a court of law in the state, or any
person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the State Juvenile
Court Act, but shall not include any person appointed guardian only to the
estate of a minor.
      PARENT. The father or mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
adoption. The word PARENT, as used in this section, shall also be deemed to
mean LEGAL GUARDIAN. In the event that the minor’s parents are divorced or
separated within the meaning of the State Marriage and Dissolution of Marriage
Act, the parent having lawful physical custody of the minor shall be deemed to
be the parent authorized to give consent as required by this section.
      VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE. Illness, observance of a religious holiday,
death in the immediate family, family emergency and other situations beyond the
control of the minor as determined by the board of education in each district
or other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the parent for the
health or safety of the minor.
   (B)   Truancy prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of 18 enrolled in a public, private or parochial school within the corporate
limits of the village to absent himself or herself from attendance at school
without the permission of his or her parent or legal guardian for absences for
valid cause, as defined herein, or by the school in which the minor is
enrolled. Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty of
the offense of truancy and shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter set
forth in this chapter. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other
causes beyond the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from
school without parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission
for the absences has substantially been obtained from the parent or lawful
guardian; provided that, the permission is submitted in writing to the proper
school authorities within 24 hours of the next regularly scheduled school day
after the absence.
   (C)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal
guardian to permit his or her minor child or ward to violate this section.
(Ord. 1421, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, highway, or
other public place or way at the following times
      (1)   For persons less than 13 years of age, between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day on any day of the week.
      (2)   For persons at least 13 years of age, but not yet 17 years of age:
         (a)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother, or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than 17 years of age to perform;
         (b)   A school recreational activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois,
or both;
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adult. A citation for violation of division (A) of
this section may be issued by a police officer only if he or she reasonably
believes that a violation has occurred and none of the defenses enumerated in
division (B) apply.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate
provisions of division (A) of this section. It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that a person has violated this section if someone under 17 years
of age of whom that person has custody or control is present upon any public
assembly, building, business, street or highway, or other public place or
public way in violation of division (A) of this section, and none of the
defenses enumerated in division (B) hereof apply.
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section
shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month period; $75 for a
second violation in any 12-month period; and $200 for a third or subsequent
violation in any 12-month period.
§ 136.03 VANDALISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. Includes a person appointed guardian of the person or
given custody of a minor by a circuit court of the state or any other state,
but does not include a person appointed guardian only of the estate of a minor
or appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the State Juvenile
Court Act.
      MINOR. Includes a person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 18
years of age.
      PARENT. Includes the lawful father or mother of a minor child, whether by
birth or adoption.
      PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      PROPERTY. Includes any real estate, including improvements thereon, and
tangible personalty.
      SUFFERANCE OF VANDALISM. The failure to interfere, prohibit and prevent
the act or commission of an act of vandalism by a minor.
      VANDALISM. Includes any of the following acts:
         (a)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly damage, deface or destroy
any property of another person without his or her consent;
         (b)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, by means of fire or
explosive device, damage, deface or destroy any property of another person;
         (c)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly start a fire on the land of
another person without his or her consent;
         (d)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly deposit on the land or in a
building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb or any
offensive smelling compound and thereby interfere with the use and occupancy by
another of the land or building; or
         (e)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly and without authority enter
into any building, house trailer, motor vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any
part thereof of another person without his or her consent.
   (B)   Special hours for Halloween day. "Trick or treat" time in the village
shall occur from 3:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m.
   (C)   Vandalism prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to commit
any act of vandalism upon either public or private property within the village.
Each separate act of vandalism shall be considered as a separate violation of
this section.
   (D)   Parental responsibility.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor who resides with the parent or legal guardian to suffer or
permit the minor to commit an act of vandalism upon either public or private
property within the village.
      (2)   Each separate act of vandalism shall be considered as a separate
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) (Ord. 625, passed 11-18-1976; Ord. 2054, passed 9-15-
2011) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage,
aid or cause a child to come within the proper supervision of the legal
authorities, and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice
that a driver’s license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit
the child to operate a motor vehicle during the period that the driver’s
license is suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.05 SALE OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO.
   The following are prohibited sales, acts:
   (A)   Purchase by minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years to purchase tobacco products.
   (B)   False or altered identification. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years to misrepresent that person's identity or age, or to
use any false or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco
products.
   (C)   Unlawful possession or use of tobacco products by minors.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to
knowingly possess, consume, or use, either by smoking, ingesting, absorbing, or
chewing any tobacco product, provided that the possession by a person under the
age of 18 years under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such
person in the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home shall not be
prohibited.
      (2)   It shall be rebuttably presumed that the substance within a package
or container is a tobacco product if the package or container has affixed to it
a label which identifies the package or container as containing a tobacco
product.
   (D)   Unlawful furnishing of tobacco products to minors. It shall be
unlawful for any person to furnish to any person who is under 18 years of age,
by gift, sale, or any other means, any tobacco products.
   (E)   Affirmative defense. It shall be an affirmative defense to a
prosecution under this section that the person furnishing the tobacco product
was presented with and reasonably relied upon a document which identified the
person receiving the tobacco product as being 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 2041, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.06 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful to abandon any refrigerator, freezer or icebox or other
device having an automatic lock on a compartment large enough to enclose a
human being in any place accessible to children without first removing the
doors of the refrigerator, freezer or icebox.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.07 CANNABIS.
   The following are prohibited sales, acts:
   (A)   Purchase by minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years to use, own or possess cannabis.
   (B)   False or altered identification. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years to misrepresent that person's identity or age, or to
use any false or altered identification for the purpose of using, owning or
possessing cannabis.
   (C)   Unlawful possession or use of cannabis or cannabis by-products by
minors.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to
knowingly possess, consume or use, either by smoking, ingesting, absorbing or
chewing any cannabis product.
      (2)   It shall be rebuttably presumed that the cannabis within the reach,
vehicle or residence where a minor is located is in the possession of the
minor.
   (D)   Not permitted or endorsed by village. Nothing contained herein shall
be deemed to make the sale, use or possession by a person over the age of 18
legally permissible or endorsed by the village.
(Ord. 2044 , passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.08 ALCOHOL.
   The following are prohibited sales, acts:
   (A)   Purchase by minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years use, own, possess alcohol.
   (B)   False or altered identification. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years to misrepresent that person's identity or age, or to
use any false or altered identification for the purpose of using, owning or
possessing alcohol.
   (C)   Unlawful possession or use of alcohol by minors.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to
knowingly possess, consume, use or ingest any alcohol product;
      (2)   It shall be rebuttably presumed that the alcohol within the reach,
vehicle or residence where a minor is located is in the possession of the
minor.
      (3)   Not permitted or endorsed by village. Nothing contained herein
shall be deemed to make the sale, use or possession by a person over the age of
18 and under the age of 21 legally permissible or endorsed by the village.
(Ord. 2045, passed 4-2011) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The first incident of truancy, as per §
136.01, shall be handled according to the policy and procedure of the school
and by the school authorities in which the minor is enrolled. The incident
shall be documented and retained by the school district to be supplied to the
court at any subsequent hearings for further violations of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent violations will result in the minor and/or the
parent or legal guardian being appropriately cited and brought before the
court. Conviction for the offense can result in a fine of not less than $50,
nor more than $500 per violation. In addition to, or in lieu of, the penalties
set forth in this division (B), the violator may be required by the court to
serve a period of community service as described in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Any person that shall violate any of the provisions of §
136.01 may be required, in lieu of a fine, to perform a period of community
service not to exceed 72 hours per violation. Community service may consist of
manual labor assigned by the village to be done in the village, or any cause or
project that the village may deem suitable to help cause a positive behavioral
change. The court is asked to be firm, but flexible, in the assignment of
community service with the intent to quickly modify negative behavioral traits.
The community service shall not be scheduled during school hours on days when
students are required to be in attendance in school.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
136.02 shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
136.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not exceeding $500
for each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
   (E)   Any person violating §
136.05 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $750.
   (F)   Any person violating §
136.07 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $750.
   (G)   Any person violating §
136.08 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 625, passed 11-18-1976; Ord. 1421, passed 10-20-1994; Ord. 2041, passed
4-21-2011; Ord. 2044, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2045, passed 4-21-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOODS
      
152.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
153.   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
      
154.   TENTS
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   PLANS
      
157.   STORM WATER PIPES AND STRUCTURES
      
158.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL; GRADING
      
159.   ZONING
      
160.   TEMPORARY USES
      
161.   VACANT BUILDINGS
      
162.   ADULT-USE CANNABIS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Adoption of Codes
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Electrical Code
   
150.03   Plumbing Codes
   
150.04   Fire Code
   
150.05   Mechanical Code
General Building Regulations
   
150.15   Compensation for Inspectors
   
150.16   Occupancy certificates
   
150.17   Fees
   
150.18   Construction specifications
   
150.19   Reserved
   
150.20   Reserved
   
150.21   Sprinkler systems
   
150.22   Rain gutters and roofing drains in residential districts
   
150.23   Occupancy of house trailers during building construction
   
150.24   House numbers
   
150.25   Hours of construction
   
150.26   Roofs
Streets, Driveways and Other Improvements
   
150.35   Driveways in residential districts
   
150.36   Streets, driveways and improvements in other zoning districts
   
150.37   Private streets and drives
   
150.38   Outdoor lighting
Handicapped Regulations in Public Buildings
   
150.65   Application of provisions
   
150.66   Entrances, doors and doorways
   
150.67   Stairways
   
150.68   Floors and ramps
   
150.69   Suspended lights and fixtures
   
150.70   Toilet rooms
   
150.71   Miscellaneous facilities required
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   (1)   International Building Code (2015 edition) (“IBC 2015"). Three
copies of that certain document being marked and designated as IBC 2015 have
been on file with the Village Clerk for 30 days for public use, inspection and
examination. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions
and terms of the IBC 2015 are hereby adopted and expressly incorporated herein
by reference as the village Building Code with any deletions, insertions and
amendments prescribed herein. The Fire Prevention Code as contained in and
provided in §
150.04 of the village code is expressly incorporated as a part of the village
Building Code as if fully stated and printed herein.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY appears in the IBC 2015, it shall
be held to mean the Village of Crestwood, Illinois.
         (b)   Wherever the term CORPORATION COUNSEL appears in the IBC 2015,
it shall be held to mean the Attorney for the Village of Crestwood, Illinois.
         (c)   Wherever the phrase “[name of jurisdiction]” or the word
JURISDICTION appear in the IBC 2015, they shall be deemed to refer to the
Village of Crestwood, Illinois.
   (B)   All uses allowed as permitted, special or accessory uses in the Heavy
Industrial District of the village shall be subject to and required to comply
with the performance standards attached as Exhibit A to the ordinance codified
herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-1A-1) (Ord. 604, passed 5-6-1976; Ord. 705, passed 9-21-1978;
Ord. 1787, passed 11-6-2003; Ord. 2361, passed 5-4-2017)
§ 150.02 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Conductors.  Conductors normally used to carry current shall be of
copper only. Where conductor sizes are given in this code, they shall apply to
copper conductors. No other materials are to be used from the point of
attachment to service drop.
   (B)   Minimum size.  Wire size shall be smaller than number 8 wire for
ranges of 83/4 KW or more rating, nor smaller than number 12 for other loads.
Under no circumstances shall 14 gage wire be used. All wire must be installed
in metal conduit.
   (C)   Couplings and connectors.  Threadless couplings or connectors used
with tubing shall be made up tight. At or below grade, all couplings shall be
watertight, compression-type fittings if they are to be installed in wet places
or buried in masonry, concrete or fill. Concrete-tight, crimp-type couplings or
connectors may be installed at heights exceeding eight feet above grade,
provided they are installed in latex poured floors, or buried in masonry or
wood decks.
(Ord. 2360, passed 5-4-2017; Ord. 2381, passed 10-5-2017)
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODES.
   (A)   The 2015 edition of the International Plumbing Code is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as the village Plumbing Code, with the
deletions, insertions and amendments prescribed in
Ch. 150 of the village code.
   (B)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Plumbing permit fees shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: $50 for each single-family dwelling
unit for a maximum of eight fixture units, and an additional fee of $10 for
each fixture unit in excess of eight units;
         (b)   Multiple-family dwellings: $50 for each and every dwelling unit
as defined by the building ordinances and Zoning Code of the village with a
maximum of five fixtures per dwelling unit, and an additional charge of $10 for
each fixture in excess of five fixtures per dwelling unit.
         (c)   Commercial, industrial, schools, rest homes, shelter care
facilities, nursing homes, hospitals and other applicants not heretofore
designated: $100, plus $20 for each and every fixture in excess of three
fixtures.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, FIXTURE shall be defined to include
floor drains, downspouts, sill cocks, water heaters and water pumps, and two
washing machines shall be computed as “one fixture”.
(Prior Code, § 8-1C-2)
   (C)   Specifications for plumbing fixtures and appurtenances.
      (1)   Service pipes. The water service from the street main to the
building shall be of copper (type K) or cast iron service pipe.
      (2)   Waste and vent stacks.
         (a)   Aboveground waste and vent stacks. All waste and vent stacks
above the ground shall be of cast iron, galvanized, copper D.W.V. or plastic
P.V.C. - D.W.V.
         (b)   Underground waste pipes. All underground waste pipes inside the
building and five feet outside shall be cast iron soil pipe.
         (c)   Main waste stacks. The main waste stack in all buildings shall
be no smaller than four inches in diameter, except in single-family residences,
where three-inch diameter pipe of similar type shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 8-1C-3)
   (D)   Metered water; flushing sewers; water-saving plumbing fixtures.
      (1)   Metered water required. All new water services shall be metered.
New services include, but are not limited to, water service in new construction
of all types.
      (2)   Flushing sewers. Flushing of sanitary sewers with potable water
shall be performed through the use of a high velocity-type sewer jet.
      (3)   Water-saving plumbing fixtures.
         (a)   Plumbing fixtures generally. In all new construction and in all
repair and/or replacement of water-using fixtures, only fixtures not exceeding
the following flow rates and/or water usage shall be installed. These ratings
are based on a pressure at the fixture of 40 to 50 psi:
 
Water closets, tank type        3.0 gal. per minute
Water closets, flushometer type 3.0 gal. per minute
Urinals, tank type              3.5 gal. per flush
Urinals, flushometer type       3.0 gal. per flush
 
         (b)   Lavatories for public use. In addition to the requirements in
division (D)(3)(a) above, in all new construction and in all repair and/or
replacement of fixtures, faucets of lavatories located in restrooms intended
for public use shall be of metering or self-closing type.
         (c)   Car washes. In all new construction and replacement of fixtures,
car wash installations shall be equipped with a recycling system on the wash
water unit and the rinse cycle unit.
         (d)   Closed system air conditioning. In all new construction and in
the replacement and in all new remodeling, closed system air conditioning shall
be installed.
(Prior Code, § 8-1C-4)
   (E)   Cross-connection control.
      (1)   Plumbing installation requirements. All plumbing installed within
the village shall be installed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, 77
Ill. Administrative Code 890.
      (2)   Backflow prevention devices. If, in accordance with the State
Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Superintendent of Public Works, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent of Public Works will give notice to the
water customer to install an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his or her own expense, install an approved device at a location and
in a manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental
Protection Agency and all applicable village regulations and shall have
inspections and tests made of the approved devices upon installation and as
required by the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency and
village regulations.
      (3)   Cross-connection approval required. No person shall establish or
permit to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection
whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply, other than the regular
public water supply of the village, may enter the supply or distribution system
of the village unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
      (4)   Surveys and investigations of industrial properties. It shall be
the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. The surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years or as
often as the Superintendent of Public Works shall deem necessary. Records of
the surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five years.
      (5)   Inspections; entry powers. The approved cross-connection control
device inspector shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross-connections, and the Public Works Superintendent or his or her authorized
agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served
by a connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the
village for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Superintendent of Public Works any information which he or she may request
regarding the piping system or systems or water use on the property. The
refusal of the information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the
Superintendent of Public Works, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this section.
      (6)   Discontinuance of service; reconnection fee.
         (a)   The Village Superintendent of Public Works is hereby authorized
and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof,
the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to the property shall not be restored until the conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section and until a
reconnection fee of $1,000 is paid to the village.
         (b)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when
the Superintendent of Public Works is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. The action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
         (c)   Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply; provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the
Superintendent of Public Works or the State Environmental Protection Agency,
the action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply.
         (d)   Neither the village, its Superintendent of Public Works or its
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of the customer’s water supply
in accordance with the terms of this section, whether or not the termination
was with or without notice.
      (7)   Liability for costs. The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or
back-pressured material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of
the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or
an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device or a device which has
been bypassed, shall bear and pay the cost of clean up of the potable water
supply system.
(Prior Code, § 8-1C-5)
   (F)   Pursuant to § 3730.307(c)(4) of the Illinois Administrative Code (17
Ill. Adm. Code 3730.307), and subject to the Illinois Plumbing Code (77 Ill.
Adm. Code 890), be it hereby ordained that in the village, all new plumbing
fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after the effective date of this
section shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency WaterSense Program), when such fixtures are
available.
(Ord. 1211, passed 10-4-1990; Ord. 2344, passed 2-9-2017; Ord. 2360, passed 5-
4-2017)
§ 150.04 FIRE CODE.
   (A)   International Fire Code (2015 edition) (“IFC 2015") and select
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) codes and standards (“Select NFPA
Codes and Standards”). Three copies of that certain document being marked and
designated as IFC 2015 and three copies of that certain document being marked
and designated as “Select NFPA Codes and Standards” have been on file with the
Village Clerk for 30 days for public use, inspection and examination. The
“Select NFPA Codes and Standards” on file with the Village Clerk include the
following:
      (1)   NFPA 10: Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers (2013 edition).
      (2)   NFPA 13: Standard for Installation of Sprinkler Systems (2016
edition).
      (3)   NFPA 13D: Standard for Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One-
and Two- Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes (2016 edition).
      (4)   NFPA 13R: Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems in
Low-Rise Residential Occupancies (2016 edition).
      (5)   NFPA 14: Standard for Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems
(2016 edition).
      (6)   NFPA 15: Standard for Water Spray Fixed Systems for Fire Protection
(2017 edition).
      (7)   NFPA 16: Standard for Installation of Foam-Water Sprinkler and
Foam-Water Spray Systems (2015 edition).
      (8)   NFPA 20: Standard for Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire
Protection (2016 edition).
      (9)   NFPA 24: Standard for Installation of Private Fire Service Mains
and Their Appurtenances (2016 edition).
      (10)   NFPA 25: Standard for the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of
Water-Based Fire Protection Systems (2017 edition).
      (11)   NFPA 72: National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code (2016 edition).
      (12)   NFPA 96: Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of
Commercial Cooking Operations (2017 edition).
      (13)   NFPA 1123: Code for Fireworks Display (2014 edition).
      (14)   NFPA 1124: Code for Manufacture, Transportation, Storage of
Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (2017 edition).
      (15)   NFPA 101: Life Safety Code (2015 edition).
   (B)   Adoption by reference. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the IFC 2015 and the “Select NFPA Standards
and Codes” are hereby adopted and expressly incorporated herein by reference as
the Crestwood Fire Prevention Code with any deletions, insertions and
amendments prescribed herein. To the extent that the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, or terms of the IFC 2015 differ from those of the
“Select NFPA Standards and Codes,” the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of the “Select NFPA Standards and Codes” shall apply.
      (1)   “Under the International Fire Code 1204.31 Perimeter Pathways
1204.2.12 & 1204.2.11 Access and pathways to roof access pathways and spacing
requirements shall be provided in accordance with sections 1204.1 through
1204.3.3. Pathways shall be over areas capable of supporting Firefighters
accessing the roof pathways shall be located in area without minimal
obstructions such as vents, pipes or mechanical equipment. With that being
said, the village would like to make an Addendum to the Fire Code Ordinance,
that a three foot setback be added to the Code, from the gutters for the
ability for safe access to Firefighters.”
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY appears in the IFC 2015 and/or the
“Select NFPA Standards and Codes,” it shall be held to mean the Village of
Crestwood, Illinois.
      (2)   Wherever the term CORPORATION COUNSEL appears in the IFC 2015 and/
or the “Select NFPA Standards and Codes,” it shall be held to mean the Attorney
for the Village of Crestwood, Illinois.
      (3)   Wherever the word FIRE OFFICIAL appears in the IFC 2015 and/or the
“Select NFPA Standards and Codes,” it shall be held to mean the Crestwood Fire
Inspector, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      (4)   Wherever the phrase “[name of jurisdiction]” or the word
JURISDICTION appear in the IFC 2015 and/or the “Select NFPA Standards and
Codes,” they shall be deemed to refer to the Village of Crestwood, Illinois.
   (D)   Pursuant to 17 Ill. Adm. Code 3730.307(c)(4) and subject to the
Illinois Plumbing Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 890), be it hereby ordained that in
the village, all new plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed
after the effective date of this section shall bear the WaterSense label (as
designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency WaterSense Program),
when such fixtures are available.
(Ord. 2326, passed 9-21-2016; Ord. 2362, passed 5-4-2017; Ord. 2667, passed 1-
19-2023)
§ 150.05 MECHANICAL CODE.
   The International Mechanical Code (2015 edition) is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as the village Mechanical Code with the
deletions, insertions and amendments prescribed in Ch. 150 of the village code.
(Ord. 2360, passed 5-4-2017)
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 COMPENSATION FOR INSPECTORS.
   The following compensation will be paid to inspectors as designated:
   (A)   Plumbing Inspectors. The Plumbing Inspectors will be paid a
compensation of $5 for the inspection of the following described: eight
plumbing fixtures, or less, in a commercial, industrial, school, church,
hospital, clinic, sanitarium or rest home: two water closets, two lavatories,
one urinal, one hot water tank, one exterior sill cock, one utility sink,
including the following attachments to each of the fixtures, as applicable:
floor drain, downspout and water pump. Additional compensation of $1 per
fixture will be paid to the Plumbing Inspector for the inspection of each
fixture in excess of the eight fixtures heretofore described.
   (B)   Electrical Inspectors. The Electrical Inspector will be paid a
compensation for inspections of industrial buildings, commercial buildings,
schools, churches, hospitals, clinics, sanitariums or rest homes, computed as
follows: 15% of the electrical permit fee as provided by the Village Electrical
Code or $125, whichever amount is less.
   (C)   Residential Building Inspectors.
      (1)   For inspections of single-family residential homes, Electrical and
Plumbing Inspectors will each be paid a compensation of $5 for an inspection.
      (2)   For inspections of multiple-family dwelling unit buildings, as
defined in Chapter 159 of this code, Electrical and Plumbing Inspectors will
each be paid a compensation computed as follows: $3 for each dwelling unit
inspected within the multiple-family building.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 776, passed 10-18-1979)
§ 150.16 OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Certificate required. No building hereinafter erected or structurally
altered and no dwelling unit within the building shall be occupied for any
purpose until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building
Commissioner, and a separate certificate of occupancy shall be required for
each dwelling unit within all multiple-family residential buildings, as defined
by the Zoning Ordinance and Official Plan of the village. Every certificate of
occupancy issued shall state that the new occupancy complies with the
applicable provisions of the village code, except as stated in the certificate
or except for variations and/or nonconforming uses recited.
   (B)   Application for certificate. Applications for certificates of
occupancy shall be filed with the Village Building Commissioner and contain the
information as required to identify the building and/or dwelling unit for which
the certificate of occupancy is requested, and in the case of dwelling units
within all multiple-family dwelling buildings, all applications for
certificates of occupancy shall also contain a designation of the locations of
all smoke detectors as required by §§
150.50 and
150.51.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 678, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 150.17 FEES.
   The following schedule of fees shall apply to the building and other permits
stated herein.
   (A)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Fee schedule.
         (a)   New construction. The following schedule of fees shall apply to
the building and other permits stated herein:
 
Single-family dwellings   $.10 per square foot
Multiple-family dwellings $5 per $1,000 of building valuation
Commercial and industrial $5 per $1,000 of building valuation
 
         (b)   Additions to existing single-family dwellings.
Rooms and dormers                     $.05 per square foot
Breezeways                            $.06 per square foot
Patio roof, carport roof              $5.00
Separate garages or attached garages  $.04 per square foot, with a minimum
                                      permit fee of $15.00
Driveway, patio, sidewalks and garage $5.00
flooring
Storage shed                           
   70 square feet or less          No charge
   70 square feet or less with pad $5.00
   In excess of 70 square feet     $.05 per square foot
Basements                             $.06 per square foot
 
         (c)   Additions to existing structures other than single-family
dwellings.
 
Multiple-family dwellings, hospitals, schools, rest $.05 per square foot
homes
Commercial and industrial buildings                 $4.00 per 1,000 cubic feet
 
         (d)   Repairs.
 
Permit fee for repairs to roofs, walls, floors and any or all portions of $5.00
existing structures
 
         (e)   Liquid or gaseous storage tanks.
 
Building permit fee for the construction of 1/10¢ per gallon of storage area
liquid or gaseous storage tanks
 
         (f)   Parking lots in industrial and commercial zoning use districts.
The permit fee for the construction of parking lots in industrial and
commercial zoning use districts, including the replacement and repair thereof,
shall be computed, due and payable as follows:
 
For a
parking
lot of
dimensions $.01 per square foot of parking lot area with a minimum permit fee of $10.00
of 10,000
square
feet or
less
For a
parking
lot of
dimensions $100.00 plus an additional 1/2¢ per square foot of parking lot area for each
in excess  square foot exceeding 10,000 square feet.
of 10,000
square
feet
 
      (2)   Exemptions for seniors. The Mayor and Board of Trustees, by
resolution adopted, may waive all of any portion of the permit fees required by
division (A) for additions and/or repairs to existing dwellings owned and
occupied as a homestead by residents of the village of the age of 65 years or
more which qualify for a homestead property tax exemption pursuant to the laws
of the state.
      (3)   Building valuation and construction costs.
         (a)   The building valuation for permit fees is established as the
construction cost of building;
         (b)   The construction cost of multiple family shall be established as
follows: minimum $50 per square foot of living area;
         (c)   The construction cost of commercial and industrial shall be
established as follows: minimum $60 per square foot of living area; and
         (d)   All usable floor space including, but not limited to: basement,
first floor, balconies, storage areas and additional stories, to be included in
computing the total square footage for purposes of this section.
      (4)   Inspection fees. The following inspection fees are established and
shall be collected from the builder at the time of a building permit being
issued:
         (a)   Inspection fee for a single family shall be $400 for all
inspections;
         (b)   Inspection fee for multiple family shall be $50 per unit for all
units; and
         (c)   Inspection fee for commercial and industrial shall be $800 for
all inspections.
   (B)   Inspection fees. The following schedule of fees shall be paid for and
apply to the required inspections:
      (1)   Parking lots and driveways. For the inspection of parking lots and/
or driveways adjoining commercial and/or industrial buildings or upon
commercial and/or industrial sites, including schools, churches, hospitals,
clinics, sanitariums or rest homes, a fee computed as follows: $5.00 for said
parking lots and/or driveways of 10,000 square feet or less, plus an additional
$.50 for each 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof exceeding 10,000 square
feet.
      (2)   Central air conditioning units.
 
Inspection of central air- conditioning units $5.00
 
   (C)   Moving or demolishing buildings. The following schedule of fees shall
apply to moving or demolishing buildings:
      (1)   Moving buildings. The amount of the fee to be charged for moving a
building on or over a public street or alleyway shall be computed upon the size
of the building to be moved and the distance of the removal. The fees shall be
determined by the Board of Trustees and Mayor, and a recommendation as to the
amount of said fee shall be submitted by the Village Building Commissioner. No
fee shall be less than $50.00.
      (2)   Demolishing buildings. The fee for demolishing all buildings shall
be $15.00.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 510, passed 3-21-1974; Ord. 547, passed 4-17-1975;
Ord. 703, passed - -1978; Ord. 738, passed 6-7-1979; Ord. 1807, passed 3-4-
2004)
§ 150.18 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Building materials in certain zoning districts.
      (1)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District; first story exterior walls.
         (a)   All exterior walls of the first story, as defined in §
159.004, of any residence and attached garage located in an R-1 Single-Family
Residential Zoning District shall be constructed with a face brick exterior.
         (b)   No first story exterior walls of any building located in an R-
1 Single-Family Residential Zoning District shall be constructed of block,
stucco, synthetic brick veneer, metal or wood, or any combination thereof.
      (2)   R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District.
         (a)   Concrete floors. All floors, other than ground floor slabs,
constructed and installed in buildings located in R-2 Multiple Family
Residential Zoning Districts, as defined in §
159.004, shall be of reinforced, pre-stressed concrete, on precast joists, with
a minimum floor thickness of not less than five inches.
         (b)   Exterior walls.
            1.   All exterior walls of any building (including garages) located
in an R-2 Multiple-Family Zoning District shall be constructed of solid masonry
with face brick exterior.
            2.   No exterior walls of any building located in an R-2 Multiple-
Family Zoning District shall be constructed of blocks, stucco, brick veneer,
synthetic brick veneer, metal or wood, or any combination thereof.
      (3)   Commercial, light industry and heavy industry districts; exterior
walls.
         (a)   All exterior walls of any one story building constructed in a
Commercial Zoning District, shall be constructed with a face brick exterior.
         (b)   All exterior walls of any building in excess of one story in a
Commercial Zoning District shall be constructed of solid masonry with face
brick exterior.
         (c)   All exterior walls of any building in excess of one story in a
Light Industrial or Heavy Industrial District shall be construed of solid
masonry and pre-cast with exterior insulated finishing systems (EIFS) on the
second or higher level.
         (d)   Except as provided above, no exterior walls of any building
located in a Commercial District, Light Industrial or Heavy Industrial District
shall be construed of block, stucco, synthetic, metal or wood, or any
combination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 521, passed 9-19-1974; Ord. 819, passed 11-6-1980;
Ord. 2361, passed 5-4-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19 RESERVED.
§ 150.20 RESERVED.
§ 150.21 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Inspection and approval required. No sprinkler plan or system shall be
installed unless the plans for same have been approved by the Village Building
Inspector, and no sprinkler system shall be maintained or operated unless
inspected, tested and approved by the Village Building Inspector.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Inspection and approval of sprinkler plans and system. Fees for the
inspection and approval of sprinkler plans and sprinkler systems shall be as
follows:
 
First 100 sprinkler heads or less contained in the system              $100
Each and every additional 100 or less sprinkler heads in excess of 100 $10
sprinkler heads in the sprinkler system
 
      (2)   Testing fire pumps. A fee for testing fire pumps used in connection
with a sprinkler system shall be paid, computed as follows: $25 for each 50-
gallon pumping capacity per minute.
      (3)   Waiver of fees. Permit fees aforesaid may be waived upon
application to the Board of Trustees and Mayor, in their discretion, for any
building used solely as a school or by a religious organization.
   (C)   Automatic sprinkler system.
      (1)   Every multiple-family residential building, hereinafter constructed
or remodeled, shall be equipped with automatic sprinkler systems.
      (2)   The installation of automatic sprinkler systems in single-family
detached residential buildings shall not be required. If the owner of a single-
family detached residential building installs automatic sprinkler systems, then
the village shall waive applicable building permit fees.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7) (Ord. 2362, passed 5-4-2017)
§ 150.22 RAIN GUTTERS AND ROOFING DRAINS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Rain gutters and drains required. It shall be unlawful to construct,
erect, build and/or maintain any building in an R-1 or R-2 Residential Zoning
District, as defined by §§
159.080 through
159.084 and
159.095 through
159.099, without the installation and maintenance of rain gutters and drains
upon the roofs of the building.
   (B)   Minimum size. No rain gutter or drain installed, constructed, erected
and/or maintained upon any building located in an R-1 Zoning District shall be
less than four inches in diameter. No rain gutter or drain installed,
constructed, erected and/or maintained upon any building located in an R-
2 Zoning District shall be less than six inches in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8) (Ord. 555, passed 7-3-1975) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 OCCUPANCY OF HOUSE TRAILERS DURING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Temporary occupancy permitted. Any person who has received a building
permit for the construction of a home on premises within the village and who
has begun actual construction thereof and desires to occupy a house trailer on
the premises during construction may temporarily occupy the house trailer under
the terms and provisions of this section upon receiving a permit therefor.
   (B)   Application for permit; bond.
      (1)   The person shall make a regular application for a temporary permit
to occupy a house trailer to the Village Board of Trustees. The application
shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The address of his or her property;
         (c)   The village building permit number;
         (d)   The name and address of his or her building contractor;
         (e)   The date on which construction was begun;
         (f)   The estimated date of completion;
         (g)   The type and size of the house trailer for which a permit is
requested;
         (h)   The names and ages of all person who will occupy the trailer;
         (i)   The sanitary facilities which will be available; and
         (j)   A full statement of the circumstances making it necessary for
the applicant to occupy the trailer.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a cash bond in the sum of
$300 to guarantee full compliance with this section.
   (C)   Investigation of applicant; issuance of permit. The application shall
be investigated by the Board of Trustees or a committee of the Board to which
the application may be referred. If the Board of Trustees determines that a
real need exists for the applicant to occupy the house trailer during the
construction of his or her home, the Board shall approve the application, fix
the time, not to exceed six months, for which the temporary permit shall be
issued and shall direct the Village Clerk to issue the permit.
   (D)   Expiration of permit.
      (1)   Every person receiving a permit under this section shall cease
occupancy of the trailer and remove it from the premises immediately upon the
expiration of the term of his or her permit and his or her cash bond shall then
be refunded to him or her. If he or she has not so vacated and removed the
trailer on the expiration date of his or her permit, then cash bond shall be
retained by the village as an additional penalty for his or her violation of
this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to occupy the house trailer or to permit it to
remain on the premises after the expiration of the permit issued therefor, and
each day on which a house trailer is occupied or permitted to remain after the
expiration date shall be a separate and distinct violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   House numbers required. Each house in the village shall be designated
by a house number, which number shall be visible in the front thereof and be of
a size and clarity as to be easily deciphered from the curb line of the street.
   (B)   Assignment of numbers. A number shall be assigned to each house by the
Building Commissioner and shall be determined in accordance with the numbering
system currently prevailing in the City of Chicago, being merely an extension
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 150.25 HOURS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct any construction operation, including the
delivery of equipment, supplies or materials, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 8:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, and between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays unless the construction operation is
necessary to prevent property damage and prior written approval is given by the
Village Services Director or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2010, passed 5-20-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 ROOFS.
   All roofs installed in the Village of Crestwood after the date of the
enactment of this section, with a roof pitch of five inches on a 12 inch scale
or less (commonly referred to in the building industry as a 5/12 pitch for
roof), shall have installed an ice and water shield barrier that consists of at
least two layers of underlayment cemented together or a self-adhering polymer
modified bitumen sheet shall be used in lieu of normal underlayment and extend
from the lowest edges of all roof surfaces to a point at least 72 inches inside
the exterior wall lining of the roof and in all roof valleys. Such product
shall comply with the minimum requirements of underlayment with ASTM D 266,
Type I or ASTM D 4869.
(Ord. 2586, passed 1-21-2021)
STREETS, DRIVEWAYS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS
§ 150.35 DRIVEWAYS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Construction specifications. All residential buildings constructed in
R-1 and R-2 Residential Zoning Districts of the village shall have a paved
driveway extending from the street to the garage, carport and off-street
parking site. The driveways shall be constructed in accordance with the State
of Illinois Standard Specifications and the Village of Crestwood Standard
Construction Detail Sheet.
   (B)   Time of installation. All driveways required pursuant to this section
shall be constructed and completed prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy and prior to the occupancy of the residential dwelling unit or units;
however, upon written request by the property owner to the Building
Commissioner, accompanied by a cash escrow, as determined by the Building
Commissioner, the Commissioner may extend the time for installation and
construction of the driveway to a date not more than 180 days from the date of
issuance of an occupancy permit. The written request and cash deposit shall
provide that the amount deposited shall be returned to the depositor upon
proper construction and installation of the aforesaid driveway and in the event
of the failure of the property owner and/or occupant to properly complete the
driveway installation within the time extended; provided that, the amount be
forfeited to the general corporate account of the village.
   (C)   Application of other provisions. The provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance and Official Plan of the village, including §
155.53, and all other applicable sections of the village code shall also apply
to the necessity for construction of driveways in residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 543, passed 3-6-1975)
§ 150.36 STREETS, DRIVEWAYS AND IMPROVEMENTS IN OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Surfacing, construction and improvement required: All driveways,
access roads, streets, aisles and alleys, as defined and stated in §§
159.004,
159.140 and other applicable sections of the village code, including the
Building Code and the Zoning Ordinance and Official Plan, installed and/or
located in the Commercial Retail Sales, Light Industry Fabrication and/or Heavy
Industry Manufacturing Zoning Districts, as defined in the Zoning Ordinance and
Official Plan of the village, as amended, and shall be installed, constructed,
improved and surfaced with a waterproof, watertight and moisture-unpenetrable
type material consisting of asphalt, bituminous concrete, concrete or
bituminous-sealed penetrated macadam, or a combination thereof, and of a design
and further construction in accordance with the applicable provisions and
requirements of the State of Illinois Standard Specifications and the Village
of Crestwood Standard Construction Detail Sheet.
   (B)   Time of installation; extensions.
      (1)   All driveways, access roads, streets, aisles and alleys required
pursuant to division (A) above shall be constructed and completed prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy and prior to the occupancy of any
commercial, light industrial and/or heavy industrial building.
      (2)   Upon written request by the property owner to the Building
Commissioner, accompanied by a cash escrow of an amount equal to the estimated
construction and installation cost of the driveway, access road, street, aisle
and/or alley, as certified and verified by a written statement by a
professional engineer licensed by the state, which statement shall be provided
by the property owner at the time of the aforesaid written request, the
Building Commissioner may extend the time for installation and construction of
the driveway by reason of adverse weather conditions at the time of the
required installation and/or by reason of construction strikes or work delays
and/or by reason of the lack of current availability of the aforesaid surfacing
materials to a date not more than 180 days from the date of issuance of a
certificate of occupancy. The written request and cash deposit shall:
         (a)   Provide that the amount deposited shall be returned to the
depositor upon proper construction and installation of the aforesaid driveway,
access road, street, aisle and/or alley; and
         (b)   In the event of the failure of the property owner and/or
occupant to properly complete the driveway, access road, street, aisle and/or
alley installation within the time extended, the amount deposited shall be
forfeited to the general corporate account of the village.
   (C)   Application of other provisions. The provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance and Official Plan of the village and all other applicable sections of
the village code shall also apply to the necessity for construction of
driveways, access roads, streets, aisles and/or alleys in the Commercial Retail
Sales District, Light Industry Fabrication District and Heavy Industry
Manufacturing District.
   (D)   Use of paver brick in Commercial and Light Industrial areas.
      (1)   The village’s Building Code in the commercial and light industrial
areas shall be amended to provide that Paver Brick shall be installed on all
properties fronting on state highways in the area between the sidewalk and curb
area, or if no sidewalks exist, in the parkway area, upon new construction or
renovation of any property requiring a building permit.
      (2)   PAVER BRICK shall be defined as pressed concrete or brick paving
units of 4.52 inches in width and 6.77 inches in length, of a red cast or hue,
of a thickness of 2.75 inches or more.
      (3)   No special use permit, building permit or other variation shall be
granted to a property owner, tenant or other person for any property fronting
on such state highway, unless a condition of such variation or special use
permit shall further require the installation of paver brick.
   (E)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy any
commercial, light industrial or heavy industrial building prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy, and each day on which any of the buildings is
occupied prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be a
separate and distinct violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 599, passed 4-15-1976; Ord. 1457, passed 7-20-1995)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.37 PRIVATE STREETS AND DRIVES.
   Private streets and drives in planned developments in the village in all
zoning districts approved after the date hereof shall have curb and gutter
improvements as otherwise required by the Building Code of the village.
(Ord. 1755, passed 10-17-2002)
§ 150.38 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To require and set minimum standards for outdoor lighting to:
         (a)   Provide for and control lighting in outdoor public places where
public health, safety and welfare are issues.
         (b)   Protect drivers and pedestrians from the disabling glare of non-
vehicular light sources.
         (c)   Protect neighbors and the night sky from nuisance glare and
light trespass from poorly shielded, aimed, placed, applied or maintained light
sources.
         (d)   Promote energy efficient lighting design and operation.
         (e)   Protect and retain the intended character of the Crestwood.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   For uses that are proposed to operate during hours of darkness
where there is public assembly and/or traverse, including but not limited to
the following: commercial, industrial, public recreational, institutional,
multi-family residential developments, and single family developments with lot
sizes of 20,000 square feet or less, where on-street parking is permitted.
      (2)   Village of Crestwood may require that lighting be incorporated for
other uses or locations or may restrict or deny lighting in any of the above
uses, as deemed necessary.
      (3)   The glare-control requirements herein contained apply to lighting
in all above-mentioned uses as well as, but not limited to, sign,
architectural, landscape, recreational and residential lighting.
      (4)   Temporary decorative/seasonal lighting is exempt from all but the
glare control requirements, unless a safety issue is brought forward.
   (C)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   FOOTCANDLE. A unit of incident light quantity measurable with an
illuminance meter, a.k.a. footcandle meter or light meter.
      (2)   FULL CUTOFF. A term that describes a lighting fixture from which no
light is emitted at or above a horizontal plane through the bottom of light-
emitting aperture portion of the fixture and no more than 10% of the lamp's
intensity is emitted at any angle within ten degrees below that horizontal
plane, at all lateral angles around the fixture.
      (3)   GLARE. The sensation produced by excessive direct or reflected
light that causes annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual performance of the
eye. Sensitivity to glare increases with the viewer's age.
      (4)   ILLUMINANCE. The quantity of incident light measured with a light
meter in footcandles.
      (5)   LIGHT TRESPASS. Light, measured in footcandles, projected beyond
the boundaries of the property on which the installation is sited.
      (6)   LUMEN. In the context of this chapter, the published light-output
rating of a lamp.
   (D)   Lighting criteria.
      (1)   Illumination levels.
         (a)   Examples of intensities for typical outdoor applications are
presented below but are not intended to be all-inclusive.
 Use/Task Maintained Footcandles Uniformity Ratio
    Use/Task                                                                       Maintained  Uniformity
                                                                                   Footcandles Ratio
(a) Streets, local commercial                                                      0.9 Avg.    6:1 Avg:
                                                                                               Min.
   Streets, residential, when required by the township                            0.4 Avg.    6:1 Avg:
                                                                                               Min.
(b) Parking, multi-family residential                                                          
   • Low vehicular/pedestrian activity                                          0.2 Min.    4:1 Avg:
                                                                                               Min.*
   • Medium vehicular/pedestrian activity                                       0.6 Min.    4:1 Avg:
                                                                                               Min.*
(c) Parking, industrial/commercial/institutional /recreational                                 
   • High activity, e.g., regional shopping centers/fast food facilities, major 0.9 Min.    4:1 Avg:
    athletic/civic/cultural events                                                             Min.*
   • Medium activity, e.g., community shopping centers, office parks, hospitals,0.6 Min.    4:1 Avg:
    commuter lots, cultural/civic/recreational events                                          Min.*
   • Low activity, e.g., neighborhood shopping, industrial employee parking,    0.2 Min.    4:1 Avg:
    schools, church parking                                                                    Min.*
(d) Sidewalks                                                                                  
   • Commercial                                                                 1.0 Avg.    5:1 Avg:
                                                                                               Min.
   • Residential                                                                0.5 Avg.    5:1 Avg:
                                                                                               Min.
(e) Building entrances, commercial, industrial, institutional per L&I              5.0 Avg.    --
(f) Service station pump islands                                                   10.0 Avg.   4:1 Avg:
                                                                                               Min.
(g) Car dealerships front row/other sales areas                                    20/10 Max.  5:1 Max:
                                                                                               Min.
 
      Notes:
         1.   Illumination levels are maintained horizontal footcandles on the
task, e.g., pavement or area surface.
         2.   Uniformity ratios dictate that average illuminance values shall
not exceed minimum values by more than the product of the minimum value and the
specified ratio, e.g., for high activity commercial parking, the average
illuminance shall not exceed 3.6 footcandles (0.9 x 4).
         * In no case shall the maximum to minimum uniformity ratio for parking
be in excess of 20:1.
         3.   This tabulation is not intended to be inclusive of all permitted
uses/tasks within the village, nor does the fact that a use/task is listed mean
that the use/task is permitted nor that lighting for that use/task is
permitted.
         4.   The village, at its discretion, may permit the average to be
increased to 20 footcandles, when the intensities at existing adjacent
commercial uses so justifies.
      (2)   Lighting fixture design.
         (a)   Fixtures shall be of a type and design appropriate to the
lighting application and aesthetically acceptable to the village.
         (b)   For the lighting of predominantly horizontal surfaces such as,
but not limited to, roadways, areas of vehicular and pedestrian passage,
merchandising and storage areas, automotive fuel dispensing facilities,
automotive sales areas, loading docks, cul-de-sacs, active and passive
recreational areas, building entrances, sidewalks, paths, site entrances and
parking areas, fixtures shall be aimed straight down and shall meet zero at lot
line.
         (c)   For the lighting of predominantly non-horizontal surfaces such
as, but not limited to, facades, landscaping, signs, fountains, displays, flags
and statuary, where the use of fixtures meeting zero at lot line full-cutoff
criteria is not practical or possible, fixtures shall be equipped with aiming
and/or light-redirecting devices such as shields, visors, baffles, skirts or
hoods when necessary to direct or redirect offending light distribution.
         (d)   The use of floodlighting, spotlighting, non-cutoff wall-mounted
fixtures, internally illuminated decorative globes and spheres, lanterns and
other fixtures meeting zero at lot line full-cutoff criteria shall be permitted
only with the approval of the village, based upon acceptable justification and
achievement of suitable glare control.
      (3)   Control of nuisance and disabling glare.
         (a)   All outdoor lighting, whether or not required or permitted by
this chapter, on private, residential, commercial, industrial, municipal,
recreational or institutional property; shall be aimed, located, designed,
fitted and maintained so as not to present a hazard to drivers or pedestrians
by impairing their ability to safely traverse and so as not to create a
nuisance by projecting or reflecting objectionable light onto a neighboring use
or property.
         (b)   The use of floodlights, spotlights and omni-directional
fixtures, except for residential applications, shall require approval by the
township. All such fixtures, regardless of whether for residential or non-
residential applications, shall be so installed and aimed that they do not
project their output into the windows of neighboring residences, adjacent uses,
skyward or onto a public roadway or pedestrian way.
         (c)   Lighting for commercial, industrial, public recreational and
institutional uses, including but not limited to lighting for parking areas,
roadways, pathways, facades, signs and landscaping, shall be extinguished by
automatic means within one-half hour after the close of business. Where after-
hours lighting is deemed reasonably necessary for safety and/or security, the
intensity of such lighting shall not exceed 33% of the intensities permitted by
this chapter during normal business hours.
         (d)   Only the United States and state flags, and no others, shall be
permitted to be illuminated from dusk till dawn and such flags shall be
illuminated by a single source with a beam spread and aiming angle no greater
than necessary to illuminate the flags. Flag lighting sources shall not exceed
10,000 lumens per flagpole.
         (e)   Vegetation screens shall not be employed to serve as the primary
means for controlling glare. Rather, glare control shall be achieved primarily
through the use of such means as cutoff fixtures, shields and baffles, and
appropriate application of fixture mounting height, wattage, aiming angle and
placement.
         (f)   In no case shall the illumination cast by a source or sources
onto an adjacent residential property exceed one-tenth vertical footcandle
measured line-of-sight, from any point on the adjacent residential property.
         (g)   Externally illuminated signs and billboards shall be lighted by
fixtures mounted at the top of the sign or billboard and aimed downward. Such
lightings when off-premises, shall be automatically extinguished between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and dawn.
         (h)   Directional fixtures, e.g., floodlights or spotlights, for such
applications as facade, fountain, feature, sign, billboard, recreational and
landscape illumination, when specifically approved by the township for use,
shall be aimed so as not to project their output beyond the objects intended to
be illuminated.
         (i)   Canopy lighting, for such applications as gas/service stations,
bank and fast-food drive-throughs, shall be accomplished using flat-lens full-
cutoff fixtures aimed straight down and shielded in such a manner that the
lowest opaque edge of the fixture shall be below the light source.
      (4)   Installation.
         (a)   Electrical feeds for fixtures mounted on poles shall be run
underground, not overhead.
         (b)   Poles supporting lighting fixtures for the illumination of
parking areas and located directly behind parking spaces, shall be placed a
minimum of five feet outside paved area, curbing or tire stops, or on concrete
pedestals at least 30 inches high above the pavement, or suitably protected by
other approved means.
         (c)   Except as specifically approved by the township, e.g, for
recreational lighting, fixtures meeting IESNA full-cutoff criteria shall not be
mounted in excess of 20 feet above the finished grade of the area being
illuminated.
         (d)   Except as specifically approved by the township, e.g., for
recreational lighting, fixtures not meeting IESNA "full-cutoff” criteria, when
their use is specifically approved by the township, shall not be mounted in
excess of 16 feet above grade.
   (E)   Street and parking lot lighting for residential applications.
      (1)   For residential developments where lot sizes are or average 20,000
square feet or less, on-street parking is permitted and cartways are 20 feet
wide or less, street lighting, when required or allowed by the township, shall
be lighted in accordance with the illuminance requirements contained in
division (D)(1)(a) above and provided as follows:
         (a)   At the intersection of public roads with entrance roads to the
development.
         (b)   At the intersection of roads within the development.
         (c)   At cul-de-sac bulb radii.
         (d)   At terminal ends of center median islands and cul-de-sac islands
having concrete structure curbing, trees, signs or other fixed objects.
         (e)   At defined pedestrian crossings located within the development.
         (f)   Along the length of any street where lot sizes permit the
parking of less than three vehicles on the lot and thereby necessitate on-
street parking.
         (g)   In off-street parking areas where five or more contiguous
parking spaces are proposed for common use.
      (2)   In multi-family developments, common parking areas shall be
illuminated in accordance with the illuminance requirements contained in
division (D)(1)(a) above.
   (F)   Recreational lighting.
      (1)   When facilities for such outdoor recreational activities as
baseball, basketball, soccer, tennis, football and miniature golf are
specifically permitted by the village for operation during hours of darkness,
the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Lighting shall be accomplished through the use of fixtures
conforming to zero at lot line full-cutoff criteria. The Village of Crestwood
may consider the use of fixtures that are not full-cutoff compliant only when
it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the village that acceptable
control of glare and light trespass will be achieved, taking into consideration
the proximity of the facility to adjacent uses that could be adversely
impacted. Such a proposal shall be accompanied by a visual impact plan as
described in division (G)(2) below.
         (b)   Sporting events shall be timed so that all lighting in the
sports facility, other than lighting for safe exit of patrons, shall be
extinguished by 10:00 p.m. on weekdays (Sunday-Thursday) and 11:00 on weekends
(Friday & Saturday), regardless of such occurrences as extra innings or
overtimes. The Crestwood Stadium or Ozinga Field are not included in this
restriction.
         (c)   Golf driving ranges and trap shooting facilities and other
sports requiring that the light be projected out at a horizontal or near
horizontal angle shall not be lighted.
         (d)   Maximum mounting heights for outdoor recreational lighting shall
be in accordance with the following:
            1.   Basketball: 20 feet.
            2.   Football: 70 feet.
            3.   Soccer: 70 feet.
            4.   Little league baseball:
               a.   200 foot radius: 60 feet.
               b.   300 foot radius: 70 feet.
            5.   Miniature golf: 20 feet.
            6.   Tennis: 20 feet.
            7.   Track: 20 feet.
   (G)   Plan submission.
      (1)   For subdivision and land-development applications where site
lighting is required or proposed, lighting plans shall be submitted to the
township for review and approval with any preliminary or final subdivision/
land-development plan application and with any conditional use application,
where requested, and shall include:
         (a)   A plan or plans of the site, complete with all structures,
parking spaces, building entrances, traffic areas (both vehicular and
pedestrian), vegetation that might interfere with lighting, and adjacent uses
that might be adversely impacted by the lighting, and a layout of all proposed
fixtures by location, mounting height and type. The submittal shall include in
addition to proposed area lighting, exterior architectural lighting, building-
entrance lighting, landscape lighting, sign lighting, etc.
         (b)   Ten feet by ten feet illuminance-grid (point-by-point) plot of
maintained footcandles, plotted out to 0.0 footcandles, which demonstrates
compliance with the light trespass, intensity and uniformity requirements as
set forth in this chapter or as otherwise required by the village. The lamp
lumen rating and type, maintenance (light-loss) factors and IES file names used
in calculating the illuminance levels shall be documented on the plan.
         (c)   Description of the proposed equipment, including fixture catalog
cuts, photometric, glare reduction devices, lamps, on/off control devices,
mounting heights, pole foundation details and mounting methods.
         (d)   Landscaping plans shall contain lighting fixture locations and
shall demonstrate that the site lighting and landscaping have been coordinated
to minimize conflict between vegetation and intended light distribution, both
initially and at vegetation maturity.
      (2)   When requested by the village, applicant shall also submit a
visual-impact plan that demonstrates appropriate steps have been taken to
mitigate on-site and off-site glare and light trespass and to retain the
Village of Crestwood's intended character.
   (H)   Plan notes. The following notes shall appear on the lighting plans:
      (1)   Post-approval alterations to lighting plans or intended
substitutions for approved lighting equipment shall be submitted to the village
for review and approval.
      (2)   The village reserves the right to conduct a post-installation
nighttime inspection to verify compliance with the requirements of this chapter
and as otherwise agreed upon by the township, and if appropriate, to require
remedial action at no expense to the Village of Crestwood.
(Ord. 2679, passed 4-20-2023)
HANDICAPPED REGULATIONS IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS
§ 150.65 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In order to make buildings accessible to and functional for the physically
handicapped, the requirements of this chapter, as well as the other applicable
sections and chapters of the Village Building Code, shall apply to buildings
hereafter erected for or changed to any of the following uses or occupancy:
amusement facilities or structures providing shelter, armories, auditoriums,
churches, village administrative buildings, clubhouses, courthouses, dance
halls, department stores, drill halls or gymnasiums which normally admit
spectators, financial institutions, funeral home public areas, libraries, lodge
halls, manufacturing buildings, markets, office buildings, oil company service
stations, public convenience stations or toilets, recreation buildings,
restaurants, retail and service stores, schools, seminaries, service clubs,
skating rinks, sports arenas, transportation passenger terminals, theaters, art
centers and museums.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1) (Ord. 739, passed 6-7-1979)
§ 150.66 ENTRANCES, DOORS AND DOORWAYS.
   (A)   Entrances.
      (1)   (a)   At least one primary entrance to each building shall be
usable by individuals in wheelchairs.
         (b)   These primary entrance doors, if in series, shall have a space
between them of not less than 84 inches measured from their closed positions
and shall open in the same direction so that swings do not conflict.
      (2)   At least one entrance usable by individuals in wheelchairs shall be
on a level that would make the elevators accessible.
   (B)   Doors and doorways.
      (1)   Doors intended for use by the public shall have a clear opening of
no less than 32 inches when open and shall be operable by the use of one hand.
      (2)   The floor on the inside and outside of each doorway shall be at a
grade not greater than 2% for a distance of five feet and shall extend one foot
beyond each side of the door.
      (3)   Thresholds shall be flush with the floor.
      (4)   Low-hanging door closers that remain within the opening of a
doorway when the door is open or that protrude hazardously into regular
corridors or trafficways when the door is closed shall not be used.
      (5)   Two-leaf doors are considered to be two separate doors; each leaf
shall be at least 36 inches wide.
   (C)   Identification.
      (1)   Raised letters or numbers shall be used to identify doors leading
to public facilities required by this chapter.
      (2)   Doors that are not intended for normal use and that might prove
dangerous if a blind person were to exit or enter by them shall be made quickly
identifiable to the touch by knurling the door handle or knob.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-2)
§ 150.67 STAIRWAYS.
   (A)   Steps.
      (1)   Steps in stairs that might require use by those with disabilities
or by the aged shall not have abrupt (square) nosing.
      (2)   Steps, should, wherever possible and in conformation with existing
step formulas, have risers that do not exceed seven inches.
      (3)   Where open risers are used, they shall have a partial riser of not
less than two inches in height where the top of the tread and the bottom of the
riser join to prevent canes, crutch tips and feet from slipping through. Open
riser stairways not located between walls shall have a side skirt board of not
less than two inches in height.
   (B)   Handrails.
      (1)   Stairs shall have handrails 32 inches high as measured from the
tread at the face of the riser.
      (2)   Stairs shall have at least one handrail which shall extend at least
18 inches beyond the top step and beyond the bottom step where there is a
continuing wall.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.68 FLOORS AND RAMPS.
   (A)   Floors.
      (1)   Floors shall have a surface that is tested and approved to be slip-
resistant by a nationally recognized testing laboratory.
      (2)   Floors on a given story of an individual building shall be of a
common level throughout or be connected by a ramp constructed in accordance
with this section.
   (B)   Ramps.
      (1)   Each ramp shall not have a slope greater than a one foot rise in 12
feet or 8.33% or four degrees, 50 minutes.
      (2)   Each ramp shall have a surface that is tested and approved to be
slip-resistant by a nationally recognized testing laboratory.
      (3)   Each ramp shall have a level platform at the top which is at least
five feet by five feet if a door swings out onto the platform or toward the
ramp. This platform shall extend at least one foot beyond each side of the
doorway; each ramp shall have a level platform at least three feet deep and
five feet wide if the door does not swing onto the platform or toward the
ramps. This platform shall extend at least one foot beyond each side of the
doorway.
      (4)   Each ramp shall have at least six feet of straight clearance at the
bottom.
      (5)   Ramps shall have level platforms at 30-foot intervals for purposes
of rest and safety and shall have level platforms wherever they turn. These
platforms shall be at least three feet deep.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-4)
§ 150.69 SUSPENDED LIGHTS AND FIXTURES.
   All suspended lights, signs, fixtures or similar objects that protrude into
regular corridors or trafficways shall be at a height of at least seven feet
measured from the floor.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-5)
§ 150.70 TOILET ROOMS.
   (A)   An appropriate number of toilet rooms in accordance with the nature
and use of a specific building or facility shall be made accessible to and
usable by the physically handicapped.
   (B)   Toilet rooms shall have at least one toilet stall with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Is three feet wide;
      (2)   Is at least five feet deep;
      (3)   The door (where doors are used) shall be 32 inches wide and swing
out;
      (4)   Handrails shall be placed on each side, 33 inches high and parallel
to the floor, one and one-half inches in outside diameter, with one and one-
half inches of clearance between rail and wall, and fastened securely at ends
and center.
      (5)   There shall be a water closet with the seat 26 inches from the
floor. A wall-mounted closet shall have a narrow understructure that recedes
sharply. A floor-mounted water closet shall not have a front that is wide and
perpendicular to the floor at the front of the seat. The bowl shall be shallow
at the front of the seat and turn backward more than downward.
   (C)   Toilet rooms shall have one or more lavatories with narrow aprons
which, when mounted at standard height, are usable by individuals in
wheelchairs or shall have lavatories mounted higher, when particular designs
demand, so that they are usable by individuals in wheelchairs.
   (D)   One or more mirrors and shelves shall be provided above lavatories at
a height as low as possible and no higher than 40 inches above the floor,
measured from the top of the shelf and the bottom of the mirror.
   (E)   Toilet rooms for men shall have one or more wall-mounted urinals with
the opening of the basin 19 inches from the floor or shall have floor-mounted
urinals that are on a level with the main floor of the toilet room.
   (F)   Toilet rooms shall have one or more towel racks, towel dispensers and
disposal units mounted no higher than 40 inches from the floor.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-6)
§ 150.71 MISCELLANEOUS FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Water fountains.
      (1)   One or more water fountains or other water-dispensing means shall
be accessible to and usable by the physically disabled.
      (2)   Water fountains or coolers shall be hand-operated or hand-and-foot-
operated, with spouts and controls located at the front.
   (B)   Public telephones.
      (1)   One or more public telephones should be made accessible to and
usable by the physically disabled.
      (2)   One or more public telephones should be equipped for those with
hearing disabilities and so identified with instructions for use.
   (C)   Elevators. In a multiple-story building, elevators shall be accessible
to and usable by the physically disabled on the level that they use to enter
the building and at all levels normally used by the general public.
   (D)   Controls. Switches and controls for light, heat, ventilation, windows,
draperies, elevators, fire alarms and all similar controls of frequent or
essential use shall be placed within the reach of individuals in wheelchairs.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-7)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §
150.03(D) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-1C-4)
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §
150.03(E) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-1C-5)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
150.04 shall be punishable as provided by §
10.99 or as authorized by state law.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions and/or regulations of §
150.16 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
150.18(A) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
      (2)   Any person violating §
150.18(B) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a
violation continues to exist.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of §
150.18(C)(2) shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
   (F)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the terms of §
150.23 shall be fined not more than $750 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9)
   (G)   Any person in violation of any provision of §
150.36 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
   (H)   Every owner, manager or agent of a single-family residential building
shall be required to install the smoke detectors prescribed by §
150.50 and any person violating the provisions and/or regulations hereof shall
be fined not more than $750 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
   (I)   Every owner, manager or agent of a multiple-family residential
building shall be required to install the smoke detectors prescribed by §
150.51 and any person violating the provisions and/or regulations of §
150.51 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2)
   (J)   Any person violating any applicable provisions of §§
150.65 through
150.71 shall be fined not more than $750 and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-8)
   (K)   Any person violating any provision of §
150.25 shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 599, passed 4-15-1976; Ord. 656, passed 11-3-1977; Ord. 678, passed 3-16-
1978; Ord. 679, passed 3-16-1978; Ord. 819, passed 11-6-1980; Ord. 876, passed
7-15-1982; Ord. 908, passed 7-7-1983; Ord. 1046, passed 9-3-1987; Ord. 1211,
passed 10-4-1990; Ord. 1674, passed 11-2-2000; Ord. 2010, passed 5-20-2010)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Duties of the Village Services Director
   
151.04   Base flood elevation
   
151.05   Occupation and use of flood fringe area
   
151.06   Occupation and use of designated floodways
   
151.07   Occupation and use of special flood hazard areas where floodways are
not identified
   
151.08   Permitting requirements applicable to all floodplain areas and
protection of buildings
   
151.09   Other development requirements
   
151.10   Variances
   
151.11   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01   PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the
Village of Crestwood by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and
5/11-31-2. The purpose of this chapter is to maintain this village's
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following specific
purposes:
      (1)   To meet the requirements of 615 ILCS 5/18(g) Rivers, Lakes and
Streams Act;
      (2)   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or creating unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      (3)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (4)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (5)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the Village of Crestwood by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program;
      (7)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. 59-79, as amended;
      (8)   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources; and
      (9)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and flood plains in order to moderate flood and storm water
impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and
riparian habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits and enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A non-habitable building which is on the same parcel of
property as the principal building to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal building.
   ACT. An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams
of the State of Illinois, 615 ILCS 5/5 et seq.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, corporation or agency that applies for a
floodplain development permit.
   APPROPRIATE USES. Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed
are as specified in §
151.06(B).
   ASCE. American Society of Civil Engineers.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood is often referred to as the 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The height in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified) of the crest of
the base flood. Application of the BFE at any location is as defined in §
151.04.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building, including any sunken room or sunken
portion of a room, having its floor below ground level (subgrade) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes and
prefabricated buildings. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive or 180 days
in any calendar year.
   CHANNEL. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or man-made drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, rip-rapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross-
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.
straightening).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off-site flood water elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE. Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3708, gives
assurances to the property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed
according to permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously
agreed, upon review and acceptance of as-built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter providing FEMA's
comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the
hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in
the modification of the existing floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
   DAM. All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Dams may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts or impoundment structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
   DELEGATED COMMUNITY. A community delegated state permitting authority for
construction in the Floodway under 17 Ill. Adm. Part 3708 by IDNR/OWR.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY. The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that
portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse, generally
depicted on the FEMA FIRM map, which is needed to store and convey the existing
base flood discharge with no more than a 0.1-foot increase in stage due to the
loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a 10% increase in
velocities.
      (1)   The floodways are designated on the countywide FIRM of Cook County
prepared by FEMA panels 17031C0617K, 0636K, 0619K and 0707K dated November 1,
2019 and panels 17031C0637J 0638J, 0639J, and 0726J dated August 19, 2008. When
two floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more recent effective floodway
limit shall prevail.
      (2)   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the
designated floodway boundary should be scaled off the FIRM map and located on a
site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation is
needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building
or any addition to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than 180 consecutive days or stored in violation of §
70.06 of the village code. If a travel trailer or recreational vehicle is on
site for more than 180 consecutive days or stored in violation of §
70.06(B) of the village code, it must be fully licensed and ready for highway
use;
         (d)   Installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges or similar
projects;
         (e)   Demolition of a building, re-development of a site, clearing of
land as an adjunct of construction;
         (f)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams,
culverts or channel modification;
         (g)   Filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, drilling, mining
or other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
         (h)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and any other activity that might change the direction, height,
or velocity of flood or surface waters; and
         (i)   Any other activity of man that might change the direction,
height, or velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal.
      (2)   Development does not include such activities as re-surfacing of
pavement when there is no increase in elevation, or gardening, plowing, and
similar agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading or
construction of levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATES. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the Crestwood initial floodplain
management regulations.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 C.F.R.
59-79, as amended.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waters, or from the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood also includes the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by
waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly
caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied
by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood
or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable
event which results in a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
floodplain or special flood hazard area within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways and
show BFE.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN (OR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA)). For purpose of this
chapter, these two terms are synonymous. Means any land area susceptible to
being inundated by water from any source. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas
of known flooding as identified by the community. The FLOODPLAINS are those
lands that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the
Village of Crestwood are generally identified as such on panel number(s)
17031C0617K, 0636K, 0619K and 0707K dated November 1, 2019 and 17031C0637J
0638J, 0639J, and 0726J dated August 19, 2008 as prepared by the FEMA.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to buildings that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, buildings
and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus two
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. See DESIGNATED FLOODWAY.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the BFE to provide a factor of
safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed development, unknown
localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those
caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any building that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior to qualify as a registered historic
district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency;
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). Official determination by FEMA that a
specific building, area of land or a parcel of land, where there has not been
any alteration of the topography since the date of the first NFIP map showing
the property within the floodplain, was inadvertently included within the
floodplain and that the building, area of land or a parcel of land is removed
from the floodplain.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). Letter that revises BFEs, floodplains or
floodways as shown on an effective FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the building in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A building, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. New construction means buildings for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such buildings.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the Crestwood initial floodplain management regulations.
   NAVD 88. North American Vertical Datum of 1988. NAVD 88 supersedes the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
   PUBLIC BODY OF WATER. All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the State of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto, as identified in 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part
3704.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, to include expandable room sections regardless of
height;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGIONAL PERMITS. Regional permits are offered for pre-approved projects
which are considered minor projects that are permissible per IDNR/OWR Part 3708
rules for Northeastern Illinois Designated Floodways. A complete listing of the
terms and conditions for specific project types can be obtained from the IDNR/
OWR website.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered in the State of
Illinois, under the Illinois Land Surveyors Act (See 225 ILCS 330/1, et seq.).
   REGISTERED OR LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (P.E.). An engineer registered
in the State of Illinois, under The Illinois Professional Engineering Practice
Act (See 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.).
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a building on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the building before the damaged occurred.
   RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY. A retention facility stores storm water runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of storm
water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or
storm.
   RIVERINE FLOODPLAIN. Any floodplain or SFHA subject to flooding from a
river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, on-stream lake system or any other
identified channel. This term does not include areas subject to flooding from
lakes, ponding areas, areas of sheet flow or other areas not subject to
overbank flooding.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). See FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a building on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial
improvement, actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATEWIDE PERMITS. Statewide permits are offered for pre-approved projects
that are considered minor projects which are permissible per the IDNR/OWR Part
3700 rules. A complete listing of the statewide permits and permit requirements
can be obtained from the IDNR/OWR website.
   STRUCTURE. The results of a man-made change to the land constructed on or
below the ground, including a building, as defined in this section, any
addition to a building; installing utilities, construction of roads or similar
projects; construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts; drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating; and the
storage of materials.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a building whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage during a ten-year period equals or exceeds 50%
of the market value of the building before the damage occurred regardless of
actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be included in
this determination. The term includes repetitive loss buildings. (See
REPETITIVE LOSS).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a building taking place during a ten-year period subsequent to
the adoption of this chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building before the start of
construction of the improvement or repair is started, or increases the floor
area by more than 20%.
      (1)   Substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. This term includes buildings which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places,
provided that the alteration will not preclude the building's continued
designation as a historic structure.
   TRANSITION SECTION. Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from
a narrow cross-section to a wide cross-section or vice versa.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.03  DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Determining the floodplain designation.
      (1)   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
floodplain using criteria listed in §
151.03, base flood elevation.
      (2)   If the site is in a floodplain, determine whether they the site is
in a floodway, flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has
not been conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is within a flood fringe, the Village Services
Director shall require that the minimum requirements of §
151.04 be met.
         (b)   If the site is within a floodway, the Village Services Director
shall require that the minimum requirements of §
151.05 be met.
         (c)   If the site is located within a floodplain for which no detailed
study has been completed and approved, the Village Services Director shall
require that the minimum requirements of §
151.06 be met.
   (B)   Professional engineer review.
      (1)   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a P.E. under the employ or
contract of the Village of Crestwood for review to ensure that the development
meets §§
151.05 or
151.06.
      (2)   In the case of an appropriate use, the P.E. shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of §
151.05.
   (C)   Dam safety requirements. Dams are classified as to their size and
their hazard/damage potential in the event of failure. Permits for dams may be
required from IDNR/OWR. Contact IDNR/OWR to determine if a permit is required.
If a permit is required, a permit application must be made to IDNR/OWR prior to
the construction or major modification of jurisdictional dams.
   (D)   Other permit requirements. Ensure any and all required federal, state
and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit, including, but not limited to, permits pertaining to the
Clean Water Act, Public Water Supply, Endangered Species Act, Illinois
Endangered and Species Protection Act.
   (E)   Plan review and permit issuance.
      (1)   Ensure that all development activities, including new construction
and substantial improvements, within the floodplains of the jurisdiction of the
Village of Crestwood meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
      (3)    Ensure that all development activities happen in a timely manner
and any permit time extensions are issued per the requirements of §§
151.05(A),
151.06(A) and
151.07(A).
   (F)   Inspection review.
      (1)   Inspect all development projects before, during and after
construction to assure proper elevation of the building and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Schedule on an annual basis an inspection of the floodplain and
document the results of the inspection.
   (G)   Substantial damage and substantial improvement determinations.
Establish procedures for administering and documenting determinations, as
outlined below, of substantial improvement and substantial damage made pursuant
to §
151.08.
      (1)   Determine the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building before the start of construction of the proposed work. In the case
of repair, the market value of the building shall be the market value before
the damage occurred and before any repairs are made.
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building.
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or substantial damage.
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the village and this
chapter is required.
   (H)   Elevation and floodproofing certificates. Maintain permit files
including:
      (1)   An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or non-residential building subject
to §
151.08; and/or
      (2)   The elevation to which a non-residential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to §
151.08.
   (I)   Records for public inspection. Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request all permit records, including but not limited to base
flood data, floodplain and designated floodway maps, copies of federal or state
permit documents, variance documentation, soil compaction records, Conditional
Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Amendment, as-
built elevation, floodproofing certificates and elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   (J)   Floodway permits. For all development projects in a floodway, ensure
that construction authorization has been granted by IDNR/OWR, or written
documentation is provided stating that a permit is not required from IDNR/OWR,
issued pursuant to 615 ILCS 5/5 et seq. Floodway permit requirements are
specified in §§
151.06 and
151.07.
   (K)   Cooperation with other agencies.
      (1)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter;
      (2)   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map within six months whenever a modification of the floodplain may
change the BFE or result in a change to the floodplain map;
      (3)   Submit reports as required for the NFIP; and
      (4)   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   (L)   Promulgate regulations. Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any ordinance changes.
   (M)   Variances. If a variance is to be granted, the Village Services
Director shall review the requirements of §
151.10 to make sure they are met. In addition, the Village Services Director
shall complete all notifications requirements.
   (N)   Enforcement. In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as
required in the chapter, the Village Services Director may take any and all
actions as outlined in §
151.99.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
 
§ 151.04 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter's protection standard is based on the FIS for Cook County,
Illinois.
   (A)   If a BFE is not available for a particular site, then the protection
standard shall be according to the best existing data available from federal,
state or other sources.
   (B)   When a party disagrees with the best available data, they shall submit
a detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with better data
and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for review and consideration prior to any
development of the site.
   (C)   The BFE for the floodplains of village shall be as delineated on the
base flood profiles in the FIS of Cook County prepared by FEMA dated November
1, 2019 and such amendments to such study and maps as may be prepared from time
to time.
   (D)   The BFE for the floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Cook
County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of
Crestwood or that may be annexed into the Village of Crestwood shall be as
delineated on the base flood profiles in the FIS of Cook County prepared by
FEMA and dated November 1, 2019 and such amendments or revisions to such study
and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   (E)   The BFE for each floodplain delineated as an AH Zone or AO Zone shall
be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide FIRM of Cook panel
number(s) 17031C0617K, 0636K, 0619K and 0707K dated November 1, 2019 and
17031C0637J 0638J, 0639J, and 0726J dated August 19, 2008 and such amendments
or revisions to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   (F)   The BFE for each of the remaining floodplains delineated as an A Zone
on the countywide FIRM of Cook County panel number(s) 17031C0617K, 0636K, 0619K
and 0707K dated November 1, 2019 and 17031C0637J 0638J, 0639J, and 0726J dated
August 19, 2008 shall be according to the best existing data available from
federal, state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering
study must be financed by the applicant to determine BFEs.
      (1)   When no BFE exists, the BFE for a riverine floodplain shall be
determined from an accepted hydraulic model, based on current industry
standards.
      (2)   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
an accepted hydrologic model, based on current industry standards, or by
techniques presented in various publications prepared by the United States
Geological Survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.05 OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS.
   Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood by proper elevation, compliance
with compensatory storage requirements, and other applicable provisions of this
chapter. No use will be permitted that adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements of §
151.08.
   (A)   Development permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body shall commence
any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a development permit
from the Village Services Director.
      (2)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Village Services Director.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a registered P.E. licensed architect or registered land
surveyor; existing grade elevations, using the NAVD 88, and all proposed
changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and
dimensions of all existing and proposed buildings and additions to buildings.
         (b)   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of §
151.08.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the Mayor shall
compare the elevation of the site to the BFE.
         (a)   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the BFE of the current FIRM and which has not been filled after the date
of the site's first floodplain designation on a FIRM, is not in the floodplain
and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Any development located on land shown to be below the BFE that
is hydraulically connected to the floodplain, but not shown on the current
FIRM, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   The Village Services Director shall maintain documentation of
the existing ground elevation at the Development site and certification that
this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first FIRM
identification in the floodplain.
      (4)   The Village Services Director shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity, as
specified in §
151.03(D). The Village Services Director shall not issue a permit unless all
other federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
      (5)   A development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
actual start of construction, as defined in §
151.02, for work authorized by such permit, is commenced within 180 days after
its issuance, or if the work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period
of 180 days after the work commences. All permitted work shall be completed
within 12 months after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall
expire. Time extensions, of not more than 180 days each, may be granted, in
writing, by the Village Services Director. Time extensions shall be granted
only if the original permit is compliant with this chapter and the FIRM and FIS
in effect at the time the extension is granted.
   (B)   Preventing increased damages.
      (1)   No development in the flood fringe shall create a threat to public
health and safety.
      (2)   If fill is being used to elevate the site above the BFE, the
applicant shall submit sufficient data and obtain a LOMR from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
   (C)   Compensatory storage.
      (1)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the BFE shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically
equivalent volume of excavation taken from below the BFE.
      (2)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.25 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
      (3)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
      (4)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10% annual chance
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10% annual chance flood
elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10% annual chance
flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10% annual chance flood
elevation.
      (5)   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
   (D)   Construction of a building under a LOMR based on fill. A person who
has obtained a LOMR based on fill, which removes a site in the floodplain due
to the use of fill to elevate the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit
from the Village of Crestwood to construct the lowest floor of a building below
the BFE in the floodplain. The Village Services Director shall not issue such a
permit unless the applicant has demonstrated that the building will be
reasonably safe from flooding. The Village Services Director shall require a
professional certification from a qualified design professional that indicates
the land or buildings to be removed from the SFHA are reasonably safe from
flooding, according to the criteria established in FEMA Technical Bulletin (TB)
10. Professional certification may come from a registered P.E., professional
geologist, professional soil scientist or other design professional qualified
to make such evaluations.
   (E)   The Village Services Director shall maintain records, including but
not limited to, all correspondence, professional certification, existing and
proposed grading, sump pump sizing, foundation plans, elevation certificates,
compensatory storage calculations, soil testing and compaction data.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.06 OCCUPATION AND USE OF DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS.
   This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site
modification or building modification within a designated floodway. The
designated floodway shall be as delineated on the countywide FIRM of Cook as
defined in §
151.02. Permits will only be issued for appropriate uses of the designated
floodway of which periodic inundation will not pose a danger to the general
health and welfare of the user or require the expenditure of public funds or
the provisions of public resources or disaster relief services or result in
increased flood stages due to the singular or cumulative loss of regulatory
floodway storage or regulatory floodway conveyance or increase in flood
velocities. All floodway modifications shall be the minimum necessary to
accomplish the purpose of the project. The development shall also meet the
requirements of §
151.08. No permit from IDNR/OWR the Village of Crestwood shall be required if
the project meets Regional Permit No.3.
   (A)   Development permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body, shall commence
any development in a floodway without first obtaining a development permit from
IDNR/OWR. Except as noted in §
151.06(G).
      (2)   Applications for a development permit for work in a floodway shall
be made by submitting a completed application on the form furnished by IDNR/
OWR. The application for a development permit for work in a floodway, shall as
a minimum, include the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Legal description of the property;
         (c)   Site location map of the property, drawn to scale on the FIRM,
indicating whether it is proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated
area;
         (d)   Name of stream or body of water affected;
         (e)   Description of proposed activity;
         (f)   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
         (g)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
         (h)   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
         (i)   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
         (j)   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         (k)   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form;
         (l)   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him or her as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein;
         (m)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided, which include,
as a minimum:
            1.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
            2.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the building
or work, elevations (NAVD 88), adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage
and flood control easements, location of any channels and any existing or
future access roads, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel
(when the proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of
water), designated floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and
dimensions of any proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of
cross-sections, north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale;
            3.   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work, as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10% annual chance flood elevation, BFE, and graphic or numerical
scales (horizontal and vertical);
            4.   A seeding or stabilization plan for the disturbed areas; and
            5.   A copy of the FIRM, marked to reflect any proposed change in
the designated floodway location.
      (3)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
      (4)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of §
151.06(B).
      (5)   If the designated floodway delineation or BFE will change due to
the proposed project, the application will not be considered complete until
IDNR/OWR has indicated conditional approval of the designated floodway map
change. No buildings may be built until a LOMR has been approved by FEMA.
      (6)   The application for a building shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a registered P.E.
licensed architect or registered land surveyor; the location and dimensions of
all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.08.
      (7)   A development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
start of construction, for work authorized by such permit, is commenced within
180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the work commences. All permitted work
shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the permit or
the permit shall expire. Time extensions, of not more than 180 days each, may
be granted, in writing, by the Village Services Director. Time extensions shall
be granted only if the original permit is compliant with this chapter and the
FIRM and FIS in effect at the time the extension is granted.
      (8)   The Village Services Director shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits and
approvals that may be required for this type of activity.
         (a)   The Village Services Director shall not issue the development
permit unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
         (b)   A registered P.E., under the employ or contract of the Village
of Crestwood shall review and approve applications reviewed under this section.
   (B)   Preventing increased damages and a list of appropriate uses.
      (1)   The only development in a floodway allowed are appropriate uses
that will not cause a rise in the BFE and will not create a damaging or
potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity, be a threat to
public health and safety and welfare, impair the natural hydrologic and
hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or permanently impair existing
water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by
appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter. Only those
appropriate uses listed in 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3708 will be allowed. The
approved appropriate uses are as follows:
         (a)   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
         (b)   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
         (c)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
         (d)   Underground and overhead utilities;
         (e)   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail
systems, including any related fencing (at least 50% open when viewed from any
one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including
open air pavilions and toilet facilities (four stall maximum) that will not
block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage.
         (f)   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other non-habitable
accessory structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway
storage;
         (g)   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
         (h)   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
            1.   The depth of flooding during the base flood will not exceed
one foot; or
            2.   The applicant of a short-term recreational use facility
parking lot formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events
and accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all
overbank flooding events.
      (2)   Aircraft parking aprons built at or below ground elevation where
the depth of flooding during the base flood will not exceed one foot;
      (3)   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
non-erosive slop toward a watercourse.
      (4)   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
buildings including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
buildings, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal buildings where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet away from the exterior wall of the existing building,
and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the building.
      (5)   The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged building,
provided that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building was
damaged to 50% or more of the market value before the damage occurred, the
building will be protected from flooding to the FPE.
      (6)   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the
enclosed floor area of the building below the BFE, and which will not block
flood flows including but not limited to, fireplaces, bay windows, decks,
patios, and second story additions. If the building is improved to 50% or more
of the market value before the modification occurred (i.e., a substantial
improvement), the building will be protected from flooding to the FPE.
   (C)   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new buildings, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise non-appropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
   (D)   Within the designated floodway, the construction of an appropriate
use, will be considered permissible provided that the proposed project meets
the following engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing
with supporting plans, calculations and data by a registered P.E. and provided
that any building meets the protection requirements of §
151.09:
      (1)   Preservation of flood conveyance, so as not to increase flood
stages upstream. For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on-stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the base flood. In calculating effective designated floodway conveyance, the
following factors shall be taken into consideration:
         (a)   Designated floodway conveyance, "K" = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where "n"
is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the cross-
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter (See Ven Te
Chow, Open Channel Hydraulics, (McGraw-Hill, New York 1959).
         (b)   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a non-vegetative
land cover.
         (c)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations
of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
            1.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot horizontal for every four feet of the flooded stream's length.
            2.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every one foot of the flooded stream's length.
            3.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot vertical transition for every ten feet of stream length
shall be used.
            4.   Transition sections shall be provided between cross-sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
            5.   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
      (2)   Preservation of floodway storage so as not to increase downstream
flooding.
         (a)   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
         (b)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
1.25 times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
         (c)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
         (d)   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed BFE. All
designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10% annual chance flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10% annual chance flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost above the existing 10% annual
chance flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10% annual chance
flood elevation. All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
         (e)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location
of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate
through a determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that
the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
         (f)   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area, as a
result of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to
reduce flooding at an existing structure.
      (3)   Preservation of floodway velocities so as not to increase stream
erosion or flood heights.
         (a)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on-
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events
up to and including the base flood event.
         (b)   In the case of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures built
for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood flows,
velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of riprap or other design measures.
      (4)   Construction of new bridges or culvert crossings and roadway
approaches.
         (a)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the base flood event; or
the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the channel banks
(or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within
the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded
flood easements.
         (b)   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood stages
greater than 0.1 feet, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a permit
for a dam or waiver.
            1.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in §
151.04. Bridges and culverts must be analyzed using any commonly accepted FEMA
approved hydraulic models.
            2.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per §
151.07(B)(2)(e)5.
            3.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per §
151.07(B)(2)(e)6.
            4.   If the crossing is proposed over a public body of water that
is used for recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be
received.
            5.    The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by §
151.06(B).
            6.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per §
151.07(D)(8).
      (5)   Reconstruction or modification of existing bridges, culverts and
approach roads.
         (a)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1-foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the base flood event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
         (b)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to structures in the upstream floodplain, the
applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the existing
bridge or culvert and roadway approach to reduce the existing backwater, taking
into consideration the effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream
properties.
         (c)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is
a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3708 (Floodway Construction in
Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence
before a permit is issued.
      (6)   On-stream structures built for the purpose of backing up water.
         (a)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot when
compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including
the base flood event shall be contained within the channel banks (or within
existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the design
protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded flood
easements.
         (b)   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be
obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
         (c)   All dams and impoundment structures, as defined in §
151.02, shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3702
(Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the proposed activity involves a
modification of the channel or floodway to accommodate an impoundment, it shall
be demonstrated that:
            1.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation or regional storm water detention;
            2.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous
fish species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life
cycle, such as for spawning;
            3.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation basin;
            4.   A non-point source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control; and
            5.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of §
151.07.
      (7)   Excavation in the floodway.
         (a)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and culvert
openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing bridge and
culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other appropriate
uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
         (b)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering
calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
            1.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot horizontal for every four feet of the flooded stream's length;
            2.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every one foot of the flooded stream's length;
            3.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one-foot vertical transition for every ten feet of stream length
shall be used; and
            4.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
      (8)   General criteria for analysis of flood elevations.
         (a)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in §
151.05, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the study data
appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR shall be contacted
for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data to use.
         (b)   If the floodway elevation at the site of the proposed
construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving stream with a
larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to meet:
            1.   The requirements of this section for the BFEs of the
designated floodway conditions; and
            2.   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water
elevations.
         (c)   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a public flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
      (9)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision.
         (a)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the BFE, the applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR
and FEMA all information, calculations and documents necessary to be issued a
conditional designated floodway map revision and receive from IDNR/OWR a
conditional concurrence of the designated floodway change before a permit is
issued.
         (b)   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as-built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging,
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR. All
field surveys shall be conducted under the supervision of a registered P.E. or
registered land surveyor and shall be sealed. All required engineering analyses
shall be conducted under the supervision of a registered P.E., or in the case
of a federal project, by the federal agency and shall be so sealed or stated.
         (c)   In the case of non-government projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
         (d)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
         (e)   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final LOMR is issued by FEMA with
concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
      (10)   Professional engineer's supervision. All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a registered P.E.
      (11)   After receipt of conditional approval of the designated floodway
change and issuance of a permit and a conditional letter of map revision,
construction as necessary to change the floodway designation may proceed but no
buildings, or structures, or other construction that is not an appropriate use
may be placed in that area until the designated floodway map is changed and a
final letter of map revision is received. The designated floodway map will be
revised upon acceptance and concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the as-built
plans.
   (E)   Permits for dams.
      (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a
dam as defined in §
151.02 per 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3702 (Rules for Construction of Dams) shall
obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of dam construction.
      (2)   If the Village Services Director finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR/OWR permit, the Village Services Director shall immediately notify the
IDNR/OWR Bartlett office.
      (3)   If the Village Services Director the finds a dam which is believed
to be in unsafe condition, the Village Services Director shall immediately
notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency.
   (F)   Activities that do not require a registered professional engineer's
review. Regional Permit No.3, which authorizes, for example, underground and
overhead utilities, storm and sanitary sewer outfalls, sidewalks, patios,
athletic fields, playground equipment and streambank protection activities; may
be permitted without a registered P.E.'s review. Such activities shall still
meet the other requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation
requirements.
   (G)   Development activities in delegated communities requiring state
review. As specified in 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3708, the following shall not be
delegated and shall be subject to IDNR/OWR review and permits:
      (1)   Permits issued to organizations that are exempt from the Crestwood
permitting authority.
      (2)   IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined by 17 Ill. Adm. Code 3702) and
all other state, federal or local unit of government projects, including
projects of the municipalities and counties.
      (3)   Construction and other activities in public bodies of water
pursuant to 17 Ill. Adm. Code 3704.
      (4)   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to §
151.06(D)(5).
      (5)   An engineer's determination that a proposed new bridge, affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream, may be built with a smaller
opening pursuant to §
151.06(D)(4).
      (6)   An analysis of alternative transition sections and hydraulically
equivalent storage pursuant to §
151.06(D)(4).
      (7)   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.07 OCCUPATION AND USE OF SPECIAL FLOODPLAIN AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT
IDENTIFIED.
   In floodplains, (including AE, AB, AO and unnumbered A Zones) where no
floodways have been identified and no BFEs have been established by FEMA, and
draining more than a square mile, no development shall be permitted unless the
cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the
flow and passage of the floodwaters nor significantly increase the BFE.
   (A)   Development permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, shall commence
any development in a floodplain without first obtaining a development permit
from the Village Services Director.
      (2)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Village Services Director.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a
registered P.E. licensed architect or registered land surveyor; the location
and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations
of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to
the requirements of §
151.08.
         (b)   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
            1.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose
and intended use;
            2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the FIRM, indicating whether it is proposed to be in an
incorporated or unincorporated area;
            3.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            4.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include
as a minimum:
               a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of
the waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site,
graphic or numerical scale and north arrow;
               b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the NAVD 88, adjacent property lines and
ownership, drainage and flood control easements, distance between proposed
activity and navigation channel (when the proposed construction is in or near a
commercially navigable body of water), floodplain limit, location and
orientation of cross-sections, north arrow, and a graphical or numerical scale;
               c.   Cross-section views of the project perpendicular to the
flow of flood water and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed
conditions including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view,
existing and proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10% annual chance
flood elevation, BFE, and graphical or numerical scales (horizontal and
vertical);
               d.   A seeding or stabilization plan for the disturbed areas;
               e.    Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be
submitted showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of §
151.07(B);
               f.   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or
approvals that may be required for this type of development; and
               g.   Based on the best available existing data according to
federal, state or other sources, the Village Services Director shall compare
the elevation of the site to the BFE.
            5.   Should no BFE information exist for the site, the developer's
engineer shall calculate the BFE according to §
151.04(F).
            6.   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the BFE prior to the current FIRM's floodplain identification, is
not in the floodplain and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this
chapter.
            7.   The Village Services Director shall maintain documentation of
the existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that
this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's current FIRM's
floodplain identification.
            8.   The Village Services Director shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity.
The Village Services Director shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
      (3)   A development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
start of construction, for work authorized by such permit, is commenced within
180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the work commences. All permitted work
shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the permit or
the permit shall expire. Time extensions, not more than 180 days each, may be
granted, in writing, by the Village Services Director. Time extensions shall be
granted only if the original permit is compliant with this chapter and the FIRM
and FIS in effect at the time the extension is granted.
   (B)   Preventing increased damages.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain, where a floodway has not been
determined, shall create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood
heights or velocity or threat to public health, safety and welfare or impair
the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel or
impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter.
      (2)   Within all riverine floodplains where the floodway has not been
determined, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   The developer shall have a licensed P.E. state in writing and
show through supporting plans, calculations, and data that the project meets
the engineering requirements of §§
151.06(D)(1) through
151.06(D)(9) for the entire floodplain as calculated under the provisions of §
151.04(F).
         (b)   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a Floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR and FEMA for acceptance as a designated floodway.
         (c)   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR and FEMA, the
developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of §
151.06 for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be defined according to
the definition in §
151.02.
         (d)   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant
first obtains an IDNR/OWR permit or a determination has been made that an IDNR/
OWR permit is not required.
         (e)   Permits for dams.
            1.   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a dam as defined in §
151.02 per 17 Ill. Adm. Code Part 3702 (Rules for Construction of Dams) shall
obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of dam construction.
            2.   If the Village Services Director finds a dam that does not
have an IDNR/OWR permit, the Village Services Director shall immediately notify
the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office.
            3.   If the Village Services Director finds a dam which is believed
to be in unsafe condition, the Village Services Director shall immediately
notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency.
            4.   The following activities may be permitted without a registered
P.E.'s review or calculation of BFE and designated floodway. Such activities
shall still meet the other requirements of this chapter.
            5.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 2.
            6.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
            7.   Aerial utility crossings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4.
            8.   Minor boat docks meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 5.
            9.   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 6; activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit.
            10.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7.
            11.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8.
            12.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 9.
            13.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10.
            14.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11.
            15.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge
widenings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12.
            16.   Temporary construction activities meeting conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 13.
            17.   Special uses of public waters meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 14.
            18.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
      (3)   The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse
shall be maintained.
      (4)   Compensatory storage.
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the BFE shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically
equivalent volume of excavation taken from below the BFE.
         (b)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.25 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         (c)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         (d)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10% annual chance
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10% annual chance flood
elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10% annual chance
flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10% annual chance flood
elevation. All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.08 PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS AND
PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   In addition to the requirements found in §§
151.05,
151.06 and
151.07 and for development in flood fringes, designated floodways, and
floodplains where no floodways have been identified, the following requirements
shall be met.
   (A)   Public health and other standards.
      (1)   No developments in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a P.E. or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of §
151.09.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (4)   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and onsite waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all manholes
or other above ground openings located below the FPE are watertight. New and
replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal systems shall be
located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them
during flooding.
      (5)   All other activities, defined as development, such as pools,
fences, filling, paving, etc., shall be designed so as not to alter flood flows
or increase potential flood damages.
   (B)   Carrying capacity and notification of adjacent communities.
      (1)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
      (2)   In addition, the Village of Crestwood shall notify adjacent
communities in writing 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the
alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
   (C)   Protecting buildings.
      (1)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements in §
151.05(B) of this chapter, all buildings located within a floodplain, shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPE. This building protection criteria
applies to the following situations:
         (a)   New construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet.
         (b)   Substantial improvements, including any combination of
alteration, repair, rehabilitation, reconstruction, addition, or other
improvements made to an existing building that equal or exceed the market value
by 50%, or that increase the floor area by more than 20%. Alteration shall be
figured cumulatively ten-year period subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter. If substantially improved, the existing building and the addition must
meet the flood protection standards of this section.
         (c)   Any repairs made to a substantially damaged building.
Substantial damage shall be figured cumulatively ten-year period subsequent to
the adoption of this chapter by comparing the cost to repair the building to
its pre-damage condition with the market value of the building immediately
prior to the damage, for each event in which the building sustains damage and
adding the percentages of damage for each event. If substantially damaged, the
entire building must meet the flood protection standards of this section.
         (d)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply
when returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before
it was removed to avoid flood damage).
         (e)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 consecutive days or 180 days in any calendar year.
         (f)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined under §
151.02.
      (2)   The lowest floor (including basement) of new construction of
residential buildings, and substantially improved residential buildings, must
be elevated to the FPE, subject to the more specific additional requirements in
§
151.08(B)(1) through
151.08(B)(3) below. If fill, including grading to redistribute onsite material
to alter existing topography, is used as a means of elevation:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
FPE.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and must extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the FPE.
         (c)   The top of the fill shall be above the FPE. However, the ten-
foot minimum may be waived if a structural engineer certifies an alternative
method to protect the Building from damages due to hydrostatic pressures.
         (d)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, rip-rap, or other structural measure.
         (e)   The fill shall be composed of clean rock or soil and not include
debris or refuse material.
         (f)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (3)   If the building's lowest floor is elevated above ground level with
an enclosed or unenclosed area below the lowest floor:
         (a)   The building shall be elevated on piles, walls, columns,
crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters.
         (b)   All enclosed areas below the FPE shall provide for equalization
of hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. Each wall must have a minimum of one permanent opening that is
below the BFE and no more than one foot above finished grade. The openings
shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the BFE, or the design
must be certified by a registered P.E. as providing the equivalent performance
in accordance with accepted standards of practice. Refer to FEMA TB 1, Openings
in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures, for additional guidance.
         (c)   All electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above the FPE.
         (d)   The building, foundation, and supporting members shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
building resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy, and be designed so as to minimize exposure to current,
waves, ice and floating debris.
         (e)   All building components below the FPE shall be constructed of
materials resistant to flood damage.
         (f)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the FPE
provided they are waterproofed.
         (g)   The area below the FPE shall be used solely for parking or
building access and not later modified or occupied as habitable space.
      (4)   If the floor of any area of a building below the lowest floor is
proposed to be below grade on all sides, typical for crawlspace construction,
the building shall meet the requirements of this chapter and FEMA TB 11
Crawlspace Construction for Buildings Located in special flood hazard areas.
The building, while NFIP compliant, will be considered to have a basement for
NFIP insurance purposes.
         (a)   The building shall be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the building resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   All enclosed areas below the FPE shall provide for equalization
of hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. Each wall must have a minimum of one permanent opening that is
below the BFE and no more than one foot above finished grade. The openings
shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the BFE, or the design
must be certified by a registered P.E. as providing the equivalent performance
in accordance with accepted standards of practice. Refer to FEMA TB 1, Openings
in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures, for additional guidance.
         (c)   Per FEMA TB 11, the crawlspace shall be designed so that:
            1.   The interior grade of the crawlspace floor below the FPE must
not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent grade;
            2.   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the
interior grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed
four feet at any point;
            3.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event; and
            4.   The velocity of floodwater at the site shall not exceed five
feet per second.
         (d)   Portions of the building below the FPE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage.
         (e)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
FPE.
      (5)   The lowest floor (including basement) of new construction of
nonresidential buildings, and substantial improvement of nonresidential
buildings, must either: (a) be elevated to or above the FPE, subject to the
more specific additional requirements of §§
151.08(B)(2) through
151.08(B)(4) above; or (b) be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu of
elevation), provided a registered P.E. or architect submits a FEMA
Floodproofing Certificate, documenting that the registered P.E. or architect
developed and/or reviewed the structural design, specifications, and plans for
construction, and that the engineer or architect certifies that the design and
methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice
for meeting the requirements of ASCE 24-14 and the requirements listed below:
         (a)   Below the FPE, the building and attendant utility and sanitary
facilities are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydraulic loads and the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and
impact from debris and ice.
         (c)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
         (d)   The building, utility, and sanitary facilities' design and
construction will prevent the effect of sewer backup into the building.
         (e)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this chapter.
      (6)   All placement of manufactured homes and or travel trailers, to be
permanently installed on site for more than 180 consecutive days or 180 days in
any calendar year, shall be:
         (a)   Elevated to or above the FPE using a support and anchoring
system, designed by a P.E. pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.110.
         (b)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.220.
         (c)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles, on site for more than
180 consecutive days or 180 days in any calendar year, shall meet the elevation
requirement and anchoring requirements of § 903.4 unless the following
conditions are met:
            1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a
light duty truck;
            2.   The vehicle must not be attached to any permanent additions or
external structures, such as decks and porches;
            3.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
            4.   The vehicles having a total area not exceeding 400 square feet
measured when all horizontal projections are fully expanded;
            5.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and have inflated
tires;
            6.   Any air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as
to be safe for movement out of the floodplain;
            7.   The vehicle must be attached to a site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices. Utility connections include,
but are not limited to, propane tanks, electrical and sewage; and
            8.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational
vehicle or park model, and must either be entirely be supported by jacks, or
have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching the ground and
be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to be easily
removed by use of the jacks/hitch jack.
      (7)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be constructed with the lowest
floor below the FPE provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be not be constructed and used for habitation,
must not include areas intended or used for living, sleeping, eating, or
cooking, and must not include bathrooms, toilet rooms or shower rooms;
         (b)   All areas below the BFE shall be constructed with flood-
resistant materials;
         (c)   The building must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
         (d)   The building shall be located outside of the designated floodway
unless the building can be constructed and placed on a building site so as not
to block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage (§
151.06(A)(6)), can also meet the appropriate use criteria of §
151.06 and all other applicable requirements of this chapter;
         (e)   All electrical lines, switches, receptacles, and fixtures must
be located above the FPE except to the minimum extent required by applicable
building or life safety codes. Any switches, receptacles, and/or fixtures
required by applicable building or life safety codes to extend below the FPE
shall be rated, or located in enclosures rated, for prolonged submersion;
         (f)   No plumbing, heating, or air conditioning shall be permitted in
garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures allowed to be wet
floodproofed under this division in lieu of elevation;
         (g)   The building must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall below the BFE and not more than one foot above the finished, outside grade
with one square inch of opening for every one square foot of floor area;
         (h)   The building must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24 feet by
24 feet);
         (i)   The building shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
         (j)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the FPE; and
         (k)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented, and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications of building with the lowest flood
below the BFE.
      (7)   In floodplain Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be provided
around buildings on sloped ground to guide water away from the buildings.
      (8)   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also
meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in §
151.06. Nonconforming buildings located in a designated floodway may remain in
use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered in accordance
with §
151.06(B). A nonconforming building damaged by flood, fire, wind or other
natural or man-made disaster may be restored unless the damage exceeds 50% of
its market value before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to this
chapter.
      (9)   New construction or substantial improvement of critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 0.2% chance flood elevation or three feet above the BFE
whichever is greater. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the BFE shall be
provided to all critical facilities. As necessary, adequate parking, at or
above the BFE, shall be provided for staffing of the critical facilities during
a flood.
      (10)   Critical facilities may include: emergency services facilities
(such as fire and police stations), schools, sewage treatment plants, water
treatment plants, sanitary pumping stations, hospitals, retirement homes,
senior care facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites
(telephone switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous
material storage facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic
substances).
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.09 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees of the Village of Crestwood shall take into account
flood hazards, to the extent that they are known in all official actions
related to land management, use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
planned unit developments within the floodplain shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with §§
151.05,
151.06,
151.07 and
151.08 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks and planned unit developments
shall include a signed statement by a registered P.E. that the plat or plans
account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the
Plat Act (See 765 ILCS 205/2).
   (B)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include BFE data and floodway
delineations. Where this information is not available from an existing adopted
study, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for calculating the BFE
per §
151.03 and the floodway delineation per the definition in §
151.02.
   (C)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees of the Village of Crestwood shall not approve
any planned unit development or plat of subdivision located outside the
corporate limits unless such agreement or plat is in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems, must be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.10 VARIANCES.
   No variances shall be granted within a designated floodway, as defined in §
151.02, if any increase in flood levels would result.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Plan
Commission for a variance. The Plan Commission shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Board of
Trustees. The village may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as
it deems necessary to further the flood protection intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates, and
the Board of Trustees finds, that all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The variance granted is the minimum necessary, considering the
flood hazard, to afford relief;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety,
destruction of beneficial stream uses and functions including, aquatic habitat,
creation of a nuisance, causation of fraud on or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities or other public
facilities;
      (6)   The provisions of §§
151.05(B) and
151.07(B) of this chapter shall still be met;
      (7)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (8)   All other required state and federal permits or waivers have been
obtained.
   (C)   The Village Services Director shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of §
151.08 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as $25 per $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant will acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk
and liability.
   (D)   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or historic structure, may be granted to allow repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures using criteria more permissive than the requirements of §
151.09, subject to the conditions that:
      (l)   The variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the building; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the building's
continued designation as a historic structure.
   (E)   The findings of fact and conclusions of law made by the Board of
Trustees according to §
151.10(B), the notifications required by §
151.10(C), and a record of hearings and evidence considered as justification
for the issuance of all variances from this chapter shall be maintained by the
Village of Crestwood in perpetuity.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur, or flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside of the
floodplain, will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create
liability on the part of the Village of Crestwood or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Village Attorney
may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
The Village Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation. In
order to document receipt, this notice shall be sent by personal delivery,
certified mail or reputable overnight courier service.
   (B)   Failure to correct violations. If such owner fails, after ten days
from the date the written notice is issued, to correct the violation.
      (1)   The Village of Crestwood may make application to the Circuit Court
for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other
order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The Village of Crestwood shall record a notice of violation on the
title to the property.
   (C)   Loss of insurance. The Village Services Director shall inform the
owner that any such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood
damages and, therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy
to be suspended.
      (1)   The Village Services Director is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall
be in writing, shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (2)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Board of Trustees written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state: (a) the grounds for
compliance or reasons for suspension or revocation; and (2) the time and place
of the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Board of Trustees shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (D)   Additional remedies. Nothing herein shall prevent the Village of
Crestwood from taking such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any
violations. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible.
(Ord. 2521, passed 9-19-2019)
CHAPTER 152: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
   
152.01   Permit required; exemptions
   
152.02   Application for permit; plans and specifications
   
152.03   Permit fees and terms
   
152.04   Bond
   
152.05   Issuance of permit
   
152.06   Temporary permit
   
152.07   Prohibited signs
   
152.08   Signs on or overhanging public ways and property
   
152.09   Signs on buildings
   
152.10   Distance above the ground
   
152.11   Inspections
   
152.12   Revocation of permit
   
152.13   Political election signs
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 152.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, billboard or signboard in the
village without having first obtained a permit therefor and, thereafter, having
renewed the permit as provided in this chapter. However, no permit shall be
required for the erection or maintenance of any sign by the village or by any
of its officials on any property owned or leased by the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 1209, passed 9-20-1990)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The permits required by the provisions of this chapter shall be obtained
from the Building Commissioner on written application therefor by the person
erecting, constructing or maintaining the billboard, signboard or sign, and the
application shall be accompanied by the plans and specifications showing the
size and character of the proposed sign, billboard or signboard and the
location of the same. If the plan and specifications shall be in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall,
thereupon, issue a permit for the erection of the sign, billboard or signboard
upon the payment by the applicant of a fee for each billboard or signboard;
provided, the Building Commissioner shall not be obliged to issue a permit for
the erection, construction or maintenance of any billboard or signboard in any
location where the billboard or signboard would or might constitute a dangerous
obstruction to the view or a menace to the physical welfare of persons
traveling on any highway or on any sidewalk, path or way abutting thereon.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
§ 152.03 PERMIT FEES AND TERM.
   (A)   At the time of issuance of a permit for the installation upon the
commercial or light or heavy industrial property owned by the applicant, the
permit fee shall be $0.25 per square foot of display area, including all
exposed sides, but no less than $5, and no annual renewal permit fee shall be
required.
   (B)   (1)   At the time of issuance of a permit for the installation upon
the commercial or light or heavy industrial property not owned by the
applicant, the permit fee shall be $0.25 per square foot of display area,
including all exposed sides, but no less than $5, and the annual renewal permit
fee shall be identical in amount and the same as the initial permit fee at the
time of issuance.
      (2)   The period for which permits required by the provisions of this
chapter shall run shall be the same as the general license year.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
§ 152.04 BOND.
   (A)   Each person maintaining a sign, billboard or signboard over a street,
alley, sidewalk or other public way in the village shall file with the Village
Clerk a bond or indemnity policy in the sum of $10,000 conditioned to indemnify
the village against any loss or damage or liability that may result from the
construction or maintenance of the sign, billboard or signboard.
   (B)   The bond or policy shall have sureties as may be required by the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
§ 152.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Permits shall be issued by the Building Commissioner upon the payment of the
fee herein provided and after approval as provided in §
152.08(A) and shall designate the location of the proposed signs.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
§ 152.06 TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   Temporary permits may be issued for the maintenance of a temporary sign for
less than six months upon the payment of a fee of $2 for each week or fraction
thereof that the sign may be maintained.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-6) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
§ 152.07 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, maintain, display or
continue in operation any sign which is portable, easily movable and not
permanently attached to nor made a part of a building or permanent structure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, erect, maintain or
continue in operation in the village:
      (1)   Any attraction device or sign which contains a stationary or
revolving light which flashes or projects illumination, single color or multi-
colored, in any manner which is intended to attract or divert attention, except
as attached to or made a part of a permanent building or permanent structure in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the applicable sections
hereof;
      (2)   Any attraction device or sign which flashes, blinks, is animated or
fluctuates in light intensity, except as attached to or made a part of a
permanent building or permanent structure in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and the applicable sections hereof;
      (3)   Any sign or advertising structure along, upon or within any public
right-of-way, street, alley or sidewalk, except as placed thereupon by the
village or state; and
      (4)   Any sign or advertising structure which, by reason of its position,
shape, color or design, interferes with, obstructs the view of, confuses or
misleads traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-7) (Ord. 779, passed 11-1-1979) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 SIGNS ON OR OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   General requirements. No person shall erect, maintain or use upon or
over any parks, streets, parkways or alleys owned, controlled or maintained by
the village any sign, billboard or signboard without:
      (1)   A permit therefor to be approved by the Board of Trustees; and
      (2)   Without complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Height above walk. The lowest part of any sign or of any nonrigid
awning or support thereof which extends over any sidewalk shall be at least ten
feet above the level of the public way over which it extends and no sign shall
be maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of it or of its
support is less than 14 feet above the level of the public way.
   (C)   Construction requirements. All signs, billboards or signboards
extending over any sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be
securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger of the same
being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from any other foreseeable cause.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-8) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 SIGNS ON BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach any billboard or signboard
whatsoever to the front, side or rear walls of any building unless the same
shall be placed flat against the surface of the building and safely and
securely anchored or fastened thereto. All billboards or signboards erected,
constructed or maintained under or by virtue of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to the prohibition hereof. Roof signs are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-9) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 DISTANCE ABOVE THE GROUND.
   (A)   Minimum distance. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or
construct any detached billboard or signboard less than three feet above the
average level of the ground below the billboard or signboard.
   (B)   Maximum distance. The highest part of any sign extending above, over
or within 50 feet of any sidewalk or public way shall not exceed 32 feet above
the level of the sidewalk or public way over which it extends or adjoins.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-10) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized to make an annual inspection
of all billboards and signboards to determine whether any billboards and
signboards are erected, constructed or maintained in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-12) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
§ 152.12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any sign permit may be revoked by the Village Board for violation of any
ordinance relating to the construction, maintenance or operation of the sign,
billboard or signboard or for the violation of any condition imposed as
provided in this chapter. The revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed
for violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-13) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
§ 152.13 POLITICAL ELECTION SIGNS.
   Political election signs are hereby defined as signs promoting the election
of any candidate or party for office in any state, federal, county, municipal
or other governmental election.
   (A)   Installation of signs. No election sign shall be erected earlier than
the thirtieth day prior to any primary or special election for which the
candidate or party is seeking office.
   (B)   Removal of election signs. All candidates and slates of candidates,
jointly and severally shall be responsible for the removal of all signs erected
in the village, by such candidate, candidates, political party or its or their
supporters within 72 hours of the closing of the polls of such election.
   (C)   Costs of removal. In addition to the penalties provided in §
152.99, all such candidate, candidates, political party, jointly and severally
shall be responsible for the payment of all costs incurred and billed by the
village.
   (D)   Enforcement. The enforcement of the provisions of this section shall
be governed by
Chapter 11 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2226, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person erecting or maintaining any sign, billboard or signboard without
first obtaining a permit therefor is in violation of this chapter or any
ordinance or regulations and shall be fined not more than $750 for each
offense; a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-14) (Ord. 636, passed 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 153: PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
153.01   Definition
   
153.02   Application of provisions
   
153.03   Permit to construct
   
153.04   Location of pool and appurtenances
   
153.05   Construction specifications
   
153.06   Recirculation and filtering
   
153.07   Electrical requirements
   
153.08   Walk areas
   
153.09   Water supply and conditioning
   
153.10   Safety requirements
   
153.11   Pool operation and maintenance
   
153.12   Inspections
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 153.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS. Any permanent or portable type receptacle for water
or an artificial pool of water having a depth at a point of more than two feet
or with a surface area exceeding 250 square feet, constructed, installed and
maintained in or above the ground, outside of a building used for an individual
owner, his or her family and friends; provided that, a private residential
swimming pool is maintained by an individual primarily for the sole use of his
or her household and guests and not for the purpose of profit or in connection
with any business operated for profit.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1)
§ 153.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall apply to all temporary and permanent pools, whether they
be new or existing pools.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2)
§ 153.03 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall proceed to construct a private
swimming pool or make major alterations at an existing private pool without
first having obtained a permit therefor, issued and signed by the Village Clerk
or his authorized representative upon approval of the applicant.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be in writing
in the form prescribed by the Building Commissioner. The application shall
contain information as shall be required by the Building Commissioner for a
proper understanding of the proposed work.
   (C)   Construction plans. All drawings and plans for the construction,
installation, enlargement or alteration of any private swimming pool and
appurtenances shall first be presented to the Building Commissioner who shall
present same to the Chairperson of the Buildings and Plats Committee. The
Building and Plats Committee will then approve or reject plans or drawings
within 15 days.
   (D)   Permit fees. The fee for a permit for the erection or construction of
a swimming pool shall be $5 for each 50 square feet or fraction thereof of
surface area to be contained within the proposed pool as determined by the
plans and specifications submitted with the application for permit.
   (E)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of divisions (A), (B) and
(C) above shall not apply to swimming pools of permanent nature which have been
constructed prior to the effective date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3)
§ 153.04 LOCATION OF POOL AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools shall be permitted on any property
occupied by a one- or two-family dwelling.
   (B)   No portion of a private residential pool shall be located at a
distance less than six feet from any side or rear property line or building
line.
   (C)   Pumps, filters and pools of water disinfection equipment installations
shall be located at a distance not less than six feet from any side property
line.
   (D)   Pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in the side
yard between dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Wall slopes. To a depth of five feet from the top, the wall slope
shall not be more than one and one-half feet horizontal in five feet vertical.
   (B)   Floor slopes. The slope of the floor in the shallow end shall not
exceed one foot vertical to seven feet horizontal. The transition point between
shallow and deep water shall not be less than four and one-half feet and not
more than five feet deep.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-5) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 RECIRCULATION AND FILTERING.
   (A)   Recirculation required. All private swimming pools shall be of the
recirculation type in which circulation of the water is maintained through the
pool by pumps, the water drawn from the pool being clarified and disinfected
before being returned to the pool.
   (B)   Recirculation system and appurtenances.
      (1)   Private residential swimming pool recirculation systems shall
consist of pumping equipment, hair and lint catcher, filters, together with the
necessary pipe connections to the pool inlets and outlets, facilities and pipe
connections necessary for back washing filters and facilities and equipment for
disinfecting the pool water.
      (2)   The recirculation system pump shall have sufficient capacity to
discharge the volume of water required for an 18-hour turnover of the pool
against the maximum head in the recirculating system.
      (3)   The pump used for backwashing-type filters shall have sufficient
capacity to provide a filter backwash rate of at least ten gallons per minute
per square foot of filter area.
      (4)   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the
suction side of the circulation pump to prevent hair, lint and other extraneous
matter from reaching the pump filters. Hair and lint catcher shall be so
designed that they can be easily dismantled for cleaning and inspection and
shall be so located as to be easily accessible for cleaning.
      (5)   Recirculating systems shall contain rapid pressure filters.
Sufficient filter area shall be provided to filter the entire contents of the
pool in 18 hours at a rate of not more than five gallons per square foot of
filter area per minute. The filter backwashing facilities shall be sufficient
to backwash at a rate of ten gallons per minute per square foot of filter area.
All backwater and effluents shall be discharged to the sewer through an
indirect connection. Pressure filters shall be equipped with readily accessible
air relief valves loss of head or pressure gauges on the inlet and outlet pipes
to determine the frequency of cleaning and an access head or hole large enough
to permit inspection, maintenance and repair work. Sight glass that can be
easily removed for cleaning shall be provided in the effluent line from the
filter units. Operating instruction shall be posted on every filter system and
all valves shall be properly designated with metal tags indicating purpose.
   (C)   Inlets and outlets.
      (1)   Private residential swimming pool water recirculation system inlet
shall be located so as to produce, so far as possible, uniform circulation of
water throughout the pool without the existence of dead spots and to carry pool
bottom deposit to the outlets and shall discharge at a minimum of ten inches
below the pool overflow level. A main outlet shall be placed at the deepest
point in the pool and fitted with a safe grating. No direct connection shall be
made to the sewer. A minimum of one recirculation system inlet shall be
provided for every 615 square feet of surface area of the pool.
      (2)   Pools shall be equipped with suitable facilities for adding make-up
water as needed. There shall be no physical connection between the water supply
line and the pool system. If the make-up water is added directly to the pool,
the outlet shall be at least six inches above the upper rim of the pool. The
point of discharge shall be at least six inches above the rim of the tank. If a
hose connection from sill cock or other plumbing fixtures is to be used for
supplying make-up water, then an approved vacuum breaker shall be installed
between the sill cock or control valve at the fixture and the hose connection.
The vacuum breaker shall be installed at a height no less than seven feet six
inches above the floor, platform or ground upon which a person would stand when
operating the sill cock or control valve.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-6) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No overhead current-carrying electrical conductors shall cross private
residential swimming pools or be located within ten feet of the pools.
   (B)   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to private
residential swimming pools which might become electrically alive as a result of
contact with broken overhead conductors or from any other cause shall be
effectively grounded.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-7) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 WALK AREAS.
   (A)   Unobstructed walk areas not less than 24 inches wide shall be provided
to extend entirely around the pool, with an area of not less than three feet by
five feet at gate entrance and an area of not less then three feet by five feet
at all diving board locations.
   (B)   The walk area shall be constructed of impervious material and the
surfaces shall be smooth and easily cleaned and of nonslip construction.
   (C)   The slope of the walks shall have a pitch of at least one-fourth inch
to the foot, designed so as to prevent back drainage from entering the pool.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-8) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 WATER SUPPLY AND CONDITIONING.
   (A)   Water supply. Any person under the terms of this chapter who has a
house connection to the existing waterworks system may use same for filling and
replacement of water in the swimming pool. Should the user not have a hook-up
to the waterworks system, in accordance with the terms and provisions of
ordinances relating to same, then he or she shall be required to make
application with the village for filling of the pool through the Department of
Public Works of the village.
   (B)   Quality of water.
      (1)   The water supply when in the pool shall meet the following clarity
criterion: filters shall be capable of maintaining the clarity of the water to
permit the ready identification, through an eight foot depth of water, of a
disc two inches in diameter, which is divided into four quadrants in alternate
colors of red and white.
      (2)   Equipment shall be provided for the disinfection of all pool water.
Any disinfection method using materials other than chlorine compounds shall
have sufficient capacity to maintain a free chlorine residual of six-tenths to
one parts per million. The disinfectant shall be introduced onto the
recirculation system ahead of the filters. pH shall be a minimum of 7.2 or a
maximum of 7.6. A test kit with permanent color standards shall be provided at
all private pools and shall be used at frequent intervals to check on the
adequacy of the chlorine treatment.
      (3)   Gaseous chlorination systems shall not be made use of as a
disinfection method for pool water.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-9) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Steps or ladders.
      (1)   Two or more means of egress in the form of steps or ladders shall
be provided for all private residential swimming pools. At least one means of
egress shall be located on a side of the pool at both deep end and shallow end
of the pool.
      (2)   Treads of steps and ladders shall be constructed of a nonslip
material and at least two and one-half inches wide for their full length.
      (3)   Steps and ladders shall have handrail on both sides.
   (B)   Fences.
      (1)   All private, inground swimming pools shall be completely enclosed
by a fence constructed, erected and maintained along the periphery of the pool
walks and enclosing the pool.
      (2)   All private, aboveground swimming pools and all portable swimming
pools shall be completely enclosed by a fence in compliance with either of the
following divisions:
         (a)   By a fence constructed, erected and maintained at the perimeter
of the property upon which the subject private swimming pool is located and
enclosing the property; or
         (b)   As to aboveground portable pools with a platform along the edge
of the pool area, by a fence constructed, erected and maintained on the outer
perimeter of the platform and enclosing the pool.
      (3)   In addition, all private residential swimming pool fences shall
comply with the following provisions.
         (a)   All fence openings or points of entry into the pool area
enclosure shall be equipped with gates.
         (b)   All fences and gates shall be at least three feet six inches in
height and shall not exceed six feet in height.
         (c)   All gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching
devices placed at the top of the gate and shall be made inaccessible to small
children.
         (d)   All gates shall be provided with a lock, either key or
combination, and shall be locked to prevent entrance when the pool is filled
and is not being used for swimming.
   (C)   Portable swimming pools. In addition to the fencing and other
requirements of this chapter, all portable pools, as previously defined, shall
comply with the following restrictions. No permanent ladder shall be used in
connection with portable pools, and all ladders which are used shall be removed
and safely stored when the pool is not being used for swimming.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-10) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 POOL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All private residential swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition, and all equipment shall be maintained in a satisfactory
operating condition during periods the pool is in use.
   (B)   No private residential swimming pool shall be used, kept, maintained
or operated in the village if the use, keeping, maintaining or operating shall
be the occasion of any nuisance or shall be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-11) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Commissioner and Chairperson of the Village Committee on Health
and Safety shall, periodically, inspect all private residential swimming pools
to determine whether or not the provisions of this chapter regarding health,
sanitation and safety applicable thereto are being complied with.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-12)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-13)
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
153.10(B) shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   Any person violating §
153.10(C) shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a
violation continues to exist.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-10)
(Ord. 665, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 983, passed 8-1-1985; Ord. 984, passed 8-1-
1985)
CHAPTER 154: TENTS
Section
   
154.01   License requirements
   
154.02   Size and location
   
154.03   Construction requirements
   
154.04   Exits and aisles
   
154.05   Fire prevention and protection
   
154.06   Lighting and electrical requirements
   
154.07   Tent use restrictions
   
154.08   Supervision during performances and exhibitions
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 154.01 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No tent exceeding 120 square feet in area shall be erected, maintained,
operated or used, except under a license. The license shall not be issued for a
period exceeding 30 days and shall be revokable for cause. Application shall be
made on proper form and, when deemed necessary by the Fire Chief, shall include
plans, drawn to scale, showing exits, aisles and seating arrangements and
details of structural support of tents, seats, platforms and the like. No
license shall be issued until the provisions of this chapter have been complied
with and approval has been obtained from the Building Department, the Police
Department, the Fire Department, the Board of Trustees and the Mayor. When
tents are to be used for 200 or more persons, approval must be obtained from
each and every department having jurisdiction over places of assembly and the
Board of Trustees and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.02 SIZE AND LOCATION.
   Tents exceeding 120 square feet in area shall not be erected in the village
limits, nor within 20 feet of other buildings.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All tents shall be constructed and erected to withstand a
wind pressure of ten pounds per square foot.
   (B)   Tier height. No tier of seats shall rise to a height exceeding 12
feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04 EXITS AND AISLES.
   (A)   Exits.
      (1)   A minimum of two exits shall be provided where a tent is used as a
place of assembly with a capacity of 100 or more persons, in any tent where ten
or more persons sleep and in any tent involving conditions hazardous to life.
      (2)   When tents are used as places of assembly with a capacity in excess
of 500 people, each exit shall be not less than nine feet wide, and the number
of exits shall be based upon the ratio of one exit to each 500 persons or major
fraction thereof which the tent is designed to seat or hold. The exits shall be
placed not over 75 feet apart, and exitways serving the exits shall be not less
than nine feet in clear width.
      (3)   In tents having a capacity of 1,000 or over, facilities must be
provided for admitting patrons on opposite sides or ends convenient to their
seating locations. The purpose of this requirement is to prevent congestion
during the seating period and familiarize patrons with exits closest to their
seats.
      (4)   Where two or more tents adjoin with an opening between, an exit to
the outside shall be provided at the point of juncture.
      (5)   All required exits, other than those normally used for entrance,
shall be plainly marked during hours of darkness, as to be readily
distinguished. Required exitways shall also be kept adequately lighted at such
times, including the immediate area outside the exits.
   (B)   Aisles. Aisles not less than 44 inches in width shall be provided so
that there are not more than ten seats between any seat and an aisle. Where
individual seats are not provided, a distance of 18 inches along any bench or
platform shall constitute one seat in computing required aisles and exits.
Every aisle shall lead directly to an exitway or to a cross aisle running
parallel with the seat rows and leading to an exitway. The aisles shall not be
less in width than the combined width of aisles that they connect.
   (C)   Use of aisles and exits. Aisles and exitways shall be used only for
passage to and from seats and for vendors carrying their wares.
   (D)   Obstructing aisles and exits prohibited. No poles or ropes shall be
permitted in aisles and exitways, and all exitways and exits shall be kept free
and clear and be made readily passable.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION.
   (A)   Fire-resistant materials.
      (1)   All canvas, curtains, cloth, rope, netting and decorative material
shall be rendered flameproof; provided that, flameproofing will not be required
where tents are open on one side and have standing capacity only for not
exceeding 20 people. A test for flameproofing shall be made of the tent by the
Fire Department prior to each erection and on the decorative and other
materials before they are attached to or placed therein. In lieu of the tests,
the Fire Department may accept a certificate from the manufacturer that the
material has been tested by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., or some other
recognized laboratory and found to be permanently flameproofed; provided the
material has proper identification markings and is not more than three years
old or has not been waterproofed subsequently by a process which increases its
flammability.
      (2)   Where tents are used as places of assembly with a capacity of 200
or more persons, the seats, chairs, jacks and other appurtenances, if of wood,
must be suitably treated to reduce the fire hazard by a suitable application of
a surface treatment or by impregnation.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited.
      (1)   Signs posted. Signs prohibiting smoking shall be prominently
displayed at all entrances at other locations within any tent used as a place
of assembly so that they may be clearly visible to all occupants. Frequent
announcement regarding the prohibition shall be made, preferably over a public
address system if available.
      (2)   Containers and attendants at entrances. Suitable noncombustible
containers shall be provided at all entrances for the proper disposition of
cigar or cigarette butts and pipe dottle, and a uniformed attendant shall be
stationed at the locations to advise patrons of the no-smoking regulations.
   (C)   Motion picture film. No motion picture film of the nitrocellulose type
shall be used, stored or exhibited within a tent. Showing shall be restricted
to the use of safety film only.
   (D)   Equipment using gasoline. All equipment using gasoline shall be filled
with approved safety cans or by hoses from fixed pumps, from wheeled tanks with
pumps or pumped from a tank wagon located not closer than 25 feet to any tent.
   (E)   Inspections; firefighting apparatus.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall survey, or cause to be
surveyed, each tent for which a permit has been granted after it is erected
and, if it is to be used as a place of assembly, before it is occupied. He or
she shall require the installation of the fire appliances as are deemed
necessary and designate their location. The fire appliances may consist of
water tanks, pumps, hoses, water buckets, extinguishers and fireproof blankets.
      (2)   All fire appliances shall be kept in working condition, and all
pumps and hoses, when used in connection with tank wagons, shall be inspected
and tested, if deemed necessary, prior to the occupancy of the tent. Portable
extinguishers and similar appliances shall be properly distributed and readily
accessible. It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of each exhibition to
properly train sufficient responsible employees in the use of fire equipment so
that it can be quickly put in operation; the Chief of the Fire Department may
require these employees to prove their fitness.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 LIGHTING AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. All lighting shall be by electricity, with lamps properly
guarded to prevent ignition by radiation. In places of assembly, emergency
lighting facilities must be as provided in the Building and Electrical Codes
for theaters.
   (B)   Wiring conductors. All wiring conductors shall be of a type approved
for the class of service and shall be protected against overcurrent. Loads for
feeders and branch lines shall be limited in accordance with the carrying
capacities as specified in the National Electrical Code. When deemed necessary
by the Electrical Inspector, conductors shall be trenched and covered.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.07 TENT USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Tents in which persons sleep and mess tents shall not be used for any
exhibition purpose.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.08 SUPERVISION DURING PERFORMANCES AND EXHIBITIONS.
   Uniformed firefighters shall be detailed to all circuses, carnivals or other
exhibitions where large crowds assemble. They shall familiarize themselves with
all fire protection facilities and fire prevention features and with the
condition of exits and shall patrol the entire area of the tent during the time
it is occupied. Special police officers or firefighters shall see that
overcrowding is not permitted, that aisles and exitways are kept open and that
no-smoking rules are observed.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-8)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Conditions of sale or lease of land
   
155.03   Conditions of recording plat or subdivision
   
155.04   Fees
Platting Procedures and Requirements
   
155.15   Tentative plan
   
155.16   Final presentation to Plan Commission; guarantee of improvements
   
155.17   Final plat
   
155.18   Recordation of approved plat
Design Standards
   
155.30   Street plan
   
155.31   Right-of-way widths
   
155.32   Details of street and sidewalk design
   
155.33   Alleys
   
155.34   Pedestrianways
   
155.35   Easements
   
155.36   Blocks
   
155.37   Lots
   
155.38   Lot and block drainage plans
Required Land Improvements
   
155.50   Improvements required; guarantee
   
155.51   Plans and specifications; construction
   
155.52   Utilities
   
155.53   Street improvements
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A planned development need not be resubdivided into
individual lots; however, it shall be controlled by the following regulations
governing subdivisions.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of a lot, tract or parcel into four or more lots or
other divisions of land for the immediate or future purpose of:
      (1)   Transfer of ownership;
      (2)   Building development; or
      (3)   Redevelopment, including all changes in street or lot lines.
   VARIATIONS.
      (1)   Deviations from the requirements of the plan as may be approved and
granted by the Village Board after review by the Plan Commission, provided they
are within the general plan or spirit of the plan.
      (2)   Recommendations regarding proposed variations shall be in
compliance with the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3A-1)
§ 155.02 CONDITIONS OF SALE OR LEASE OF LAND.
   From and after the effective date of these rules and regulations, it shall
be unlawful to sell any lot or block or portion thereof which is subject to the
provisions of this chapter within the village or contiguous unincorporated
territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits of
the village and not included in any other municipality unless a plan or plat:
   (A)   Has been recorded with the office of the appropriate County Recorder
prior to the adoption of these regulations; or
   (B)   Has been approved by the Village Plan Commission and been recorded in
compliance with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3A-2) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 CONDITIONS OF RECORDING PLAT OR SUBDIVISION.
   No recorder shall record any map, plat, plan or subdivision of land situated
in the village nor within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits
thereof and not included in any other municipality unless the map, plat, plan
or subdivision is entitled to record by reason of official approval by the
Village Plan Commission as required by these regulations and unless the
subdivision shown thereon provided for streets, alleys and public grounds in
conformity with the applicable requirements of these regulations and all other
parts of the Official Plan of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3A-3) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 FEES.
   (A)   Filing fees.
      (1)   A fee in the amount hereinafter provided for is hereby charged the
applicant or applicants for each proposed subdivision for which approval is
sought hereunder, to cover the costs incurred by the village in checking and
considering the plans and plat as provided herein. The fee shall be paid in
cash to the Village Clerk and the plans and plat for any proposed subdivision,
preliminary or otherwise, shall not be considered without the receipt of the
Village Clerk being first exhibited showing the payment of the fee payable
hereunder for such consideration, and no fee so paid shall be refunded
regardless of whether the proposed subdivision is approved or disapproved. The
amount of the fee payable as aforesaid shall be determined in accordance with
the following schedule.
      (2)   For a proposed subdivision containing the following, the fee shall
be:
 
5 acres or less                     $50
Over 5 acres, but not exceeding 10  $75
Over 10 acres, but not exceeding 20 $125
Over 20 acres                       $175
 
   (B)   Review fees.
      (1)   Plans and specifications for all improvements in the proposed
subdivision shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for review and approval
before final disposition of the plat of subdivision. The costs incurred by the
village for this review shall be borne by the owner or subdivider. This cost
shall be computed on the following schedule:
Schedule A
First $ 50,000 of construction cost @ 1.5%
Next $ 50,000 of construction cost @ 1.25%
Next $ 50,000 of construction cost @ 1.00%
Next $100,000 of construction cost @ 0.80%
Next $100,000 of construction cost @ 0.70%
Next $150,000 of construction cost @ 0.60%
Next $150,000.00 of construction cost @ 0.50%
 
      (2)   This fee will be used upon the Engineer’s estimate of cost and is
payable to the village prior to recording the plat of subdivision.
   (C)   Inspection fee. All public improvements proposed to be made under the
provisions of this Plan, in accordance with the final record plat, shall be
inspected during the course of construction by a duly designated representative
of the village. Costs connected with the inspection shall be figured at the
rate of 2% of the total estimated costs of construction. Estimated cost of
construction shall be determined by the village. The costs shall be borne by
the subdivider and shall be payable to the village.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3A-4)
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.15 TENTATIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Filing tentative plan requirements. Any owner of land within the
corporate limits of the village or within one and one-half miles of the
corporate limits, wishing to divide the same into building lots for the purpose
of sale or assessment or both or wishing to dedicate streets and alleys or
easements and other lands for public use shall first submit to the village a
tentative plan of subdivision, with ten copies of blueprints (one copy for the
Village Board, seven copies for the Plan Commission members and two copies for
the Plan Commission file, one of which is to be signed and returned to the
property owner, and one to be filed in the Plan Commission office for public
record). The tentative plan shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Identification and description.
         (a)   Plan to be titled “Tentative Plan” and show the date of
preparation. Revisions to this plan shall be indicated by alphabetical letters
and show the date of the revision;
         (b)   Each tentative plan shall be drawn to a minimum scale of one
inch equals 100 feet. The tentative plan shall show the boundaries of the
property to be subdivided, section and half-section lines, existing permanent
buildings, water-courses and other existing features pertinent to proper
subdivision;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the owners, the developer and the
designer who made the plat, and the title under which the proposed subdivision
is to be recorded;
         (d)   Date of preparation; and
         (e)   Northpoint.
      (2)   Delineation of existing conditions.
         (a)   Boundary lines of proposed subdivision indicated by a solid
heavy line and a notation of the approximate total acreage encompassed thereby;
         (b)   Location, widths and names of all existing streets or other
public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way, easements, parks and other
public spaces, permanent buildings and structures and section and corporation
lines within and adjacent to the tract;
         (c)   Exact locations of existing sanitary and storm sewers, water
mains, culverts and other underground facilities within the tract and to a
distance of 100 feet beyond the tract and the invert grade elevations of catch
basins, manholes and culverts;
         (d)   Boundary lines of adjacent properties for a distance of not less
than 100 feet from the proposed subdivision. Ownership of these properties
shall be shown wherever possible;
         (e)   Existing zoning classifications of proposed subdivision and
adjacent tracts;
         (f)   Topographic data including existing contours at vertical
intervals of not more than one foot, except in unusual topographical conditions
which demand greater intervals; the vertical intervals may be required to be
altered as determined by the Village Engineer. The location of water-courses,
marshes and other significant features. Soil boring data and seepage tests may
be required at locations and depths as determined by the Village Engineer; and
         (g)   Locations of or reference to locations of existing monuments or
survey markers used in preparation of survey and grade elevation of each
monument and marker.
      (3)   Delineation of proposed conditions. (The preliminary plan shall be
in substantial accord with the Official Plan, as amended from time to time.)
         (a)   Street system, including right-of-way widths and street names
with proposed through streets shown extending to the boundaries of subdivision,
proposed streets which are obviously in alignment of continuation of existing
streets already named shall bear the name of existing street. In no case shall
the name for proposed streets duplicate or be confused with existing street
names in the village or within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits,
thereof, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, road, boulevard,
drive, place or court or an abbreviation thereof;
         (b)   Location and width of alleys, pedestrian-ways and utility
easements. Drainage easements are the only ones which need to be shown in a
tentative location;
         (c)   Layout, numbers and typical dimensions of blocks and lots,
scaled to the nearest foot, and proposed land use for each lot, parcel or
tract;
         (d)   Building setback lines, indicating dimensions;
         (e)   Proposed village zoning districts for subdivisions to be annexed
into the village prior to filing final plat or to be rezoned from its existing
classification prior to filing final plat;
         (f)   Areas (other than those listed in divisions (A)(3)(a), (b) and
(c) above) intended to be dedicated or reserved for community facilities
purposes, indicating, for each, the approximate acreage. The areas shall be
designated by number;
         (g)   Lots or parcels of land not suitable for construction where
known, and not intended for dedication or temporarily reserved for public use;
         (h)   An outline of protective covenants, if applicable;
         (i)   General description of the type, kind, character and extent of
required improvements proposed to be constructed or installed; and
         (j)   Other information or data that the Plan Commission may require
for the full and complete consideration of the proposed plan of subdivision.
      (4)   Municipal boundaries. All corporate boundary lines within or
adjacent to the property shall so be designated.
      (5)   Names. The name of the proposed subdivision with the name or names
of the owner, sponsor or trustees shall be shown.
      (6)   Notice of approval. The following “notice of approval” shall be
indicated on the drawing as follows:
      Notice is hereby given that the general plan of the subdivision shown in
this plan has received approval of the Plan Commission of the Village of
Crestwood, and that the Plan Commission is now ready to receive the final plat
for consideration,
   Date
                                                                                           
   The Plan Commission of Village of Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois
                                                                                    
Chairperson
   (B)   Referral of plan; approval procedures.
      (1)   The village shall, by motion, refer the tentative plan to the Plan
Commission and shall, at the same time, instruct the Village Engineer to
collaborate with the subdivider and the Plan Commission to determine that all
facilities are available and adequate for the improvements as are required by
this chapter.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall then approve or disapprove the tentative
plan; provided, however, that, if the tentative plan is not satisfactory as
originally presented, the Plan Commission may cause the subdivider to make
changes as may be required by the Plan Commission and thereupon approve the
same. Upon approval of the tentative plan, the notice of approval shall be
signed by the Chairperson. One copy of the signed approved plan shall thereupon
be returned to the subdivider and one signed copy shall be retained by the Plan
Commission for public record.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3B-1)
§ 155.16 FINAL PRESENTATION TO PLAN COMMISSION; GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Subsequent to conditional approval of the preliminary plan, but prior
to the submission of the final plat, the developing engineer and the Village
Engineer shall cooperate on a consideration of the proposed plans,
specifications and engineering calculations of such features as the following:
water supply and water distribution system, sanitary sewerage system, including
mains and sewerage disposal or treatment facilities, storm water drainage
system, gas, telephone and electric service easements, street lighting, street
name signs, fire hydrants, grading, gradients and widths of roadways and
sidewalks, the paving of roadways and sidewalks and proposed detailed grading
plans of blocks and lots. Prior to review of the final plat by the Plan
Commission, the Village Engineer and other public officials having jurisdiction
shall approve or make recommendations for revisions in the proposed plans and
specifications, and they shall certify approval of the final plans and
specifications prior to approval of the final plat by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   After the Plan Commission has approved the tentative plan, the
subdivider shall submit to the Plan Commission a final plat, as described in §
155.17, together with following supporting documents:
      (1)   A master plan and plan and profiles approved by the Village
Engineer showing, in detail, plans for sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water,
street pavements, walks, street lights, lot and block and off-site grading
improvements and house numbering plan. Elevation shall be referred to some
permanent bench mark. Profiles shall be drawn to a horizontal scale of 50 feet
to one inch and vertical scale of five feet to one inch.
      (2)   A statement signed by the subdivider setting forth the public
improvements he or she proposes to make in the subdivision together with plans
and specifications approved by the Village Engineer clearly describing the
improvements and agreeing to make the improvements at his or her own expense
(subject to approval of the final plat by the Village Board), with the time
limit fixed by the Plan Commission. This agreement shall provide for the method
of selection of the contractors engaged to construct the improvements, require
their approval by the Village Engineer and require them to submit evidence and
indemnifying the village against any loss or damage to persons or property
during the course of the work. The agreement is subject to approval of the
final plat by the Village Board.
      (3)   A statement of approval, signed by the Village Engineer, certifying
that the improvements described in the subdivider’s statement meet the minimum
requirements of this chapter and giving an estimate of the cost of the
improvements, including the cost of engineering and inspection.
      (4)   A duly completed and executed corporate completion bond posted with
the village by the subdivider in an amount equal to the Village Engineer’s
estimate, and certified by the Village Attorney as good, valid and enforceable
by the village, or a cash bond in an amount securing the satisfactory
completion of all public improvements in strict accordance with the
description, plans and specifications submitted by the subdivider and approved
by the Village Board.
      (5)   Evidence satisfactory to the Plan Commission showing that all taxes
and special assessments due on the property to be subdivided have been paid.
      (6)   Deposit with the Village Clerk all fees as required by this chapter
in connection with publication, hearings, plat fees, engineering review of
plans and inspection fees for improvements.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3B-2)
§ 155.17 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Requirements. The final plat to be submitted to the Plan Commission
shall be substantially in accordance with the approved tentative plan and shall
be drawn by a registered state land surveyor on tracing cloth to a scale no
smaller than 100 feet to one inch. Three blueprints (one copy for Plan
Commission public record and one copy, each, for the Chairperson and Secretary)
of the final plat shall accompany the same. The final plat shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Name of subdivision. The name of proposed subdivision shall be
shown;
      (2)   Identification and description.
         (a)   A legal description of the property shall be given which
includes reference to the sections, township and range, government section
lines and corners, half-section lines, the location and dimensions of all
streets (with their names), alleys and easements shall be shown;
         (b)   The names of the owner, the developer, and the designer who made
the plat, and the title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded.
This plat shall be certified by a registered land surveyor of the state;
         (c)   Scale of plat, not smaller than one inch equals 100 feet;
         (d)   Date of preparation; and
         (e)   Northpoint.
      (3)   Delineation.
         (a)   Boundary of the plat based on an accurate traverse, with angular
and lineal dimensions. Error of closure of the boundary line survey shall not
exceed standards established by the Village Engineer;
         (b)   Exact locations, widths and names of all streets within and
adjoining plat and exact location and widths of all alleys and crosswalks.
Proposed street names shall be in conformity with the Street Naming Plan of the
village;
         (c)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street
lines or official monuments (not less than two of which shall be accurately
described on the plat);
         (d)   Show accurately, the locations of all permanent lot markers as
actually installed in accordance with village standards;
         (e)   Municipal, township or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
         (f)   Radii, internal angles, points or curvature, tangents, bearings
and lengths of all curves;
         (g)   All easements of rights-of-way for public service utilities or
other purposes. All easements shall also be drainage easements;
         (h)   All lot and block numbers with their lines accurately
dimensioned in feet and one-hundredths, and where an angle occurs in any lot
line between lot corners, the measurement of the angle shall be shown in
degrees, minutes and seconds;
         (i)   Building setback lines accurately shown and dimensioned;
         (j)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for the common use of all property
owners. When the tract or tracts dedicated or reserved for public use are not
within the corporate limits of the village, the certificate of dedication shall
provide that the future official act of annexation of the tract or tracts to
the village shall constitute a transfer of title to the village for the public
use; and
         (k)   The description and location of all survey monuments erected in
the subdivision shall be shown; the monuments shall be either iron pipe not
less than one inch in diameter and 30 inches long or stone or concrete not less
than four inches in diameter and 24 inches long. Permanent monuments shall be
erected at all points where street lines interest the exterior boundaries of
the subdivision and at angle points of curve in each street.
      (4)   Certificates. Appropriate certificates, as follows: (The final two
certificates shall be certified last and in the order listed.)
         (a)   Owner’s certificate;
         (b)   Notary certificate;
         (c)   County Clerk certificate;
         (d)   Certificate as to special assessments;
         (e)   Surveyor’s certificate;
         (f)   State Division of Waterways, if plan drawn is located within 500
feet of a stream draining 640 acres or more of land;
         (g)   Plan Commission certificate; and
         (h)   Village Board certificate.
         *NOTE: Certification on final plats of subdivision located in the
unincorporated areas within one and one-half miles beyond the village limits
shall be those required by the County Subdivision Regulations, except when the
village regulations are more restrictive, the applicable village division
certifications shall also be required.
      (5)   Notice of approval. The following “notice of approval” shall be
indicated on the plan as follows:
      Approved by the Plan Commission of the Village of Crestwood, Cook County,
Illinois, this          day of                                 ,
                A.D.
   Signed
                                                                                                              
      Chairperson
   Attested
                                                                                                            
      Secretary
      (6)   Flood plain restrictions. Refer to Chapter 151 of this code of
ordinances.
      (7)   Revisions.
         (a)   Revisions made to this plan shall be indicated by alphabetical
letters and show the date of the revision. NOTE: The final plat must show items
that run with the land and contain the following information to be recorded
with County Recorder’s office:
            1.   Name of subdivision;
            2.   Date of preparation;
            3.   Correct survey;
            4.   Legal description;
            5.   Street;
            6.   Street names;
            7.   Lot lines;
            8.   Easements;
            9.   Setback lines;
            10.   Covenants and agreements;
            11.   Dimensions;
            12.   Monuments; and
            13.   Certificates, seals and signatures.
         (b)   The final plat need not show items that do not run with the land
such as street signs, buildings, sidewalks, water lines, sewer lines and the
like. However, they must be backed by the plans or plots or affidavits. The
Plan Commission must be satisfied that all the requirements of this chapter are
provided for either by plans, plots or affidavits. (Plans and plots consist of
land surveys, site improvement plans, grading plans, water and sewer plans.)
   (B)   Variations. Variations of the Official Plan may be made under the
provisions outlined in §
156.17.
   (C)   Approval of final plat.
      (1)   Approval by Plan Commission. When the Plan Commission has approved
the final plat, it shall be signed by the Chairperson and attested by the
Secretary of the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall then transmit the
approved final plat to the Village Board together with a letter of transmittal
calling the Board’s attention to all variations (if any) recommended by the
Plan Commission and setting forth its reasons for recommending the same and
conveying to the Board other information concerning the final plat as the Plan
Commission may deem necessary. With approval of the final plat, the Plan
Commission shall also transmit to the Board the subdivider’s agreement, with
respect to improvements, the Village Engineer approval of improvements and all
plans, specifications, estimates, completion bonds and all other documents,
certificates and papers pertaining to the final plat and the subdivision
platted thereon.
      (2)   Approval by Village Board. When the Village Board is satisfied with
the final plat, together with all improvements, conditions and documents
pertaining to the subdivision platted thereon, the Board shall, by motion,
approve the plan and authorize and direct the Mayor to affix the Board’s stamp
of approval and to sign the plan for and in the name of the village. The
approval shall be attested by the Village Clerk and sealed with the Corporate
Seal of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3B-3)
§ 155.18 RECORDATION OF APPROVED PLAT.
   Upon approval of a plat, as herein provided, the Village Clerk, or other
official whom the Village Board may, from time to time, designate, shall
forthwith record the plat in the Recorder’s office of the county; provided,
however, that, all costs incidental to the recordation shall be paid for by the
submitting subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3B-4)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.30 STREET PLAN.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the Official Plan and shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic
within the subdivision and adjoining lands, to topographic condition to runoff
of storm water, to public convenience and safety and in their appropriate
relations to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
   (B)   A public street or streets shall be provided to afford convenient
access to all property within the subdivision.
   (C)   The proposed street system shall extend existing adjoining streets
unless the extension thereof would not be practical and is approved by the Plan
Commission.
   (D)   Where, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, the proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundary of the property. Proposed streets which
are obviously in alignment of continuation of existing streets already named
shall bear the name of the existing street. In no case shall the name for a
proposed street duplicate or be confused with existing street names in the
village or within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits thereof,
irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, road, boulevard, drive,
place or court, or an abbreviation thereof. Street signs of the type adopted by
the village shall be erected at each and every intersection.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-1-(1))
§ 155.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS.
   The minimum width of right-of-way of a street measured between the lines of
property abutting upon the right-of-way shall not be less than indicated by the
Village Standards, Drawing No. 1. The entire right-of-way shall be provided
where any part of the subdivision is on both sides of the right-of-way. When
the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing right-of-way, which
is less than the required width, the subdivider shall dedicate an additional
right-of-way to meet the requirements but not to exceed one-half of the total
required width.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-1-(2))
§ 155.32 DETAILS OF STREET AND SIDEWALK DESIGN.
   (A)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sac streets in Single-Family Residential Districts
shall not be more than 600 feet in length, measured along their center lines
from the streets of origin to the ends of their right-of-way, or may be longer
than 600 feet, provided not more than 20 lots abut upon their right-of-way
lines. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with a
minimum diameter of 120 feet. The terminus shall be connected with each right-
of-way line of the approach segment of the street by a reverse curvation having
a radius of not less than 30 feet.
   (B)   Street curves.
      (1)   Curves in streets shall be permitted; provided, no curve shall be
greater than that approved by the Village Engineer as reasonably safe for
traffic at the particular location of the curve, but with a radius of not less
than:
 
Minor streets                 150 feet
Primary and collector streets 300 feet
 
      (2)   Minimum length of tangents between reverse curves:
 
Collector streets  100 feet
Cul-de-sac streets Not allowed
Minor streets      50 feet
Primary streets    200 feet
 
      (3)   Different connecting street gradients shall be connected with
vertical curves. Minimum length in feet of curves shall not be less than:
 
Minor and cul-de-sac streets  20 feet for each 1% algebraic difference of grade
                              but in no case less than 100 feet
Primary and collector streets 30 feet for each 1% algebraic difference of grade
                              but in no case less than 100 feet
 
   (C)   Street jogs. Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 125
feet shall not be permitted if the same can be reasonably avoided.
   (D)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so aligned that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   (E)   Intersections. Street intersections and confluences shall be planned
in a manner that will provide safe and efficient traffic flow. Streets shall
intersect at or near right angles, and an intersection of more than two streets
shall be avoided unless specific conditions of designs indicate otherwise. No
street shall intersect any other at less than 60 degrees.
   (F)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited wherever possible.
Wherever an existing or dedicated half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half street shall be platted within the tract. A half
street, where included, shall be graded at one level, and the regarding or new
construction on any half street shall conform to the grade and pavement of the
adjacent street. Where the adjacent half street is unimproved, the developer of
the plat being subdivided shall complete the construction of the unimproved
section to grade with stone shoulder a minimum width of ten feet.
   (G)   Access ways.
      (1)   Provisions shall be made for vehicular and pedestrian access to
residential property abutting limited access roads either:
         (a)   By providing marginal access streets; or
         (b)   By backing lots to the thoroughfare and providing access by a
collector, minor or cul-de-sac street one lot depth removed and with a visual
barrier established in a nonaccess reservation strip along the rear property
line (abutting the thoroughfare).
      (2)   These standards are established for the purpose of providing
protection to residential properties and to separate through and local traffic.
   (H)   Street grades. Longitudinal gradients of streets shall be at least
0.4% and not exceed the following:
 
Minor streets   10%
Primary streets 8%
 
   (I)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks of minimum five-foot width and five-inch
thickness, constructed in accordance with State Division of Highways Department
of Public Works standards, shall be required on all subdivisions, in accordance
with the requirements set forth by the village specifying location and type of
material as indicated by the Village Standards, Drawing No. 1.
   (J)   Street arrangement: Streets shall be related appropriately to the
topography and all streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as
possible of the building sites at or above the grades of the street. Grades of
streets shall conform as closely as possible with the original topography.
Topography permitting a combination of street grade curves shall be avoided.
   (K)   Side streets. Side streets shall be completed to the back lot line of
adjacent developed lots.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-1-(3))
§ 155.33 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys may be provided at the rear of all lots or tracts intended for
business, commercial or industrial use and where necessary for multiple-family
buildings use but shall not be provided in single-family residential blocks. If
the subdivider produces evidence that other access streets are available and
that an alley is not required for loading, unloading and fire protection, then
this provision providing for alleys may be waived upon the recommendation of
the Plan Commission to the Village Board.
   (B)   Alleys shall be at least 20 feet wide in all commercial, industrial
and business areas unless the areas are otherwise provided with off-street
loading space.
   (C)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible but, if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the dead-end, as
determined by the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-1-(4))
§ 155.34 PEDESTRIANWAYS.
   (A)   Pedestrianways shall be at least 12 feet wide where permitted.
   (B)   Sidewalks located within the pedestrianways shall be as specified in
this chapter, except they shall not be less than five feet, nor more than seven
feet in width with a barrier installed of a nature which will prohibit
vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-1-(5))
§ 155.35 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be dedicated easements a minimum of ten feet in width,
one-half on each lot, for drainage, electric and telephone utility poles, wires
and conduits, storm and sanitary sewer, gas, water or other utility pipes or
lines along the rear of each lot and along the side lot lines where necessary.
The easements shall be so laid out that a proper continuity may be had for the
utilities from lot to lot and from block to block. No buildings or structures
shall be constructed on or over the easements.
   (B)   Generally, electric and telephone facilities are to be located on the
north and east portions of the easement and other facilities on the south and
west portions. At deflection points in these easements, if overhead utility
lines are contemplated, additional easements may be established for pole-line
anchors.
   (C)   A statement in approved form granting the right of ingress and egress
for the installation and maintenance of utilities, sewers, water mains or
maintenance of watercourses shall be shown on the plat. The property owner
shall be responsible for the maintenance of the easements.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-2)
§ 155.36 BLOCKS.
   (A)   In residential subdivisions, the maximum lengths of blocks shall be
1,320 lineal feet. No blocks shall be less than 400 lineal feet in length
unless approved by the Plan Commission. Pedestrainways leading to parks,
schools or other common destinations may be required by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   In business, commercial and industrial subdivisions, block lengths
shall be as approved by the Plan Commission, in accordance with proposed
function and location of each subdivision.
   (C)   The shape of blocks shall be dictated by topographic features, the
basic street system and traffic pattern, lot depths and areas designated for
public and other nonresidential land uses. Blocks shall be wide enough to allow
two tiers of lots, except where fronting on major streets or prevented by
topographical conditions or size of the property, in which case, a single tier
of lots may be approved.
   (D)   Where a subdivision borders upon or is traversed by a railroad right-
of-way or arterial street, the Plan Commission may require a street (on one or
both sides of the right-of-way or street) approximately parallel to and at a
distance removed suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land,
i.e., park purposes, deep residential lots with a visual barrier established in
a buffer planting strip along the rear property lines and off-street parking,
business or other uses as permitted by the Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-3)
§ 155.37 LOTS.
   (A)   In general, lots should be as nearly rectangular in shape as
practicable.
   (B)   Width and area of lots shall conform with lot width and area
requirements set forth in the Zoning Ordinance of the village, or that of the
county for subdivisions located in the unincorporated areas within one and one-
half miles beyond the village limits. In the case of corner lots, the Plan
Commission may make variations to encourage the proper development of
intersection design and traffic safety, and corner lots may be increased in
width to 20% over the width of the typical interior lot and must provide for
appropriate building setback distances and orientation to both streets. No lot
shall be less than 50 feet wide at the building setback line.
   (C)   Depth of the lots shall not be less than 110 feet, except where
continuations or existing streets extended do not permit compliance with this
section.
   (D)   Width, area and depth of lots in an industrial, commercial or business
subdivision shall be as approved by the Plan Commission in accordance with the
proposed function and location of each subdivision, but shall be adequate to
provide for off-street service and parking facilities required by the type and
use of the development contemplated.
   (E)   All lots shall abut upon a public street.
   (F)   Side lines of lots shall be at right angles or radial to the street
line, or substantially so.
   (G)   Double-frontage lots (through lots) are not permitted, except where
lots back upon a thoroughfare, upon a body of water in separate or undivided
ownership or as specifically approved by the Plan Commission in industrial,
commercial and business subdivisions.
   (H)   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have an additional depth or width as required by the Plan Commission in order
to provide acceptable building sites.
   (I)   In all subdivisions due regard shall be given to the preservation of
natural features, and easements shall be located where they will not interfere
with the large trees, watercourses, historical and similar community assets
which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the property.
   (J)   Setback lines shall be required by the Zoning Ordinance for all street
lines. In the case of corner lots, the minimum setback line shall apply along
both the front street and the side street thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-4)
§ 155.38 LOT AND BLOCK DRAINAGE PLANS.
   Prior to approval by the Plan Commission of the final plat of subdivision,
the owner shall have prepared an overall drainage plan of the area covered by
the subdivision plat on which is indicated the proposed method of disposing of
storm water from the lots and blocks in the area. The plan shall indicate the
approximate size and location of each home to be constructed on each lot, the
foundation or first floor elevation, the elevation of the proposed pavement and
sidewalk and the elevation of the finished grade at each corner of each lot.
The plan shall also indicate the manner in which the storm water runoff is to
discharge from lot line locations and from foundation of buildings to the
proposed pavement or storm sewer system or storm drainage easements. No
downspouts from buildings shall be connected into the sewer system. Lot and
block grading plans shall be prepared substantially in accordance with F.M.A.
minimum standards as published on Data Sheet Nos. 72 and 73.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3C-5)
REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.50 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED; GUARANTEE.
   No subdivision of land shall be approved and no building permit shall be
issued upon any undeveloped or unimproved street, unless the improvements
required herein are to be provided thereon and satisfactory assurance of the
completion of the improvements is furnished to the Village Board by the
developer or applicant for the building permit.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3D-1)
§ 155.51 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS; CONSTRUCTION.
   Plans and specifications covering the construction of public improvements
shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer of the state. All
improvements shall be made under the supervision of the Village Engineer and
shall be subject to final inspection by him or her at the time of completion
and before their acceptance by the Village Board. Any changes in the details of
construction made during the course of construction must be approved by the
Village Engineer, and all maps showing these improvements must be revised
accordingly. An accurate set of “as-built” drawings showing all changes made in
the sewer, water and storm sewer plans and street improvements shall be
submitted upon completion of all construction and prior to final acceptance of
the subdivision or issuance of an occupancy permit.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3D-2)
§ 155.52 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Storm water drainage.
      (1)   An adequate system of storm water drainage designed for a ten-year
rain shall be constructed and installed consisting of storm sewers, manholes,
inlets, catch basins and other necessary facilities that will adequately drain
the entire subdivision. Open ditches shall be avoided if possible. The storm
water drainage system shall be separate and independent of the sanitary sewer
system.
      (2)   All street pavements in the subdivision shall be provided with
drainage inlets discharging directly into a storm sewer system which shall
conduct the storm sewer to an established watercourse or outfall sewer. Inlets
shall be placed in gutter lines of pavements at all low points at street
intersections except when at the high point and at intervals necessary to
assure drainage traveling not more than 400 feet in the gutter line where the
minimum street grade is used.
      (3)   (a)   Design of storm sewers shall be based on a flow computed on
the basis of the rational formula:
Q equals C I A, where:
   —“Q” is storm water runoff in cubic feet per second from the drainage area.
   —“C” is a coefficient representing the ration of runoff to rainfall. “C”
shall not be less than 0.45 in short systems for the average residential area.
   —“I” is the intensity of rainfall in inches per hour for a duration equal to
the time of concentration. The value of “I” will depend on the rainfall
intensity curve for the Northeast Illinois Area in a ten-year frequency.
   —“A” is the drainage area in acres.
         (b)   Provisions must be made in the design of the storm sewer for the
runoff which will come on the subject land from tributary lands through natural
watercourses. In calculating the runoff from tributary lands, consideration
shall be given to the character of the developed land in determining the “C”
factor. For undeveloped land the “C” factor shall be no less than 0.35.
      (4)   All storm sewers and connection pipes between inlets, catch basins
and storm sewers which are constructed beneath existing or proposed paving
improvements shall be backfilled in lifts with “stone screening” or “trench
backfill”, as defined in the state standard specifications. Reinforced R.G.P.
pipe shall be used under all pavements. Inlet leads shall be a minimum of 12
inches in diameter.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   A complete system of sanitary sewer lines, including sewer stub
terminals at the property lines for each lot, shall be constructed throughout
the entire subdivision, with connections to the sewer system serving the
village.
      (2)   All sanitary sewers shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago. The
maximum allowable infiltration shall be 500 gal/in./mi/day. The maximum
allowable manhole spacing shall be 330 feet.
      (3)   Where lots cannot, economically or for other reasons, be connected
with the public sewerage system, provisions must be made for sanitary sewerage
facilities approved by the Village Engineer and the Plan Commission.
      (4)   The design of sanitary sewer system within a subdivision shall
anticipate and provide capacity for all other sanitary sewerage from adjacent
lands. The designs shall provide adequate capacity for receiving the sewerage
form these area on a basis of the ultimate development of the areas.
      (5)   All trunk sewers and sewers serving off-site areas shall be in
accordance with the Village Master Plan.
   (C)   Water supply.
      (1)   All subdivisions within the corporate limits of the village shall
be served by an interconnected water distribution system serving all lots with
water. This system shall become a part of the village water distribution
system. The design of the system shall be in accordance with the requirements
of the State Environmental Protection Agency Bureau of Public Water Supply.
Construction shall be in accordance with the standard specifications for water
and sewer main construction, adopted 8-1-1967.
      (2)   All lots shall be serviced with an individual water service to the
property lines.
      (3)   All transmission mains and main distribution lines shall be cast
iron, in accordance with the Village Master Plan. The system shall be complete
with valves and fire hydrants. Maximum hydrant spacing shall be 400 feet.
      (4)   Where the water supply is not provided in subdivisions with lots
with one acre or more in area outside the corporate limits of the village,
conclusive evidence shall be presented by the subdivider, on the basis of
suitable tests and surveys, that an adequate underground water supply is
readily available for service to individual lots. Evidence shall be submitted
that the systems are designed in a manner that each lot may be in the future
served by the village water supply system. The location of the individual wells
shall be established in accordance with the requirements of the county and the
County Health Department. If, after private water supply systems shall be
utilized in any subdivisions public water system is installed so that the same
is available to the subdivision and the land therein, it shall thereafter be
unlawful to utilize private water supply systems, and all properties utilizing
private systems shall discontinue their use and make connection to the public
water supply system.
   (D)   Extension of sanitary sewers and water supply installations. The
sanitary sewers (required to be installed pursuant to division (B) above) and
the water supply (required to be installed pursuant to division (C) above)
shall be extended and constructed in, upon, through and along the entire
subject property frontage to the next adjoining common property line in order
to assure access and extension of the sanitary sewers and water supply, at any
future date, by neighboring property owners and the plans, specifications and
designs required pursuant to the village code shall indicate the extension
required, plus required valves, manholes and/or hydrants prior to the issuance
of any building permit.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3D-3) (Ord. 853, passed 5-21-1981)
§ 155.53 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   All streets within the subdivision or development projects shall be improved
with a durable, hard-surfaced roadway. All pavement shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the State Department of Public Works and
Buildings, Division of Highways, Manual of Design, including all supplements,
and Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, adopted 7-1-1976.
   (A)   Pavement design. The developer shall use the following minimum
thicknesses for various pavement types and street classifications.
      (1)   Minor streets.
         (a)   Eight-inch aggregate base course type B (grade eight crushed
stone), one and one-half inch bituminous concrete binder Class 1 and one-inch
bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (b)   Six-inch pozzolanic base course Type A, one and one-half inch
bituminous concrete binder (wearing surface during construction) and one-inch
bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (c)   Six-inch bituminous concrete dense graded base course Class 1
and one and one-half inch bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (d)   Six-inch portland cement concrete pavement with granular
subbase.
      (2)   Secondary streets.
         (a)   Eleven-inch aggregate base course Type B (grade eight crushed
stone), one and one-half inch bituminous concrete binder Class 1 and one and
one-half inch bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (b)   Six-inch pozzolanic base course Type A, one and one-half inch
bituminous concrete binder (wearing surface during construction) and one-inch
bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (c)   Seven-inch bituminous concrete dense graded base course Class 1
and one and one-half inch bituminous concrete surface course Class 1; and
         (d)   Six-inch portland cement concrete pavement with granular
subbase.
      (3)   Major streets.
         (a)   Fifteen-inch aggregate base course Type B (grade eight crushed
stone), two-inch bituminous concrete binder Class 1 and one and one-half inch
bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (b)   Eight-inch pozzolanic base course Type A, one and one-half inch
bituminous concrete binder, (wearing surface during construction) and one-inch
bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (c)   Nine-inch bituminous concrete dense graded base course Class 1
and one and one-half inch bituminous concrete surface course Class 1; and
         (d)   Seven-inch portland cement concrete pavement with granular
subbase.
      (4)   Commercial and industrial streets.
         (a)   Fifteen-inch aggregate base course Type B (grade eight crushed
stone), two-inch bituminous concrete binder Class 1 and one and one-half inch
bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (b)   Eight-inch pozzolanic base course Type A, one and one-half inch
bituminous concrete binder (wearing surface during construction) and one-inch
bituminous concrete surface course Class 1;
         (c)   Nine-inch bituminous concrete dense graded base course Class 1
and one and one-half inch bituminous concrete surface course Class 1; and
         (d)   Seven-inch portland cement concrete pavement with granular
subbase.
   (B)   Driveways. All residential lots less than one acre shall have a paved
driveway between the street and sidewalk or property line. The drives shall be
constructed in accordance with the State Standard Specifications and the
Village Minimum Standard Construction Detail Sheet. Drives shall extend to the
garage or to a point adequate to provide acceptable off-street parking.
   (C)   Street lights.
      (1)   All subdivisions shall be adequately lighted with street lights or
by a combination of individual gas lights and street lights. Street lights
shall be constructed as shown on the Village Minimum Standard Construction
Detail Sheet.
      (2)   All poles shall be aluminum mast arms.
      (3)   All electrical cables shall be buried.
      (4)   The system shall be complete with automatic photoelectric control
system.
   (D)   Street signs. Appropriate street name signs shall be erected at each
street intersection within the subdivision. Street signs shall be in accordance
with the Village Minimum Standard Construction Detail Sheet.
   (E)   Trees and landscaping.
      (1)   All parkways within the dedicated street areas or public areas
shall be graded and covered with a minimum of four inches of topsoil and
seeded.
      (2)   Parkway trees shall be planted along all streets where trees do not
exist. Trees shall be planted every 50 feet or one per lot with two minimum on
corner lots and a minimum of 25 feet from the corner. Trees shall be a minimum
of two inches measured 12 inches above the ground.
      (3)   The following trees are acceptable to the village for the planting:
         (a)   Red or Pin Oak;
         (b)   Hard Maple;
         (c)   American or European Linden;
         (d)   Sycamore;
         (e)   Thornless Honey;
         (f)   Locust;
         (g)   Colunar Maple; and
         (h)   Hackberry American Ash.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3D-4) (Ord. 682, passed 2-16-1978)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever sells any lot or block or portion thereof within the village
or contiguous unincorporated territory before the appropriate plan or plat has
been approved by the Village Plan Commission in accordance with requirements of
these regulations, as per §
155.02, and recorded as so approved in the office of the appropriate County
Recorder is subject to a fine of $25 for each lot or block or portion thereof
so disposed of, offered for sale or leased. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3A-2)
   (C)   For each and every violation of §
155.03 by any recorder or his or her deputy or employee, the recorder shall pay
to the county the sum of $200 to be recovered in any court of competent
jurisdiction, in the name of the village, for the use of the village, in any
action of debt, with costs of suit.
(Prior Code, § 9C-3A-3)
CHAPTER 156: PLANS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Plans adopted
Official Plan
   
156.15   Plan adopted
   
156.16   Interpretation and application of plan
   
156.17   Jurisdiction of Plan Commission
   
156.18   Division of land; maps and plats
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSPECTOR. The inspector appointed by the Village Board to perform the
duties as are herein enumerated.
   OFFICIAL PLAN. The Official Plan of the Village.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the Village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9C-1-1)
§ 156.02 PLANS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan, the Land Use Plan, the Street System Plan and
the Community Facilities Plan, as represented by, depicted upon and set forth
in the plan documents on file in the office of the Village Clerk and as
approved on 12-12-1988, by the Plan Commission, being expressly incorporated by
reference herein, shall be the village’s:
      (1)   Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Land Use Plan;
      (3)   Street Systems Plan; and
      (4)   Community Facilities Plan.
   (B)   The documents, and the contents thereof, will be enactments and
complements to the applicable provisions of the Official Plan of the village
for the purpose of effectuating the recommendations, uses, principles and
standards, benefits and long-range components of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   The report and recommendations of the Plan Commission are accepted,
approved and made a part of this section by reference.
(Prior Code, § 9C-2-1) (Ord. 1098, passed 12-15-1988)
OFFICIAL PLAN
§ 156.15 PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Comprehensive Plan of public improvements looking to the present and
future development of the village, which Plan has been prepared and recommended
to the Village Board by the Plan Commission, is hereby adopted and made the
Official Plan of the village. The Official Plan, as hereby adopted, consists of
the written recommendation in reference to streets, alleys, easements and
public grounds as made by the Plan Commission and as incorporated herein; each
and every map, chart and exhibit which is included in the recommendations of
the Plan Commission, together with all notations, references and other matters
shown thereon shall be as much a part of this ordinance as if the notations,
references and other matters set forth by the maps were fully described herein.
Specifically, the Official Plan shall include:
   (A)   Map titled “Official Street and Zoning District Map”, Village of
Crestwood, Cook County, Illinois;
   (B)   Subdivision regulations, set forth in Chapter 155 to regulate and
control the future physical development of the village; and
   (C)   The zoning regulations and maps as adopted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals and the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 9C-2A-1)
§ 156.16 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PLAN.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Plan, the provisions
shall, in every instance, be held to the minimum reasonable requirement adopted
for the promotion of public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 9C-2A-2)
§ 156.17 JURISDICTION OF PLAN COMMISSION.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Chairperson of the Plan
Commission to enforce the requirements of the Official Plan of the village. The
Chairperson (enforcing officer) may call upon any other department or official
of the village to furnish him or her with the information or assistance as he
or she may deem necessary. It shall be the duty of all law enforcement
officers, officers of the Plan Commission and whatever other village official
appointed or elected, to observe and report to the Chairperson any violation of
the requirements of the Official Plan.
   (B)   Changes and amendments. The Plan Commission may, from time to time,
prepare and recommend to the Village Board changes in the Official Plan as may
be deemed necessary by the Village Board or by the Plan Commission. The changes
shall become part of the Official Plan after their approval by the Plan
Commission and their adoption by the Village Board as amendments to the Plan.
Recommendations for changes or amendments by the Plan Commission to the Village
Board shall be made only after a public hearing is held by the Plan Commission
concerning these changes or amendments.
   (C)   Variations.
      (1)   The Plan Commission may recommend that the Village Board grant
certain variations from the requirements of the Official Plan in specific cases
which do not affect the general plan or spirit thereof. All recommendations
shall be communicated to the Village Board, in writing, with the reasons
therefor before the final approval of the plan by that body.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may recommend that the Village Board grant
certain variations from requirements of the Official Plan in specific cases
which do affect the general plan or spirit thereof; providing a public hearing
is held concerning these changes and that the members of the Plan Commission
agree by five concurring votes.
      (3)   Notice of public hearing shall be given, indicating the time and
place of the hearing, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the
hearing by publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or more newspapers
having a general circulation in the village.
(Prior Code, § 9C-2A-3)
§ 156.18 DIVISION OF LAND; MAPS AND PLATS.
   After the effective date hereof, no subdivision, whether by plat metes and
bounds, or other division by the County Assessor or County Clerk affecting land
within the corporate limits of the village or in contiguous unincorporated
territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half miles from the
limits, shall be legal nor shall the subdivision or division, however made, be
entitled to record nor shall it be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon
shall have been drawn in the form of a plat, based upon the survey made by a
registered state land surveyor, which plat shall provide for streets, alleys
and public grounds in conformity with their requirements applicable thereto in
the Official Plan of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9C-2A-4)
CHAPTER 157: STORM WATER PIPES AND STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Purpose and intent
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Applicability
   
157.04   Responsibility for administration
   
157.05   Ultimate responsibility
Use Regulations; Discharges
   
157.20   Discharge prohibitions
   
157.21   Suspension of MS4 access
   
157.22   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
157.23   Monitoring of discharges
   
157.24   Water pollutants; best management practices
   
157.25   Watercourse protection
   
157.26   Notification of spills
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.40   Enforcement generally
   
157.41   Appeal of notice of violation
   
157.42   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
157.43   Cost of abatement of violation
   
157.44   Injunctive relief
   
157.45   Compensatory action
   
157.46   Violations deemed a public nuisance
 
   
157.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
   Erosion and Sediment Control; Grading, see
Chapter 158
   Water and Sewers, see
Chapter 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the village through the regulation of non-
storm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VILLAGE SERVICES DIRECTOR. Employees or designees of the Mayor of the
municipal agency designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm
water, receiving waters or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal “Water Pollution Control Act” (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of five acres
or more. The activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
157.20.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system, including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain
system, and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether the drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by the Village Services Director; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by the Village Services Director.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits, as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26 (b)(14).
   MS4. The municipal separate storm sewer system.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal chloriform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from the
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
the Village Services Director.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Village Services Director shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
Village Services Director may be delegated in writing by the Director of the
Village Services Director to persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.05 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
USE REGULATIONS; DISCHARGES
§ 157.20 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including, but not
limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited, except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities and any other water source not containing pollutants;
and/or
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the Village Services Director
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the Village Services Director prior to the time of the test.
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency; provided that, the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.21 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
Village Services Director may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when the suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the Village Services Director may take
the steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have his or her MS4 access terminated if the termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The Village Services Director will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
Village Services Director for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
Village Services Director.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.22 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of the permit. Proof of
compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the Village
Services Director prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.23 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The Village Services Director shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the Village Services
Director.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Village Services Director ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional
duties, as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The Village Services Director shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility devices as are necessary in the opinion of the Village
Services Director to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s storm
water discharge.
      (4)   Village Services Director has the right to require the discharger
to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to
measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Village Services Director and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing the access shall be borne by the
operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Village Services Director
access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit
and of this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES
permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an
offense if the person denies the Village Services Director reasonable access to
the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the Village Services Director has been refused access to any
part of the premises from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this
chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the Village Services Director may
seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.24 WATER POLLUTANTS; BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   Village Services Director will adopt requirements identifying best
management practices for any activity, operation or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain
system, or waters of the United States. The owner or operator of a commercial
or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at the person’s expense, additional structural
and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated
with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance
with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.25 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or the
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that the structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.26 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system or water of the United
States, the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment and cleanup of the release. In the event of a release of hazardous
materials, the person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of
the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
non-hazardous materials, the person shall notify the Village Services Director
in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the Village Services Director within three business
days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates
from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of the
establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. The records shall be retained for
at least three years.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.40 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Services Director finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
Village Services Director may order compliance by written notice of violation
to the responsible person. The notice may require without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   Violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which the remediation or
restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise that, should the
violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work
will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.41 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the Village Services Director. The notice of appeal must be received within
seven days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the appropriate authority or his or her designee shall take place within
15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the
municipal authority or his or her designee shall be final.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.42 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation or, in the event of an appeal, within seven
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
Village Services Director, then representatives of the Village Services
Director shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to
take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the
property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.43 COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within seven days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within seven days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reason of the violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the judgement rate of
interest, then in effect in the state, shall be assessed on the balance
beginning on the seventh day following discovery of the violation.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.44 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the Village Services
Director may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.45 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the Village Services Director may impose upon a violator,
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup and the like.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.46 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of the nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this
chapter shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the
law and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of $500 per violation per day
and/or any other punishment permitted by law.
      (2)   The Village Services Director may recover all attorneys’ fees court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the Village Services Director to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 1972, passed 11-20-2008)
CHAPTER 158: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL; GRADING
Section
   
158.01   Introduction and purpose
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Permits
   
158.04   Erosion and sediment control plan
   
158.05   Design requirements
   
158.06   Inspection
   
158.07   Enforcement
 
   
158.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 158.01 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   During the construction process, soil is the most vulnerable to
erosion by wind and water. This eroded soil endangers water resources by
reducing water quality, and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish
and other desirable species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers and
ditches and the dredging of lakes. In addition, clearing grading during
construction causes the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and
aquatic habitat, and to provide a healthy living environment for citizens of
the village.
   (B)   As a result, the purpose of this local regulation is to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment and promote the
public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction,
use and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or
breaks the topsoil or results in the movement of earth on land in the village.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED CONTRACTOR. An individual who has received training and is
licensed, to the extent required by law, to inspect and maintain erosion and
sediment control practices.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A set of plans prepared by or under the
direction of a licensed professional engineer which indicates the specific
measures and sequencing to be used controlling sediment and erosion on a
development site before, during and after construction.
   EROSION CONTROL. Measures that prevent erosion.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site
either by filtering sediment laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or
basin.
   PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase before the clearing of the next.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SITE. A parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the municipality for which the
construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff and grading.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land-disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading and filling;
installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements, footings, piers
or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation of accessory
buildings such as garages.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams and bodies of water which are delineated by the village.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drain.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 158.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall be granted a site development permit for land-
disturbing activity which would require the uncovering of one acre without the
approval of an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan by the Village Engineer.
   (B)   No site development permit is required for the following activities:
      (1)   Any emergency activity which is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property or natural resources; and
      (2)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use.
   (C)   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the site, and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant,
together with the name of the applicant’s principal contact at the firm.
   (D)   Each application shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and that a certified
contractor shall be on site on all days where construction or grading activity
takes place.
   (E)   (1)   The Village Engineer will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
local regulation. Within 30 days after receiving an application, the Village
Engineer shall, in writing:
         (a)   Approve the permit application;
         (b)   Approve the permit application subject to reasonable conditions
as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this regulation,
and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         (c)   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      (2)   The Village Engineer shall endeavor to complete review of all
applications within 30 days of a fully completed submission with all pertinent
information. The failure to the Village Engineer of the village to approve or
disapprove the application shall not authorized any applicant to proceed.
Pending preparation and approval of a revised plan, development activities
shall be allowed to proceed in accordance with conditions established by the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.04 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   The Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall include:
      (1)   A natural resources map identifying soils, forest cover and
resources protected under other chapters of the Code;
      (2)   A sequence of construction of the development site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading, construction of utilities,
infrastructure and buildings, and final grading and landscaping. Sequencing
shall identify the expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated
duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of clearing,
installation of temporary erosion and sediment measures and establishment of
permanent vegetation;
      (3)   All erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
objectives of this local regulation throughout all phases of construction and
permanently, after completion of development of the site. Depending upon the
complexity of the project, the drafting of intermediate plans may be required
at the close of each season;
      (4)   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of be of seedbed preparation,
expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer application, and
kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent vegetative
control measures; and
      (5)   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance.
   (B)   Modifications to the plan.
      (1)   Major amendments of the erosion and sediment control plan shall be
submitted to the Village Engineer and shall be processed and approved, or
disapproved, in the same manner as the original plans.
      (2)   Field modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the
Village Engineer by written authorization to the permittee.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.05 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Grading, erosion control practices, sediment control practices, and waterway
crossings shall meet the design criteria set forth in the most recent version
of the Erosion and Sediment Control Manual, and shall be adequate to prevent
transportation of sediment from the site to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer.
   (A)   Clearing and grading.
      (1)   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and
wetlands, shall not be permitted, except when in compliance all other chapters
of this code.
      (2)   Clearing techniques that retain natural vegetation and retain
natural drainage patterns as described in the Erosion and Sediment Control
Manual, shall be used to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
      (3)   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing greater than 30
acres, with the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as
approved by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control
devices, shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed
and have been stabilized.
      (5)   Cut and fill slopes shall be no greater than two to one, except as
approved by the Village Engineer to meet other community or environmental
objectives.
   (B)   Erosion control.
      (1)   Soil must be stabilized within five days of clearing or inactivity
in construction.
      (2)   If vegetative erosion control methods, such as seeding, have not
become established within two weeks, the Village Engineer may require that the
site be reseeded, or that a non-vegetative option be employed. Numerical
standards regarding the time to stabilization will vary. In particular, the
time to establish seeding will depend on the climate.
      (3)   On steep slopes or in drainage ways, special techniques that meet
the design criteria outlined in the Erosion and Sediment Control Manual shall
be used to ensure stabilization.
      (4)   At the close of the construction season, the entire site must be
stabilized, using a heavy mulch layer or another method that does not require
germination to control erosion.
      (5)   Techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of dust or
sediment from the site. Dust control is most important in arid regions of the
country.
      (6)   Techniques that divert upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
employed.
   (C)   Sediment controls.
      (1)   Sediment controls shall be provided in the form of settling basins
or sediment traps or tanks and perimeter controls.
      (2)   Where possible, settling basins shall be designed in a manner that
allows adaptation to provide long-term storm water management.
      (3)   Adjacent properties shall be protected by the use of a vegetated
buffer strip, in combination with perimeter controls.
   (D)   Waterways and watercourses.
      (1)   When a wet watercourse must be crossed regularly during
construction, a temporary stream crossing shall be provided and an approval
obtained from all necessary county and state agencies having authority over the
crossing.
      (2)   When in channel work is conducted, the channel shall be stabilized
before, during and after work.
      (3)   All on-site storm water conveyance channels shall he designed
according to the criteria outlined in the Erosion and Sediment Control Manual.
      (4)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion must be provided at the
outlets of all pipes and paved channels.
   (E)   Construction site access.
      (1)   A temporary access road shall be provided at all sites.
      (2)   Other measures may be required at the discretion of the Village
Engineer in order to ensure that sediment is not tracked onto public streets by
construction vehicles, or washed into storm drains.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 158.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Village Services Director, or designated agent, shall make
inspections as hereinafter required and shall either approve that portion of
the work completed or shall notify the permitee wherein the work fails to
comply with the erosion and sediment control plan as approved. Plans for
grading, stripping, excavating and filling work bearing the stamp of approval
of the Village Engineer shall be maintained at the site during the progress of
the work. In order to obtain inspections, the permitee shall notify the Village
Engineer at least two working days before the following:
      (1)   Start of construction;
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control measures are in place and stabilized;
      (3)   Site clearing has been completed;
      (4)   Rough grading has been completed;
      (5)   Final grading has been completed;
      (6)   Close of the construction season; and
      (7)   Final landscaping.
   (B)   The permitee or his or her agent shall make regular inspections of all
control measures in accordance with the inspection schedule outlined on the
approved erosion and sediment control plan(s). The purpose of the inspections
will be to determine the overall effectiveness of the control plan, and the
need for additional control measures. All inspections shall be documented in
written form and submitted to the Village Engineer at the time interval
specified in the approved permit.
   (C)   The Village Engineer or Village Services Director, or their designated
agent, shall enter the property of the applicant as deemed necessary to make
regular inspections to ensure the validity of the reports filed under division
(B) above.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 158.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the event that any person holding a site development permit
pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the permit, or implements site
development in a manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare
or safety or persons residing or working in the neighborhood or development
site so as to be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to
property or improvements in the neighborhood, the Mayor, upon the advice of the
Village Engineer may suspend or revoke the site development permit.
   (B)   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any
grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in
violation of any terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted, shall
constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any violation, the person,
partnership or corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500
for each offense. In addition to any other penalty authorized by this section,
any person, partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be required to bear the expense of the
restoration.
(Ord. 1971, passed 11-20-2008)
CHAPTER 159: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
159.001   Title
   
159.002   Interpretation and purpose
   
159.003   Scope of regulations
   
159.004   Rules of word construction; definitions
Zoning Districts and Maps
   
159.015   Districts established and defined
   
159.016   Map of zoning districts
   
159.017   Use regulations generally
R-1 Single-Family Residential Districts
   
159.030   Regulations and restrictions
   
159.031   Principal uses permitted
   
159.032   Conditional uses
   
159.033   Site and structural requirements
R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District
   
159.045   Regulations and restrictions
   
159.046   Uses permitted
   
159.047   Site and structure requirements
Commercial Districts
   
159.060   Regulations and restrictions
   
159.061   Purpose
   
159.062   Permitted uses
   
159.063   Special uses
   
159.064   Conditions of use
   
159.065   Site and structure requirements
   
159.066   Additional restrictions
   
159.067   Off-track wagering facility
Light Industry District
   
159.080   Regulations and restrictions
   
159.081   Principal uses permitted
   
159.082   Prohibited uses
   
159.083   Site and structure requirements
   
159.084   Additional restrictions
   
159.085   Special uses
Heavy Industry District
   
159.095   Regulations and restrictions
   
159.096   Uses permitted
   
159.097   Prohibited uses
   
159.098   Site and structure requirements
   
159.099   Additional restrictions
Industrial Overlay District One
   
159.100   Establishment
   
159.101   Regulations and restrictions
   
159.102   Principal uses permitted
   
159.103   Prohibited uses
   
159.104   Site and structure requirements
   
159.105   Additional restrictions
Supplementary Provisions
   
159.125   Fences and hedges
   
159.126   Trailer, camper and boat parking restrictions
   
159.127   Fire resistance in building constructions
   
159.128   Signs
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
159.140   General parking requirements
   
159.141   Schedule of parking requirements
   
159.142   Off-street loading requirements
Exceptions Generally
   
159.155   Managing land, buildings and uses
   
159.156   Building height
   
159.157   Area exceptions
   
159.158   Public utility equipment
Special Uses
   
159.170   Purpose
   
159.171   Authority; special uses enumerated
   
159.172   Procedure
   
159.173   Deposit required
   
159.174   Termination of special use
   
159.175   Special use conditions and fees
Community Shopping Center Development
   
159.190   Plan
Administration and Enforcement
   
159.210   Enforcement
   
159.211   Application for building permit; plat required
   
159.212   Occupancy certificates
   
159.213   Appeals
   
159.214   Variations
   
159.215   Amendments
   
159.216   Prevention of violations
 
   
159.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “The Zoning Ordinance and Official Plan of
the Village of Crestwood, Illinois”.
(Prior Code, § 9A-1-1)
§ 159.002 INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Minimum requirements; purpose. The provisions of this chapter shall be
held to be minimum requirements adopted for promotion of a Comprehensive Plan
and designed:
      (1)   To lessen congestion in the streets;
      (2)   To secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
      (3)   To provide adequate light and air;
      (4)   To prevent the overcrowding of land;
      (5)   To avoid undue concentration of population;
      (6)   To facilitate the adequate provisions of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and public requirements; and
      (7)   To promote the public interest, health, comfort, convenience and
safety for general welfare.
   (B)   Relationship with other laws; effect on existing agreements. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this chapter or which shall be adopted or issued,
pursuant to law, relating to the use of buildings or premises, nor is it
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements,
covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that, where
this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or
premises or upon height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than are
imposed or required by the ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or by
easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 9A-1-2)
§ 159.003 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as provided by this chapter and except after obtaining written
permission from the enforcing officer, it shall be unlawful within the limits
of the village:
   (A)   To establish any use of a building, structure or land, either by
itself or in addition to another use;
   (B)   To expand, change or re-establish any nonconforming use;
   (C)   To erect a new building or structure or part thereof;
   (D)   To rebuild, structurally alter, add to or relocate any building or
structure or part thereof;
   (E)   To reduce the open space of flat area smaller than prescribed by this
chapter, nor shall the density of population be increased in any manner except
in conformity with the area regulations herein established for the district in
which the building is located; and
   (F)   To provide or connect into water supply or sewerage disposal
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9A-1-3)
§ 159.004 RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural and words in the plural include the singular; the
word “shall” is mandatory and not permissive; the word “person” includes firm,
association, trust, organization, partnership, company or corporation as well
as individual.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDINGS. A subordinate building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the main building or to the use of the land.
      ADDITION. An extension or increase in usable floor area or height of a
building or structure, including excavation within a structure.
      ADJACENT. Nearby, but not necessarily touching.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare not less than 16 feet wide nor more than 20
feet wide.
      ALTERATIONS. Applied to a building or structure, means a change or re-
arrangement in the structure parts or in the exit facilities.
      APARTMENT. A suite of rooms, with cooking facilities and private bath and
toilet facilities, used for living purposes. Each apartment shall be considered
a dwelling unit.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. A building containing more than one dwelling unit.
      ATTIC. A space between the roof and the next lower ceiling, having an
average clear height of less than seven feet, unfinished and not intended for
use as living quarters.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place of business having pumps and/or
storage tanks from which liquid fuel and/or lubricants are dispensed at retail
directly into the motor vehicle. Sales and installations of auto accessories,
washing, polishing, inspections and cleaning may be carried on incidental to
the sale of the fuel and lubricants.
      BASEMENT. A story, partly underground, which has not more than one-half
its height measured from finished ceiling above the average grade of the
adjoining ground. (A BASEMENT shall not be used as total living quarters for a
family and shall not be included as a story for purpose of height
measurements.)
      BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof upon which a sign or
advertisement used as any outdoor display for the purpose of making anything
known is displayed. This definition does not include any bulletin boards used
to display official court or public office notices.
      BLOCK. The property abutting on one side of a street between the two
nearest intersecting streets or other natural barriers.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling in which three, four or five rooms are
occupied as guest rooms and in which food may be served to the occupants
thereof. Any dwelling in which more than five rooms are occupied as guest rooms
shall be deemed to be a hotel. A BOARDING HOUSE shall not include institutions
for persons requiring physical or mental care by reasons of age, infirmity or
disease.
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls.
      BUILDING AREA. The total area, taken on a horizontal plane at the maximum
projected area of the principal buildings and all accessory buildings,
exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the natural grade
level to the highest level of the roof surface of flat roofs, to the deck line
of measured roofs or the average height between eaves and edge for gable,
gambrel and hip roofs. The building height limitations of this chapter shall
not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water towers,
chimneys, flues, vents, flagpoles, radio towers, TV towers, public conservation
towers or airway beacons nor to any bulkhead, elevator, water tank or similar
structure extending above the roof and occupying an aggregate area of not
greater than 25% of the horizontal projected roof area.
      BUILDING LINE. A building line corresponds to the rear boundary of the
front yard.
      BUILDING, MAIN BUSINESS. A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the lot on which it is situated.
      BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, wares or merchandise; the maintenance or operation of offices or
recreational or amusement enterprises operated for profit.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A passenger car, truck or bus designed and operated
for the purpose of monetary gain.
      CONTIGUOUS. In contact with, touching.
      CORNER LOT. See LOT AREA.
      COURT. Any space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a building or
group of buildings and which is unobstructed and open to the sky above the
floor level of any room having a window or door opening on such court. The
width of a court shall be its horizontal dimension.
      DEPTH OF REAR YARD. The average horizontal distance between the rear line
of the main building and the center line of the alley or easement; otherwise,
the rear of lot line.
      DISTRICT. A portion of the village within which certain regulations and
requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this
chapter; generally referred to as a ZONING DISTRICT.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. See RESTAURANT.
      DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open air theater designed for viewing by the
audience from motor vehicles.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. Any building containing one dwelling unit.
      DWELLING UNIT FAMILY. A group of rooms or a room occupied or a room
intended for human occupancy.
      FAMILY. A group of one or more persons occupying a building and living
and cooking in a single dwelling unit. No unrelated group living and cooking in
a single dwelling unit shall consist of more than six persons, as distinguished
from a group occupying a boarding house or hotel.
      FRONTAGE. All property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets or natural barriers.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed for occupancy by the
passenger motor vehicles of the family residing on the same lot. This may
include commercial vehicles under one ton capacity. Noncommercial vehicles of
persons not resident on the lot may occupy up to one-half the capacity of the
garage.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building, other than that herein defined as a private
garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles or where any vehicles
are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
      GRADE, STREET. The elevation of the center of a street in front of the
center of a building, as established by the Village Engineer.
      GUEST ROOM. A room occupied for hire by one or more persons in which no
cooking facilities are provided.
      HOME OCCUPANCY. 
         (a)   An occupation or a profession conducted for monetary gain which:
            1.   Is customarily carried on within a dwelling unit;
            2.   Is carried on by a member or members of the family residing in
the dwelling unit;
            3.   Is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
unit for residential purposes; and
            4.   Conforms to the following additional conditions:
               a.   The occupations or professions shall be carried on wholly
within the principal building;
               b.   Not more than one resident on the premises, outside of the
family, shall be employed in a home occupation;
               c.   There shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of
materials and no other exterior indication of the home occupancy or variation
from the residential character of the principal building;
               d.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors,
radiations, heat or glare shall be produced; and
               e.   The activity shall be limited to the hours between 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (b)   A home occupation shall not include, among others, the
following: commercial stables, veterinary hospitals, poultry farms, kennels and
restaurants.
      HOSPITALS. A place for the treatment or care of human ailments and,
unless otherwise specified, includes a sanitarium, clinic, maternity home, rest
home, home for the aged and convalescent home.
      HOTEL. A building other than a boarding house or a motel, as defined
herein, which building contains more than five guest rooms.
      JUNK YARD. The use of a lot, or portion thereof, for the storage, keeping
or abandonment of junk, dismantled automobiles or other vehicles or machinery
or parts thereof including scrap metals, rags or other scrap materials.
      LAUNDRY, SELF-SERVICE. A building in which washing machines and/or dryers
are provided on a rental basis for use by individuals doing their own laundry.
      LIVING FLOOR AREA. The horizontal projected area of a residential
dwelling as measured by the exterior dimensions of the building, exclusive of
garages, carports, breezeways and porches.
      LOADING SPACE LOT. An off-street space on the same lot as a building and
its accessory building, if any; the open parking spaces required by this
chapter and having adequate access to a public street.
      LOT. A parcel of tract of land (where the boundaries and dimensions of
the parcel or tract of land are entered on the current maps of record of the
county), located within a single block, occupied by or intended for occupancy
by one principal building or principal use and having access to a street.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal projected area within the lot lines of a
lot.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the junction of and abutting on two or more
streets where the interior angle of intersection does not exceed 135 degrees. A
CORNER LOT shall be considered to be in that block in which the lot fronts.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along a line joining the midpoints of the front and rear lot lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot, as defined herein.
         (a)   FRONT (LOT LINE). The front property line of a lot shall be
determined as follows.
            1.   CORNER LOT. The front property line of a corner lot shall be
either of the two lines adjacent to the street, but not both.
            2.   INTERIOR LOT. The front property line of an interior lot shall
be the line bounding the street frontage.
            3.   THROUGH LOT. The front property line of a through lot shall be
that line which is obviously the front by reason of the prevailing custom of
the other buildings in the block. Where the property line is not obviously
evident, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine the front property line. A
lot over 200 feet deep may be considered, for the purpose of this definition,
as two lots each with its own frontage.
         (b)   REAR (LOT LINE). The rear property line of a lot is that lot
line opposite to the front property line. Where the side property lines of a
lot meet in a point, the rear property line shall be assumed to be a line not
less than ten feet in length, lying within the lot and parallel to the front
property line. In the event that the front property line is a curved line, then
the rear property line shall be a line not less than ten feet long, lying
within the lot and parallel to a line tangent to the front property line at its
midpoint.
         (c)   SIDE (LOT LINE). The side property lines of a lot are those
lines connecting the front and rear property lines of a lot.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot abutting two parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
      LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot shall be:
         (a)   If the side property lines are parallel, the distance between
these side lines, measured at the building line; or
         (b)   If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the
lot shall be the length of a line at right angles to the axis of the lot, as
measured at the building line, for the district in which the lot is located.
The axis of a lot shall be a line joining the midpoints of the front and rear
property lot lines.
      MAINTENANCE. The replacing of a part or parts of a building which have
been made unusable by ordinary wear or tear or by the weather.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings containing guest rooms or
apartments, each of which maintains a separate outside entrance and toilet
facilities, used primarily for the accommodation of automobile travelers and
providing automobile parking space on the premises.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building containing two or more dwelling units.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS. A building or structure lawfully existing at the
effective date hereof and which does not conform with the use regulations of
this chapter as they apply to the district in which the lot, building or
structure is located.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Use of a lot, building or structure lawfully existing
at the effective date hereof which does not conform with the use regulations of
this chapter as they apply to the district in which the lot, building or
structure is located.
      PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open area for the same use as a private garage.
      PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces for
five or more vehicles for compensation or otherwise.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area in the form of a rectangle, measuring
not less than nine feet in width and 20 feet in depth, and an additional 120
square feet shall be provided for each parking space for maneuvering and access
space giving access thereto for the parking of, or temporary storage of a
passenger automobile.
      PORCH, OPEN. A roof partially supported by columns which shall be no
larger than 144 square inches nor closer together than four feet on centers,
any portion of which extending into a front or side yard shall have no
inclosure by walls, screens, lattice or other material, which porch is used
solely for ingress and egress and not for occupancy as a sleeping porch or
washroom.
      PRIVATE USE. One which is restricted to the occupants of a lot or
building, together with their guests, where compensation for the use is not
received, and where no business or commercial activity is associated with the
use of building.
      PROFESSIONAL USE. The rendering of services of a professional nature by:
         (a)   Architects, engineers and surveyors who are licensed by the
State Department of Registration and Education;
         (b)   Doctors, osteopaths and dentists who are licensed by the State
Department of Registration and Education;
         (c)   Lawyers who are admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of
the state;
         (d)   Certified public accountants who are licensed by the State
Department of Registration and Education; and
         (e)   Licensed chiropractors, chiropodists, Christian Science
practitioners, optometrists and naprapaths.
      PROHIBITED USE. A use which is not specifically permitted nor analogous
to those specifically permitted.
      RESTAURANT. A food service establishment where food is served either on
the premises for consumption inside the establishment or for carrying off the
premises for consumption elsewhere.
      RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A food service establishment, with or without
interior facilities for eating, which caters to and permits the consumption of
food either in a customer’s automobile parked on the premises or in any other
designated area on the premises outside the building where the food is
prepared.
      RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment that derives more than 80%
of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or herbs and
cigars, cigarettes, pipes and other smoking devices for burning tobacco and
related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include a tobacco department or
section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment with any type
of liquor, food or restaurant license.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Same as BOARDING HOUSE.
      SCHOOL. A place of general instruction including college but not
including business colleges, nursery schools, dancing schools, riding academies
or specialized trade or vocational schools.
      SERVICE STATION. Same as AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      SIGN. Any words, numbers, figures, devices or trademarks by which
anything is made known, other than billboards or house numbers, such as are
used to identify any individual, firm, profession or business and are visible
to the general public.
         (a)   AREA OF A SIGN. The area in square feet of the smallest
geometric or combination of regular geometric figures, which figure or figures
enclose both the copy and facing of the sign.
         (b)   ELECTRIC SIGN. A sign served or energized with electric current
for the purpose of illumination or for any other purpose.
      SLEEPING ROOM. A room, other than a guest room, in which no cooking
facilities are provided.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the next floor above it or if there is no floor above
it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. A basement,
the ceiling of which is less than four feet six inches above the average grade
level, shall not be considered a story. A mezzanine floor shall be considered a
STORY if it exceeds 40% of the area of the floor next below it.
      STORY-HALF. A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which, on at least two opposite walls, are not more than four feet above the
finished floor of the story.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare or land dedicated for such purpose which
affords the principal means of pedestrian and vehicular access to abutting
property.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof, excepting alterations as
may be required for the safety of the building.
      USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building or structure
thereto is designed, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or
maintained, let or leased.
      USED CAR SALES BUSINESS. A motor vehicle sales business engaged in
buying, selling or exchanging used motor vehicles at an established place of
business for such purpose.
      YARD. A required space, other than a court, on any lot, unoccupied by a
structure and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided
herein, and measured as the minimum horizontal distance from a building or
structure to the property line opposite the building line.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth
of which is the horizontal distance measured along a line perpendicular to the
front lot line between the front line and the nearest part of a building
constructed or to be constructed on the lot.
      YARD, REAR. An open space (unoccupied except for accessory buildings) on
the same lot with the main building, between the rear line of the main building
and the rear line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. An open space, unoccupied, on the same lot with the main
building, between the building and the side lot line and extending from the
front yard to the rear yard.
      ZONING DISTRICT. A district identified as to permitted uses therein.
(Prior Code, § 9B-1-1) (Ord. 740, passed 6-7-1979; Ord. 741, passed 6-7-1979;
Ord. 2646, passed 5-19-2022)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 159.015 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED AND DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the village is hereby divided into use
districts as follows:
 
Commercial      Retail Sales District
Heavy Industry  Manufacturing District
Light Industry  Fabrications District
Public Property Public Property
R-1 Residential Single-Family Dwellings
R-2 Residential Multiple-Family Dwellings
 
(Prior Code, § 9B-2-1)
§ 159.016 MAP OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The locations and boundaries of the classes of districts are shown upon the
map, attached to the ordinance dated 3-18-1971, and made part hereof by
reference, being designated as “Zoning Districts, Village of Crestwood,
Illinois”, and the map and all notations, references and other matters shown
thereon shall be as much a part hereof as if the matters set forth by the map
were fully described herein.
(Prior Code, § 9B-2-2)
§ 159.017 USE REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Use regulations and use established. The use district regulations and
the uses that are permitted in the use districts are hereby established. Any
use that is not specifically permitted is hereby declared to be a prohibited
use and lawful. A use that is not permitted in any district shall not be
considered an accessory use in that district.
   (B)   Compliance with provisions.
      (1)   All new buildings and other structures shall be erected and all
existing buildings and other structures shall be altered, enlarged or moved,
and all buildings, structures, land or premises shall be used, designed or
intended to be used only in accordance with the use, height, area, yard and
open space requirements of this chapter as permitted in the district in which
the buildings, structures, land or premises are located.
      (2)   No building shall be erected nor shall any open space surrounding
any building or space otherwise required by this chapter be enclosed upon or
reduced in any manner, except in conformity to the yard, lot area, open space,
building location and off-street parking and loading regulations hereinafter
designated for the district in which the building or open space is located.
   (C)   Open space requirements.
      (1)   No yard, court or other open space provided about any building on a
lot for the purpose of complying with the provisions of these regulations shall
be considered as providing a yard, court or other open space for a building on
any other lot.
      (2)   Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its
lowest point to the sky, unobstructed; except that, architectural features, not
including vertical projections, may extend or project into a required yard not
more than three feet.
   (D)   Clear vision at intersections. For the purpose of providing
uninterrupted vision at street intersections, no structure, tree, plant or
hedge extending three feet above the adjacent street grade shall be allowed
within the area bounded by the center lines of two or more intersecting streets
and a straight line connecting the center lines of the intersecting streets at
a distance of 80 feet from the intersection of the street corner lines.
   (E)   Accessory buildings and structures.
      (1)   On a through lot, no accessory building shall be erected or altered
so as to encroach upon the front yard required for the lot at the nearest
street, nor shall the building be closer to a side lot line than that required
for a main building in that district.
      (2)   In any residential district, no accessory building shall be erected
or altered in any rear yard such as to place the foundation of the building
closer than three feet from the side lot line of a contiguous lot or so as to
place any portion of the building in any public utility easement. No accessory
building shall be erected or altered so as to place the foundation of the
building closer than six feet to the foundation of the principal building, nor
shall any principal building be altered so as to place the foundation of the
principal building closer than six feet to the foundation of an accessory
building.
      (3)   In any residential district, no accessory building, including a
private garage, shall be erected or altered in any rear yard so as to place any
portion of the building closer than five feet to the rear lot line or so as to
place any portion of the building in a public easement.
      (4)   No motor fuel pumps for dispensing gasoline or diesel fuel shall be
located closer than 12 feet to a street property line.
   (F)   Grading; removal of topsoil. No topsoil or fill material may be
removed from any lot or parcel of land within the village, except that which is
displaced by a structure or improvement nor may the topography of the land be
changed in any manner whatsoever other than that normally required for the
construction of a building or other structure, except upon submittal to and
approval by the Plan Commission of a grading plan; the plan to be submitted in
triplicate and drawn to a horizontal scale on one inch equals 25 feet with
profiles drawn to a scale of one inch equals five feet.
   (G)   Subdividing large lots. A large lot may be subdivided into small lots,
providing the smaller lots conform to the lot requirements of the district in
which the lots are situated; however, the Building Inspector shall not issue
permits for same unless a registered plat of the subdivision shall be filed
with and approved by the Village Board.
   (H)   Classification of annexed land. All territory which may hereafter be
annexed to the village shall automatically be classed as lying and being in the
R-1 Residential District, until the classifications shall have been changed by
an amendment to this chapter, as provided by law.
   (I)   Materials prohibited as fill. Materials that are prohibited for use as
fill are those materials that are detrimental to the health, safety, welfare
and future development of the community such as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Paper and paper products;
      (2)   Glass and broken glass;
      (3)   Cans and containers;
      (4)   Pieces of masonry, concrete and stones exceeding one cubic foot in
volume;
      (5)   Wood and wood products;
      (6)   Vegetation and vegetable refuse;
      (7)   Scrap building materials;
      (8)   Materials subject to decay, rot or other deteriorations; and/or
      (9)   Chemical refuse and residues.
   (J)   Requirements for block sizes, streets, alleys and/or easements and
fire hydrants. See §
159.047(A).
   (K)   Requirements for surface drainage ditches and/or sewers and flood
plain restrictions. See §
159.047(A).
(Prior Code, § 9B-2-3) (Ord. 715, passed 1-4-1979; Ord. 743, passed 6-7-1979)
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.030 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following restrictions shall apply to all R-1 Residential Districts and
shall be subject to the provision of §§
159.017 and
159.125 through 159.129,
159.140 through
159.142 and
159.155 through
159.158.
(Prior Code, § 9B-3A-1)
§ 159.031 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Customary accessory uses and buildings including private garages,
professional offices and home occupations; provided, the uses are incidental to
the principal use and do not include the conduct of any retail sales on the
premises or wholesale business or manufacturing. An accessory building shall
not include servants’ quarters, guest rooms or sleeping rooms.
   (B)   One single-family dwelling on any lot or parcel, which dwelling shall
be of a size, bulk and construction as to contain on the first floor thereof a
minimum of 1,800 square feet of living floor area if the dwelling is of the
single-floor design, or 1,800 square feet of living floor area on the first
floor if the dwelling is of the story-and-one-half or split-level design, or a
total of 1,800 square feet of living floor area if the dwelling is of the two-
story design.
   (C)   Temporary offices and/or construction sheds and uses incidental to a
construction project on approval of location, size and necessity by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees but only for the duration of the project and not
exceeding 12 months. Extension of such time limited may be renewed for six-
month periods upon a showing of necessity by the petitioner.
   (D)   Truck gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is
involved; all subject to the applicable health and sanitation ordinances of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 9B-3A-2) (Ord. 1981, passed 3-5-2009; Ord. 2380, passed 10-5-
2017)
§ 159.032 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following may also be permitted in accordance with the provision of §§
159.170 through
159.175;
   (A)   Churches and buildings usually associated with similar activities;
   (B)   Governmental and public utility buildings and facilities when
necessary for serving the surrounding territory;
   (C)   Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums and rest homes;
   (D)   Publicly-owned and operated parks, playgrounds and other recreational
uses, including eating and drinking sales and service establishments accessory
to the use of the above; provided, however, that, the accessory use facility
shall not be located closer than 100 feet to any adjacent residential property;
and
   (E)   Schools, elementary and high (public and private).
(Prior Code, § 9B-3A-3) (Ord. 742, passed 6-7-1979; Ord. 1981, passed 3-5-2009)
§ 159.033 SITE AND STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Area, lot coverage and dwelling standards.
      (1)   All lots planned and platted for development hereafter shall have a
minimum lot size of 6,600 square feet shall be provided in all such.
      (2)   No building permit or other variation shall be granted to a
property owner, tenant or other person for any property for a lot of less than
6,600 square feet in the R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
      (3)   The minimum lot area per dwelling unit not serviced by the Village
Water and Sewer Department shall be 15,000 square feet. No building with its
accessory buildings shall occupy in excess of 35% of any interior or corner
lot. Lot area is not to include street dedications.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard having a depth not less
than that established by an existing main building on the nearest lot within
100 feet. However, on a lot between two lots, each within 100 feet, which lots
have established front yards, then the minimum front yard shall be that
established by line joining the nearest corner of the main building on one lot
and the nearest front corner of the main building on the other lot. Nothing in
this division (B)(1) shall require that a front yard be more than 35 feet in
depth or to permit a front yard of less than 20 feet in depth. On a lot that is
not within 100 feet of a lot with an established front yard, the front yard
shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (2)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15% of the
depth of the lot; provided, however, that, the yard shall be a minimum of 15
feet in depth.
      (3)   Side yards. Two side yards shall be provided for each lot. The
combined width of the two side yards shall be not less than 20% of the width,
with a minimum width of five feet for either side yard.
      (4)   Corner lots. Front yard requirements shall be complied with along
both streets abutting corner lots; except that, the depth of yard abutting the
side street need not exceed 25 feet.
   (C)   Building height. No building shall be erected or altered to exceed 32
feet in height.
   (D)   Garages and other accessory buildings.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   No other accessory building, except a garage, shall be
constructed, used or maintained except as provided and conditioned as follows:
            1.   One accessory building of a size not to exceed 100 square feet
in area may be constructed, used and maintained upon a residential lot being
7,500 square feet in area or less.
            2.   One accessory building of a size not to exceed 200 square feet
in area may be constructed, used and maintained upon a residential lot
exceeding 7,500 square feet in area.
            3.   One accessory building of a size not to exceed 300 square feet
in area may be constructed, used and maintained upon a residential lot
exceeding 12,000 square feet in area.
         (b)   In addition to the one garage permitted by division (D)(2)
below, only one other accessory building (within the constructed limits stated
in division (D)(1)(a) above) shall be constructed or permitted on one
residential district lot.
         (c)   No portion of a private garage or other accessory building shall
extend beyond the established building line or violate the restrictions of §
159.004.
         (d)   No accessory building of wooden, frame construction shall be
constructed, installed, used or maintained unless there is constructed and
installed within the accessory building a concrete floor.
      (2)   Additional provisions for garages.
         (a)   Specifications for private garages. No private garage, as
defined in §
159.004, shall be constructed to exceed 600 square feet in area nor shall any
side thereof exceed 25 feet in length. Further, no door opening of any garage
shall exceed eight feet in height nor shall the overall height of any garage
exceed 12 feet even grade. No more than one two and one-half car garage shall
be constructed on one residential district lot.
         (b)   Uniformity required.
            1.   All the exterior walls, trim, decorating, cornices, gutters,
leaders, balconies, enclosures, ornamental elements, roofs or other enclosing
surfaces of garages attached to residential buildings in R-1 Residential
Districts shall be of the same type of construction and materials as the
sidewalls, roof and exterior surfaces of the existing residential building to,
in or on which the garage is attached.
            2.   All the exterior walls, trim, decorating, cornices, gutters,
leaders, balconies, enclosures, ornamental elements, roofs or other enclosing
surfaces of garages for residential buildings in R-1 Residential Zoning
Districts shall be of the same type of construction and materials as the
sidewalls, roof and exterior surfaces of the existing residential building for
which the subject garage is an accessory building, except this requirement
shall not apply to:
               a.   Any garage located entirely within the rear yard of the
subject property; or
               b.   Any garage which is situated entirely between:
                  i.   The furthermost rear part of the existing residential
building (including the extension of the plane of the furthermost rear part to
the side property lines); and
                  ii.   The rear property line; however, no part of the garage
shall be within six feet of any part of the described existing residential
building for which the subject garage is an accessory building.
   (E)   First story.
      (1)   All exterior walls of the first story, as defined in §
159.004, of any residence and attached garage located in an R-1 Single-Family
Residential Zoning District shall be constructed with a face brick exterior.
      (2)   No first story exterior walls of any building located in an R-
1 Single-Family Residential Zoning District shall be constructed of blocks,
stucco, synthetic brick veneer, metal or wood, or any combination thereof.
   (F)   Rain gutters and drains. It shall be unlawful to construct, erect,
build or maintain any building for residential occupancy within an R-
1 Residential Zoning District without the installation and maintenance of rain
gutters and drains upon the roof of the building, which shall not be less than
four inches in diameter.
   (G)   Double and reverse frontage lots. Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation.
(Prior Code, § 9B-3A-4) (Ord. 519, passed 9-19-1974; Ord. 562, passed 8-7-1975;
Ord. 590, passed 12-18-1975; Ord. 595, passed 2-20-1976; Ord. 922, passed 11-
17-1983; Ord. 976, passed 6-6-1985; Ord. 1327, passed 4-15-1993; Ord. 1538,
passed 8-7-1997; Ord. 1673-A, passed 11-2-2000)
R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.045 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all R-2 Residential Districts and
shall be subject to the provisions of §§
159.017,
159.125 through 159.129,
159.140 through
159.142 and
159.170 through
159.175.
(Prior Code, § 9B-3B-1)
§ 159.046 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   All uses permitted in the R-1 District;
   (B)   Dwellings designed for and occupied by two or more families,
exclusively for dwelling purposes, not exceeding 32 feet on any lot or parcel
of land. Each and every dwelling unit must contain the following minimum square
footage of floor area. Measurements are exclusive of halls, stairways or other
common areas;
   (C)   Efficiency unit;
   (D)   One-bedroom apartment 650 square feet;
   (E)   Two-bedroom apartment 800 square feet; and
   (F)   No living quarters shall be permitted below ground level.
(Prior Code, § 9B-3B-2)
§ 159.047 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area; lot coverage and dwelling standards. Each lot shall have a
minimum width of 80 feet. No building, with its accessory buildings, shall
occupy in excess of 35% of the area of the lot. The minimum lot area applicable
to each dwelling unit, as defined by §
159.004, and the other applicable provisions of the village code, shall be
2,721.13 square feet, as computed and determined by a maximum of 16 dwelling
units permitted per acre. The lot area stated does not include the area nor
dimensions of any street dedications.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Front, rear and side yards. The yard requirements specified in the
R-1 Residential Districts shall be the requirements for the R-2 Residential
Districts as if the same were set forth hereunder.
      (2)   Corner lots. The corner lot requirements specified in the R-
1 Residential District shall be the requirements for the R-2 Residential
Districts as if the same were set forth hereunder.
   (C)   Building height. No building shall be erected or altered to exceed 32
feet in height.
   (D)   Garages.
      (1)   Attached garages. All the exterior walls, trim, decorating,
cornices, gutters, leaders, balconies, enclosures, ornamental elements, roofs
or other enclosing surfaces of garages attached to residential buildings in R-
2 Residential Districts shall be of the same type of construction and materials
as the sidewalls, roof and exterior surfaces of the existing residential
building to, in or on which the garage is attached.
      (2)   Unattached garages.
         (a)   All exterior walls of unattached garages in an R-2 Residential,
Multiple-Family Dwelling Zoning District, as defined by this subchapter and §§
159.015 through
159.017 shall be constructed of face brick, common brick, synthetic brick
veneer, plain stone, decorative stone or architectural stone, or any
combination thereof.
         (b)   No exterior wall of unattached garages in an R-2 Residential,
Multiple-Family Dwelling Zoning District, as defined by this subchapter and §§
159.015 through
159.017 shall be constructed of cinder blocks, stucco, metal or wood, or any
combination thereof.
   (E)   Construction of walls.
      (1)   Concrete floors. All floors, other than ground floor slabs,
constructed and installed in buildings located in R-2 Multiple-Family
Residential Zoning Districts, as defined in §§
159.045 through
159.047, shall be of reinforced, pre-stressed concrete, on precast joists, with
a minimum floor thickness of not less than five inches.
      (2)   Exterior walls.
         (a)   All exterior walls of any building (including garage) located in
an R-2 Multiple-Family Zoning District shall be constructed of solid masonry
with face brick exterior.
         (b)   No exterior walls of any building located in an R-2 Multiple-
Family Zoning District shall be constructed of block, stucco, brick veneer,
synthetic brick veneer, metal or wood, or any combination thereof.
      (3)   Fire walls.
         (a)   Fire walls, as defined in the applicable provisions of the
Village Fire Prevention Code and Building Code, constructed with a fire stop
rating of not less than two hours shall be installed and maintained between all
residential dwelling units constructed in buildings within Multiple-Family
Dwelling Zoning Districts.
         (b)   All fire walls shall be constructed, installed and maintained to
extend from the floor of the lowest residential dwelling unit, through all
ceilings, to join with, and attach to, the roof of the subject building.
   (F)   Rain gutters and drains. It shall be unlawful to construct, erect,
build or maintain any building for residential occupancy within an R-
2 Residential Zoning District without the installation and maintenance of rain
gutters and drains upon the roof of the building, which shall not be less than
six inches in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 9B-3B-3) (Ord. 520, passed 9-19-1974; Ord. 546, passed 4-17-
1975; Ord. 563, passed 8-7-1975; Ord. 818, passed 11-6-1980; Ord. 909, passed
7-7-1983; Ord. 1673-A, passed 11-2-2000)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
§ 159.060 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all Commercial Districts and shall
be subject to the provisions of §§
159.017,
159.125 through 159.129,
159.140 through
159.142 and
159.155 through
159.158.
(Ord. 1940, passed 8-2-2007)
§ 159.061 PURPOSE.
   The commercial district is established to provide areas for a wide range of
retail stores and personal service establishments which are desirable to
provide for both day-to day and occasional shopping needs.
(Ord. 1940, passed 8-2-2007)
§ 159.062 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following retail business and service uses are permitted.
   (B)   Provided, they are operated entirely within a building, except for
off-street parking and loading facilities:
      (1)   Apparel shops;
      (2)   Art and school supply stores;
      (3)   Art galleries and studios;
      (4)   Auto accessory stores;
      (5)   Bakery shops, including the baking and processing of food products
when prepared for retail sales on the premises only;
      (6)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
      (7)   Bicycle sales and repair;
      (8)   Book and stationery stores, excluding adult book stores;
      (9)   Bowling alleys;
      (10)   Camera and photographic supply shops for retail sale;
      (11)   Candy and ice cream shops;
      (12)   Carpet, rug and linoleum stores;
      (13)   Catalog offices for mail order stores;
      (14)   China and glassware stores;
      (15)   Coin and philatelic stores;
      (16)   Costume rental shops;
      (17)   Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair shops,
when conducted for retail sales on the premises only;
      (18)   Department stores;
      (19)   Drugstores;
      (20)   Dry-cleaning and pressing establishments, when cleaning is not
done on the premises;
      (21)   Dry goods stores;
      (22)   Electrical appliance stores and repairs, but not including
appliance manufacture or assembly;
      (23)   Florist shops and conservatories for retail trade on the premises
only;
      (24)   Food, meat and fruit stores;
      (25)   Frozen food stores and food lockers;
      (26)   Furniture stores and upholstery when conducted as a part of the
retail operations and secondary to the main use;
      (27)   Furrier, when conducted for retail trade;
      (28)   Garden supply stores;
      (29)   Gift and card shops;
      (30)   Hardware stores;
      (31)   Hobby stores;
      (32)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of
draperies, slipcovers, and other similar articles, when conducted as a part of
the retail operations and secondary to the main use;
      (33)   Jewelry and watch sales and repair shops;
      (34)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
      (35)   Locksmiths;
      (36)   Meat markets;
      (37)   Millinery shops;
      (38)   Musical shops, musical instrument sales and repair, retail trade
only;
      (39)   Orthopedic and medical appliance stores, but not including the
assembly or manufacture of the articles;
      (40)   Package liquor stores;
      (41)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
      (42)   Pet shops and pet supplies;
      (43)   Picture framing, when conducted for retail trade on the premises
only;
      (44)   Photo developing and processing; photography studios, including
the development of film and pictures when done as part of the retail business
on the premises;
      (45)   Public utility collection offices;
      (46)   Residential glazing service;
      (47)   Restaurants, tearooms or cafés, when the establishment is not of
the drive-in type;
      (48)   Sewing machines, sales and service;
      (49)   Shoe and hat stores, and repairing when done as part of the retail
business;
      (50)   Signs, as regulated by this code;
      (51)   Sporting goods stores;
      (52)   Stationery stores;
      (53)   Taxidermists;
      (54)   Theater, indoor;
      (55)   Toy stores;
      (56)   Typewriter and adding machine sales and service;
      (57)   Undertaking establishments, funeral parlors or mortuaries; and
      (58)   Variety stores.
(Ord. 1940, passed 8-2-2007)
§ 159.063 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be applied by special use permit:
   (A)   Other retail business used not specifically listed in §
159.062 when found to have economic compatibility with established uses on
adjoining property;
   (B)   Accessory uses, including off-street parking and loading facilities;
   (C)   Ambulance services, private;
   (D)   Amusement establishments, such as arcades, billiard parlors,
commercial swimming pools, health and fitness centers, racquetball clubs,
skating rinks and other similar places of recreation;
   (E)   Animal hospitals, clinics and grooming services when conducted wholly
within an enclosed building;
   (F)   Automobile repair, minor, provided all activities are conducted in
building areas equipped with facilities which will prevent the escape of
noxious fumes or noise compatible with the normal use of other zoning lots in
the vicinity;
   (G)   Automobile and motor vehicle sales;
   (H)   Automobile service stations, gas stations, automobile service
stations/mini-marts;
   (I)   Automobile washing, including the use of mechanical conveyors, blowers
and steam cleaning;
   (J)   Banks and financial institutions including drive-in facilities;
   (K)   Billiard and poolrooms;
   (L)   Blueprinting and duplicating establishments;
   (M)   Catering, limited to secondary uses or when found to have economic
compatibility with other established uses on adjoining properties;
   (N)   Commercial and industrial glazing establishments;
   (O)   Contractors’ offices, limited to administrative and/or clerical
functions;
   (P)   Contractors offices and shops, if operated as an integral part of a
retail business enterprise otherwise permitted in §
159.062; provided that:
      (1)   No manufacturing, fabricating or assembly of products is performed
on the premises;
      (2)   All operations, all dispatching areas and facilities for workers
and equipment, and materials are within the principal enclosed building; and
      (3)   No outside parking of commercial vehicles or equipment will be
allowed, except for normal deliveries and shipments during business hours;
   (Q)   Currency exchanges;
   (R)   Dental laboratories;
   (S)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes and nursing homes;
   (T)   Hotels and motels, including restaurants and meeting rooms;
   (U)   Laundries, automatic, self-service types or hand;
   (V)   Loan offices and finance companies;
   (W)   Massage or similar personal service shops;
   (X)   Office, business and professional, including clinics, medical or
dental;
   (Y)   Parking lots and garages, other than accessory;
   (Z)   Animal hospitals when conducted wholly within an enclosed building;
   (AA)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning sales and services;
   (BB)   Postal substations;
   (CC)   Public utility collection offices and public services uses,
including;
      (1)   Electric substations;
      (2)   Fire stations;
      (3)   Police stations;
      (4)   Public art galleries and museums;
      (5)   Public libraries;
      (6)   Telephone exchanges, repeater stations and other outdoor equipment
essential to the operation of the exchange in the interest of public
convenience and necessity; and
      (7)   Bus terminal or other public transportation terminal facilities.
   (DD)   Restaurant, drive-in type;
   (EE)   Retail or service business establishments in buildings 225 square
feet or less;
   (FF)   Savings and loan associations;
   (GG)   Schools: music, dance, business, commercial or trade;
   (HH)   Taverns, pubs and cocktail lounges;
   (II)   Telephone answering services;
   (JJ)   Telephone booths, public;
   (KK)   Tobacco shops;
   (LL)   Travel bureau and transportation ticket offices; and
   (MM)   Other retail business or personal service shops not specifically
listed in this section, when found to be economically compatible with
established uses on adjoining properties.
   (NN)   The following special use may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in §§
159.170 to
159.175, as appropriate: Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
(Ord. 1940, passed 8-2-2007; Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 159.064 CONDITIONS OF USE.
   All permitted and special uses in this district shall be retail and service
establishments dealing directly with consumers and shall be subject to the
following conditions.
   (A)   The sale of foodstuffs or articles intended for human consumption
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
   (B)   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than that which is clearly incidental and essential to the retail
business conducted on the same premises.
   (C)   The uses, operations or products shall not be objectionable due to
odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar causes.
   (D)   Any exterior sign displayed shall pertain only to a use conducted
within the building.
(Ord. 1940, passed 8-2-2007)
§ 159.065 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. All commercial lots shall have a front yard of not less
than 70 feet in depth, and no building, accessory building or structure shall
be located within the front yard.
      (2)   Side yards. None, except where the use abuts upon the side of a lot
in an R District, in which case, there shall be a side yard on the lot in the
C-1 District, the same as specified for the adjacent R District and, In
addition, shall be fenced and screened from view from any adjoining lot in the
R District; except where there is no rear alley or access easement, then two
feet on one side only. Where the rear lot line of a corner lot in a C-
1 District is in common with or separated only by an alley from any line of a
lot in a residence district, a ten-foot side yard on the street side of the C-
1 lot shall be provided.
   (B)   Construction of walls.
      (1)   Exterior walls.
         (a)   Materials permitted.
            1.   All exterior walls facing or paralleling all streets, as
defined in §
159.004, of any building located in a Commercial Zoning District shall be
constructed of face brick, decorative or architectural stone.
            2.   All exterior walls of any building located in a Commercial
Zoning District which do not face or parallel a street, as defined in §
159.004, shall be constructed of face brick, common brick, plain stone,
decorative stone or architectural stone, or any combination thereof.
         (b)   Materials prohibited.
            1.   No exterior wall, facing or paralleling any street, as defined
in §
159.004, of any building located in a Commercial Zoning District shall be
constructed of cement blocks, concrete blocks, slag blocks, cinder blocks,
stucco, common brick, synthetic brick veneer, metal or wood, or any combination
thereof.
            2.   No exterior wall, which does not face nor parallel any street,
as defined in §
159.004, of any building located in a Commercial Zoning District shall be
constructed of cement blocks, concrete blocks, slag blocks, cinder blocks,
stucco, synthetic veneer, metal or wood, or any combination thereof.
      (2)   Fire walls.
         (a)   Fire walls, as defined in the applicable provisions of the
Village Fire Prevention Code and Building Code, constructed with a fire stop
rating of not less than two hours shall be installed and maintained between all
commercial use units constructed in buildings within Commercial Zoning
Districts.
         (b)   All fire walls shall be constructed, installed and maintained to
extend from the floor of the lowest commercial unit, through all ceilings, to
join with and attach to the roof of the subject building.
(Prior Code, § 9B-4-3) (Ord. 640, passed 5-5-1970; Ord. 886, passed 10-7-1982;
Ord. 910, passed 7-7-1983; Ord. 1038, passed 7-2-1987)
§ 159.066 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The following restrictions shall apply to this District:
   (A)   Sales of secondhand merchandise prohibited;
   (B)   All business or service or processing of aforesaid stores, shops or
business shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building,
except for automobile parking and off-street loading and the sale of automotive
fuel and/or vehicles;
   (C)   The repair or processing of goods shall be limited to those which are
not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, heat or
glare or water-carried waste;
   (D)   All products, whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail
on the premises where produced;
   (E)   Outside storage or material or supplies is prohibited; and
   (F)   Any lighting must be so placed as to reflect the light away from lots
in residential districts.
(Prior Code, § 9B-4-4)
§ 159.067 OFF-TRACK WAGERING FACILITY.
   Provided that the a parcel in the Crestwood Commercial Zoning District
exceeds 250 feet in its greatest linear dimension and five acres in net acres
(excluding streets) the operation of an off-track wagering facility and the
taking of wagers upon athletic events and all other events as defined and
permitted by Illinois for a wagering or sports book facility, together with the
service of food and alcoholic beverages, conditioned upon the issuance of
village licenses, shall be a permitted use, all in accordance with the Village
Plan and Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2565, passed 7-16-2020)
LIGHT INDUSTRY DISTRICT
§ 159.080 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all Light Industry Districts and
shall be subject to the provisions of §§
159.017,
159.125 through
159.128,  
159.140 through
159.142 and
159.155 through
159.158.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5A-1)
§ 159.081 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes in the
Light Industry District.
   (A)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as:
      (1)   Bakery goods;
      (2)   Candy;
      (3)   Cosmetics;
      (4)   Food products (except fish and meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar,
yeast and the rendering or refining of fats and oils);
      (5)   Pharmaceuticals; and
      (6)   Toiletries.
   (B)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles or
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials:
      (1)   Bone;
      (2)   Canvas;
      (3)   Cellophane;
      (4)   Cloth;
      (5)   Cork;
      (6)   Feathers;
      (7)   Felt;
      (8)   Fiber;
      (9)   Fur;
      (10)   Glass;
      (11)   Hair;
      (12)   Horn;
      (13)   Paper;
      (14)   Plastics;
      (15)   Precious or semi-precious metals or stones;
      (16)   Previously prepared metals;
      (17)   Shell;
      (18)   Tanned leather;
      (19)   Textiles;
      (20)   Wood (excluding planing mill); and
      (21)   Yarns.
   (C)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
   (D)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and devices;
   (E)   Automobile painting, upholstering, repairing, reconditioning body and
fender work;
   (F)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant, retail of equipment
commonly used by contractors;
   (G)   Creamery or bottling plant;
   (H)   Laboratories - experimental or testing;
   (I)   Laundry, cleaning and dyeing works and carpet and rug cleaning;
   (J)   Lumber yard, coal yard and building materials yard;
   (K)   Plumbing or sheet metal shop; and
   (L)   Wholesale business, storage and warehouses.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5A-2)
§ 159.082 PROHIBITED USES.
   No building or area shall be used for any of the following uses:
   (A)   The cooking, distillation, processing and incineration of animal and
vegetable products, including, but not limited to, brewery, distillery, food
canning plant, slaughterhouse, stock yards, fat rendering, soap manufacture,
glue manufacture, tannery, paper manufacturing, wool scouring and cleaning;
cotton textile sizing, scouring, bleaching, dyeing and similar operations;
paint and varnish manufacture, creosote and creosote products manufacture;
   (B)   The production of corrosive and noxious chemicals, including, but not
limited to, acids, acetylene gas, ammonia, chlorine and bleaching compounds.
The production, manufacture, processing and storage of coal, coal tar,
petroleum and asphalt products, illuminating gas, linoleum, oilcloth or roofing
material;
   (C)   The extraction, preparation and processing of dust-producing mineral
products, including but not limited to abrasives, cement lime, fertilizer,
plaster, crushed stone, stone-cutting products; mining of sand, gravel and
topsoil;
   (D)   The smelting and reduction of metallic ores, including, but not
limited to, blast furnace, open hearth and electric furnace, Bessemer
converter, nonferrous metal smelter;
   (E)   The manufacture and storage of explosive products, including, but not
limited to, dynamite and commercial explosives, TNT and military explosives and
fireworks;
   (F)   The use of hammer mills, ball mills, rolling mills or drop forges; and
   (G)   The storage of materials customarily stored in the open, such as junk,
paper and scrap metal.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5A-3) (Ord. 749, passed 6-7-1979)
§ 159.083 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area and lot frontage. No building shall be constructed and no
premises used for the purposes permitted in a Light Industry District on any
lot which has an area of less than 15,000 square feet or on any lot which has a
frontage of less than 100 feet on any public street.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. Within any Light Industry District, there shall be a
front yard of not less than 20 feet in depth. Except for necessary drives,
walks and required off-street parking, a front yard shall be planted in grass
or other suitable ground covering including flowers, ornamental shrubs and
trees. One sign containing not more than 60 square feet of display surface, or
two signs, each containing not more than 30 square feet of display surface,
used to advertise the name of the industry located on the premises or the
products thereof may be placed in any required front yard. On any through lot,
front yards shall be maintained on both streets.
      (2)   Side yards. Within any Light Industry District, there shall be two
side yards of no less than five feet in width in any case. On a corner lot, the
side yard adjacent to a street shall be subject to the regulations governing a
front yard, except the regulations governing the depth of the front yard;
except that, corner lots adjacent to streets forming the outer periphery of the
L-1 District shall be subject to the front yard requirements along the frontage
of each of the adjacent streets.
      (3)   Rear yard. The depth of the rear yard shall be not less than ten
feet.
   (C)   Building height. No building shall be erected or altered to exceed 32
feet in height.
   (D)   Light industry; exterior walls.
      (1)   All exterior walls of any building in a Light Industry Zoning
Districts shall be constructed of solid masonry with brick exterior.
      (2)   No exterior walls of any building located in a Light Industry
District shall be constructed of block, stucco, brick veneer, synthetic brick
veneer, metal or wood, or any combination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5A-4) (Ord. 496, passed 9-6-1973; Ord. 612, passed 8-5-1976;
Ord. 676, passed 3-2-1978; Ord. 834, passed 1-8-1981; Ord. 885, passed 9-16-
1982; Ord. 911, passed 7-7-1983; Ord. 1673-A, passed 11-2-2000)
§ 159.084 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The following restrictions shall apply to this District:
   (A)   No land or building shall be used or occupied in any manner as to
create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable fire,
explosive radioactive or other hazard; emit any noise or vibration, smoke,
dust, odor, noxious, toxic or corrosive fumes of gases, or particulate matter;
discharge any liquid or solid refuse or waste conducive to the breeding of
rodents or insects into any stream, ditch or other open area in a manner or
amount as to adversely affect the surrounding area. All industry must comply
with existing ordinances on air pollution and noise abatement.
   (B)   Operations in the Light Industry District may be conducted outside of
a completely enclosed building; provided that, in the event any operations
permitted in a Light Industry District are not conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed building, that portion of the premises upon which the
outside light industry operations are conducted, or upon which raw materials,
fuel, finished products, machinery and equipment, including company-owned or
operated trucks and motor vehicles, are stored shall be obscured from public
view and public roadways by a fence, shrubbery, trees or landscaping. Liquids
may be stored in underground tanks subject to the provisions of appropriate
fire and building codes.
   (C)   No operation shall be carried on that would produce heat or glare
perceptibly from any property line of the lot on which the operation is
located.
   (D)   No lighting shall be of a nature as to produce glare on public streets
or highways or neighboring property.
   (E)   No substance other than oil, gas or electricity shall be used as fuel.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5A-5) (Ord. 673, passed 1-19-1978)
§ 159.085 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in §§ 159.170 to 159.175, as
appropriate:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization; and
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
HEAVY INDUSTRY DISTRICT
§ 159.095 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all Heavy Industry Districts and
shall be subject to the provisions of §§
159.017,
159.125 through
159.128,
159.140 through
159.142 and
159.155 through
159.158.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5B-1)
§ 159.096 USES PERMITTED.
   All uses permitted in the Light Industry Districts.
   (A)   Bleaching;
   (B)   Brewery;
   (C)   Distillery;
   (D)   Dyeing;
   (E)   Food canning;
   (F)   Manufacture of linoleum, oilcloth, roofing material, plaster; and
   (G)   Storage of coal, coal tar, asphalt products.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5B-2)
§ 159.097 PROHIBITED USES.
   No building or area shall be used for any of the following uses:
   (A)   Cooking, distillation, processing and incineration of animals;
slaughterhouses, stockyards, fat rendering, soap manufacture, glue manufacture,
tannery, manufacture of creosoted products;
   (B)   Extraction, preparation and processing of dust-producing mineral
products;
   (C)   Manufacture and storage of explosive products;
   (D)   Production of corrosive and noxious chemicals including, but not
limited to, acids, acetylene gas, ammonia, chlorine;
   (E)   Storage of junk, paper products and scrap metal;
   (F)   Storage of petroleum products;
   (G)   Uses of hammer, ball, rolling mills or drop forges; and
   (H)   Extraction, preparation and processing of dust producing mineral
products, including but not limited to abrasives, cement lime, fertilizer,
plaster, stone, crushed stone, stone cutting products; mining of sand, gravel,
stone and top soil, is a prohibited use unless it is approved as a special use
in the Heavy Industrial District pursuant to strict compliance with §
159.172 and satisfies all other requirements of the Light and Heavy Industrial
Districts, except §
159.084(B).
(Prior Code, § 9B-5B-3) (Ord. 1785, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 159.098 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area and frontage; yards; building height. Same as Light Industry
District, §
159.083(A), (B)(1), (B)(3) and (C).
   (B)   Construction of walls.
      (1)   All exterior walls of any building in a Heavy Industry Zoning
District shall be constructed of solid masonry with brick exterior.
      (2)   No exterior walls of any building located in a Heavy Industry
District shall be constructed of block, stucco, brick veneer, synthetic brick
veneer, metal or wood, or any combination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5B-4) (Ord. 613, passed 8-5-1976; Ord. 832, passed 1-8-1981;
Ord. 883, passed 9-16-1982; Ord. 912, passed 7-7-1983; Ord. 1673-A, passed 11-
2-2000)
§ 159.099 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Same as those in the Light Industry District, except §
159.084(B).
   (B)   Special uses. The following special uses may be permitted in specific
situations in accordance with the procedures outlined in §§
159.170 to
159.175, as appropriate:
      (1)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization;
      (2)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation organization;
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization;
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization; and
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
(Prior Code, § 9B-5B-5) (Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
INDUSTRIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT ONE
§ 159.100 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Industrial Overlay District One (the “IOD-1") is established as an overlay
district in the Light Industry District. The boundaries of the IOD-1 are shown
on the zoning map on file with the Village Clerk. Within the IOD-1, all
requirements of the Light Industry District remain in effect, except where this
subchapter provides an alternative to such requirements. In cases where Light
Industry District standards, or other ordinances or regulations are
inconsistent with any of the provisions of the IOD-1, the standards of the IOD-
1 shall govern. If the provisions of the IOD-1 are silent on a zoning
regulation, the requirements of the Light Industry District shall apply.
(Ord. 2171, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 159.101 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The regulations governing this district shall be as contained in §§
159.017,
159.125 through
159.128,
159.140 through
159.142, and
159.155 through
159.158.
(Ord. 2171, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 159.102 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   All uses permitted in the Light Industry District shall be permitted in
Industrial Overlay District One.
(Ord. 2171, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 159.103 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses prohibited in the Light Industry District shall be prohibited in
Industrial Overlay District One unless stated herein. The following special
uses may be permitted in Industrial Overlay District One, as approved,
pertinent to §§
159.172,
159.173 and
159.175 of the village code:
   (A)   Adult uses; and
   (B)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers and medical dispensing
organizations.
(Ord. 2171, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 159.104 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area and lot frontage. Same as Light Industry District.
   (B)   Yards. Same as Light Industry District.
   (C)   Building height. Same as Light Industry District.
   (D)   Light industry; exterior walls. Same as Light Industry District.
(Ord. 2171, passed 6-19-2014)
§ 159.105 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Same as those in the Light Industry District.
(Ord. 2171, passed 6-19-2014)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
§ 159.125 FENCES AND HEDGES.
   (A)   General requirements for fences.
      (1)   Barbed wire and electric fences.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain anywhere in the
village a fence equipped with or having an electric charge sufficient to cause
shock.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain a fence equipped with
or having barbed wire, spikes or any similar device:
            1.   In any areas of the village zoned for single-family or
multiple-family residential uses; or
            2.   In any areas in the village contiguous to an area zoned for
single-family or multiple-family uses.
      (3)   No fences are allowed in any front yard within the village.
   (B)   Fences and shrubbery in R-1 and R-2 Districts.
      (1)   Front yards.
         (a)   Hedge rows must not exceed 30 inches in height and must be
maintained at a minimum distance of 12 inches from any public sidewalk or
street.
      (2)   Rear and side yards.
         (a)   No fence or gate shall exceed six feet in height unless required
by other ordinances.
         (b)   Hedge rows may not exceed six feet in height.
         (c)   Lot line fences: lot line fences must be kept within four inches
of the lot line.
         (d)   Privacy screens: privacy screens located within four inches of
lot line shall be considered a fence.
   (C)   Fences and shrubbery in Commercial, Light Industry and Heavy Industry
Districts. Fences and shrubs shall be of a construction and variety and
maintained in a manner as not to be an eyesore or a detriment to the village.
(Prior Code, § 9B-6-4) (Ord. 1083, passed 9-15-1988; Ord. 1200, passed 8-2-
1990; Ord. 2686, passed 7-20-2023) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.126 TRAILER, CAMPER AND BOAT PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOAT. Any device used or capable of being used for navigation on water.
      BOAT TRAILER. Includes every vehicle designed or utilized for the
transportation of any boat, without motive power, designed for being drawn by
another vehicle.
      COMMERCIAL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis
designed to be used for a business, trade or occupation and which may be used
as a conveyance on streets or highways.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure, built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses. A TRAVEL TRAILER shall include the following: self-contained
travel trailer, pick-up coach, motorized home, camping trailer and mobile home.
   (B)   Parking restrictions in residential districts. In an R-1 or R-
2 Residential District, as defined in §§
159.004,
159.033 and
159.047, travel trailers, campers, boats, boat trailers or commercial trailers,
as herein defined, shall only be stored or parked in side or rear yards,
excluding side yards on corner lots that adjoin a public street. In addition to
the foregoing restrictions, travel trailers, campers, boats, boat trailers or
commercial trailers may only be stored or parked in an R-1 or R-2 Residential
District if they are parked or stored at least three feet from any lot line and
placed on an asphalt or concreted surface.
   (C)   Special uses may be granted. Nothing contained in this section shall
prohibit granting of a special use, by reason of practical difficulties or
particular hardship, upon compliance with the provisions, terms and conditions
of §§
159.170 through
159.175.
(Prior Code, § 9B-6-5) (Ord. 2232, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.127 FIRE RESISTANCE IN BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All structures and buildings shall comply with the Building Code, Fire
Prevention Code and other applicable provisions for the nature, type, design
and construction thereof, as contained in the village code.
   (B)   In addition, in all multiple-family structures and buildings (as
defined in §§
159.045 through
159.047) all commercial structures and buildings (as defined in §§
159.060 through
159.066), all light and/or heavy industrial structures and buildings (as
defined in §§
159.080 through
159.084 and
159.095 through
159.099), the fire resistance rating of structural elements, including walls
and floors, tenant separations and/or party walls, shall be a minimum of two
hours.
   (C)   In the multiple-family, commercial, light and/or heavy industrial
structures and buildings, all exterior and loadbearing wall construction shall
be of masonry and all floors shall be of the precast concrete type, poured
concrete type or other type having at least a two-hour fire resistance rating.
(Prior Code, § 9B-6-7) (Ord. 895, passed 12-2-1982) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.128 SIGNS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Compliance with provisions. No sign, billboard, advertising display
or structure, poster or device shall be erected, displayed or used except as
expressly permitted in this chapter, and except the state, county and village
signs and traffic signs as are installed for public purposes.
      (2)   Location; projecting signs. In no case shall any sign protrude or
extend beyond the property lines of the lot on which it is erected and, in no
case, shall any sign be closer than 30 feet to any residential district.
      (3)   Audible signs prohibited. In no case shall any sign be audible.
   (B)   Signs permitted.
      (1)   Commercial districts. In a Commercial Zoning District, the
following signs shall be permitted:
         (a)   A sign pertaining to the commercial use conducted within the
main commercial building on the subject commercial premises, provided and
conditioned as follows:
            1.   The display area of the sign shall not exceed 60 square feet;
however, if a business establishment occupies more than 50 feet of frontage on
the adjoining public roadway or street, the total aggregate display area of all
signs on the subject commercial premises may be increased, in display area, at
the rate of one additional square foot of display area for each foot of
frontage exceeding 50 feet on the adjoining public roadway or street but, in no
case, shall the aggregate display area of the sign exceed 200 square feet.
            2.   If supported by posts, poles or other appurtenances, no sign
shall be displayed within ten feet of the ground and no sign shall exceed 24
feet in altitude or height above ground.
            3.   If placed directly upon the ground, no sign shall exceed six
feet in height.
            4.   All signs shall be set back not less than ten feet from the
front lot line.
         (b)   Subject to the display area, height, altitude and location
restrictions applicable to signs pertaining to commercial use, as stated in the
provisions of division (B)(1) above, signs relating to the sale or lease of
commercial land or commercial buildings; and
         (c)   Village of Crestwood, State of Illinois, County of Cook and
Township signs, including those installed and maintained for traffic or other
public purposes.
      (2)   Industrial districts. In Industrial Districts, business signs and
advertising devices are permitted, subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   General application.
            1.   Area. The gross area in square feet of all signs on a zoning
lot shall not exceed ten times the lineal feet of frontage of the zoning lot.
However, the gross area of all flashing signs shall not exceed five times the
lineal feet of frontage of the zoning lot.
            2.   Projection. No sign shall project more than 18 inches from the
face of the wall of any building or structure.
            3.   Height. No sign shall project higher than 30 feet above curb
level. No self-supporting sign shall have less than ten feet ground clearance.
         (b)   Integrated centers. For integrated centers in single ownership
or under unified control or individual uses with a minimum frontage of 150
feet, one additional sign other than those regulated in division (B)(2)(a)
above shall be permitted, subject to the following.
            1.   Content. The sign shall advertise only the name and location
of the center or individual use and the name and type of business of each
occupant of the center.
            2.   Area. The gross area in square feet of the additional sign on
a zoning lot shall not exceed five times the lineal feet of frontage of the
zoning lot.
            3.   Setback. The sign shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from
the front lot line of the center or individual use.
            4.   Height. No sign shall project higher than 32 feet above the
curb level. No self-supporting sign shall have less than ten feet ground
clearance.
(Prior Code, § 9B-6-3) (Ord. 923, passed 11-17-1983) Penalty, see §
159.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 159.140 GENERAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FLOOR AREA. The gross floor area and the open land area required for
service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or patients including
areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of
merchandise. It shall not include areas used as restrooms or areas or parts of
areas used principally for nonpublic purposes, such as storage, automobile
parking, incidental repairs, processing, packaging of merchandise, show windows
or for offices or maintenance of stores or buildings.
      REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. An area in the form of a rectangle
measuring not less than nine feet in width by 20 feet in depth. Each space
shall be accessible from streets or alleys or private driveways or aisles not
less than 23 feet in width leading to streets or driveways. In any residential
district, no required off-street parking space shall occupy any portion of a
front yard.
   (B)   Parking space required. There shall be provided in all districts, at
the time of erection or enlargement of any main building or structure,
automobile off-street parking space with adequate access and egress to all
spaces.
   (C)   Plans.
      (1)   For the purpose of providing off-street parking spaces as required
in accordance with this chapter, plans must be submitted to and approved by the
Building Inspector before issuance of a building permit. The plans shall show
how the required off-street parking spaces shall be arranged and shall indicate
sufficient space for turning maneuvers as will as adequate ingress and egress
to the parking area.
      (2)   Before issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall
obtain the approval of the Plan Commission for all plans requiring 15 or more
off-street parking spaces.
   (D)   Use of parking facilities.
      (1)   Whenever a building permit has been granted and the plans so
approved for off-street parking, the subsequent use of the property shall be
deemed to be conditional upon the unqualified continuance and availability of
the parking provisions contained in the plans. Any use of the property in
violation hereof shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The parking of more than one commercial vehicle, or the parking of
a commercial vehicle of more than one-ton capacity on any lot in any
residential district shall be considered a commercial use and is hereby
prohibited.
   (E)   Change of use; additions or enlargements.
      (1)   Should the owner or occupant of any building to whom a building
permit has been granted containing off-street parking requirements so change
the use to which the building is put as to increase off-street parking as
required under this chapter, it shall be unlawful and a violation of this
chapter to begin or maintain the altered use until the time as the increased
off-street parking provisions of this section are complied with.
      (2)   No addition or enlargement of an existing building or use shall be
permitted unless the parking requirements of this chapter are met for the
entire building or use.
   (F)   Mixed uses. In the case of mixed uses, the total requirements for off-
street parking space shall be the sum of the re-requirements of the various
uses computed separately as specified in this section, and the off-street
parking space for one use shall be considered as providing the required off-
street parking for any other use.
   (G)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Every parcel of land hereafter used as parking space or a loading
space shall have a bituminous or other an all-weather dust-free surface.
      (2)   All public off-street parking spaces shall be illuminated, and all
lights used to illuminate the parking spaces shall be so arranged as to reflect
the light away from adjoining lots in residential districts.
      (3)   No sign other than those necessary for orderly parking control are
to be erected or displayed in any public parking area.
   (H)   Access. Every access road, aisle and public or private driveway
leading to and from off-street parking spaces, as required and defined by this
section, or extending from the street, as defined in §
159.004, shall be installed, constructed, improved and surfaced with a
waterproof, watertight and moisture unpenetrable type material consisting of
asphalt, bituminous concrete, concrete or bituminous-sealed penetrated macadam,
or a combination thereof, and of a design and further construction in
accordance with the applicable provisions and requirements of the State
Standard Specifications and the Village Standard Construction Detail Sheet.
(Prior Code, § 9B-6-1-(1)) (Ord. 598, passed 4-15-1976) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.141 SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Automobile parking spaces will be provided according to the following
schedule and shall be subject to the following conditions in any district in
which any of the following uses shall be established:
Churches       1 space for each 72 lineal inches of pew space or 4 seats in the church
Hospital       1 off-street parking space per bed plus 1 additional off-street parking space
               of each employee
Medical or     10 spaces per doctor engaged in clinic
dental offices
Motels and     1 space for each guest room, plus 1 additional space for the owner or manager
tourist homes  and each employee
Multi-family   2 spaces for each family dwelling unit
dwellings
Nursing home,
convalescent
home, shelter  1 off-street parking space for every 3 beds plus 1 off-street parking space for
care and       each employee
senior
citizens home
Places of
public
assembly
including
private clubs,
lodges and
fraternal
buildings not
providing
overnight
accommodations
assembly       1 space for each 3 fixed seats provided for patrons’ use or 1 space for every 3
halls,         persons capable of being accommodated in any building which does not contain
auditoriums,   fixed seats
skating rinks,
dance halls,
theaters,
stadiums,
gymnasiums,
amusement
parks, funeral
homes,
community
centers,
libraries
Restaurant,
bars, taverns,
nightclubs and 1 space for every 3 persons capable of being accommodated in the aforesaid
all other      establishments, not including kitchens, restrooms and storage areas, plus an
similar dining additional 1 space for each employee
and/or
drinking
establishments
Single-family  2 spaces for each family dwelling unit
dwelling
Notwithstanding the provisions in the above paragraphs, the Village Board may require
additional off-street parking, as determined by the Board, to be needed at the time of the
application for building permit to construct the hospital, nursing home, convalescent home,
shelter care or senior citizens home.
Banking,
savings and
loan           1 space for each 40 square feet of usable floor area, plus 1 space for each
associations,  employee
businesses or
professional
offices
Furniture and
appliance
stores,
wholesale
stores,
household      1 space for each employee
equipment,
furniture
repair
offices,
machinery
sales
Notwithstanding the above requirement, the Village Board may require additional off-street
parking, as determined by the Board, to be needed at the time of the application for building
permit to construct the furniture and appliance store, wholesale store, household equipment,
furniture repair office or machinery sales.
Barber shops
and beauty     4 spaces for each operator
parlors
Retail stores  At least 1 space for each employee
Notwithstanding the above requirement, the Village Board may require
additional off-street parking, as determined by the Board, to be needed at
the time of the application for building permit to construct the retail
store.
Community shopping district areas At least 1 space for each employee
Notwithstanding the above requirement, the Village Board may require
additional off-street parking, as determined by the Board, to be needed at
the time of the application for building permit to construct the community
shopping district area.
Educational institutions:          
                                  1 space for every employee; in addition,
                                  where an auditorium is available for
   Elementary schools          public use, parking space shall be
                                  provided equal in number to one-third of
                                  the capacity in persons of the auditorium
                                  or gymnasium
   High schools                1 space for every employee and space for
                                  each 5 students
   Junior colleges and colleges1 space for each employee
                                  1 space for each employee based upon the
                                  maximum number of persons to be employed
Manufacturing and industrial use  at any one work period during the day or
                                  night, plus 1 adequate space for each
                                  vehicle used in the conduct of the
                                  operation
                                  1 space for each employee based on the
Motor freight terminals and local maximum number of persons to be employed
cartage companies                 for any period, plus 1 adequate space for
                                  each vehicle used in the conduct of the
                                  operations
Notwithstanding the above requirement, the Village Board may require
additional off-street parking, as determined by the Board, to be needed at
the time of the application for building permit to construct the junior
college or college.
Bowling alleys                    5 spaces per alley, plus 1 space for each
                                  employee
 
(Prior Code, § 9B-6-1-(2)) (Ord. 541, passed 3-6-1975)
§ 159.142 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General loading requirements.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. An on-the-property space for the standing,
loading and unloading of vehicles to avoid undue interference with the public
use of streets, alleys and sidewalks. The space shall be not less than 12 feet
in width and 45 feet in length, exclusive of access aisles and loading space
and the loading space shall have a minimum overhead clearance of 14 feet.
      (2)   Location; loading spaces separate from parking spaces. The off-
street loading facilities required shall, in all cases, be on the same lot or
parcel of land as the structure they are intended to serve. In no case shall
the required off-street loading space be part of the area used to satisfy the
off-street parking requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Surfacing. All area provided in accordance with off-street loading
requirements shall be surfaced with a bituminous or other allweather dust-free
surface.
      (4)   Access in certain districts. Within any Commercial or Light
Industry District, all vehicular entrances and exits on public streets, alleys
and highways shall be designed and constructed in a manner to best facilitate
the flow of traffic to and from the premises, and the entrances and exits shall
be subject to the approval of the traffic or highway authority having
jurisdiction over the street or highway on which they are located.
   (B)   Schedule of loading space requirements. In the use of land for any
purpose other than residential, no building or structure shall be erected
unless provision is made for the location on the lot for off-street loading
space on the basis of the following requirements: one off-street loading space
for each 20,000 square feet of gross floor area.
(Prior Code, § 9B-6-2) Penalty, see §
159.999
EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY
§ 159.155 MANAGING LAND, BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming use of land.
      (1)   The lawful use of land for storage purposes or for advertising
signs or billboards which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter
shall be discontinued within 12 months from the effective date hereof, and, by
reason of subsequent changes in this chapter, shall also be discontinued within
12 months from the effective date of the change.
      (2)   A nonconforming use shall not be extended or enlarged.
   (B)   Nonconforming buildings and uses. The lawful use of a building or
premises existing at the effective date hereof may be continued, although the
use does not conform with the provisions hereof, except as otherwise provided
in this division.
      (1)   Repairs and alterations. Repairs and alterations may be made to a
nonconforming building or structure; provided that, no structural alteration
shall be made except those required by law or ordinance.
      (2)   Additions and enlargements.
         (a)   A building or structure which does not comply with the height or
area regulations shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless so
modified structure conforms to all the regulations of the district in which it
is located.
         (b)   A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking
space connection therein, as required in §§
159.140 and
159.141, shall be altered or enlarged only when additional automobile parking
space is provided to satisfy the requirements.
      (3)   Moving buildings or structures. No nonconforming building or
structure shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any other location on the
lot, unless every portion of the building or structure is made to conform to
all the regulations of district in which it is located.
      (4)   Damaged buildings or structures. No building or structure which has
been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or the public enemy, to the extent
of more than 50% of its value, shall be restored except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (5)   Abandonment of nonconforming use. In the event that a nonconforming
use of any building or premises is discontinued or revised or its normal
operation stopped or revised for a period of six months, the use of the same
shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
      (6)   Change of uses. The use of a nonconforming building may be changed
to a more restricted classification, but not to an equal or a less restricted
classification.
(Prior Code, § 9B-7-1)
§ 159.156 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The building height restrictions of this chapter shall not apply to church
spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water towers, chimneys, flagpoles,
radio and television towers or airway beacons nor to any water tank or similar
structure extending above the roof of a building and not occupying an
aggregated area greater than 25% of the horizontal projected roof area.
(Prior Code, § 9B-7-2)
§ 159.157 AREA EXCEPTIONS.
   In computing the depth of a rear yard or width of a side yard or open court,
the easement width on the subject parcel may be assumed to be a portion of the
rear yard or court.
(Prior Code, § 9B-7-3)
§ 159.158 PUBLIC UTILITY EQUIPMENT.
   The following uses, being exempted by this chapter, are permitted in any
district: poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, materials or any
other similar distributing equipment of a public utility.
(Prior Code, § 9B-7-4)
SPECIAL USES
§ 159.170 PURPOSE.
   To provide for the location and special classes of a given district or
districts, but which are potentially incompatible with typical uses herein
permitted within them, a classification of special uses is hereby established.
(Ord. 1833, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 159.171 AUTHORITY; SPECIAL USES ENUMERATED.
   The Board of Trustees, with the approval of the Mayor, shall have the
authority to permit the following special uses of land or structures, or both,
within the village, subject to the conditions contained herein; provided that,
the corporate authorities find that the proposed location and establishment of
any such use will be desirable or necessary to the public convenience, health,
safety and welfare and will be harmonious and compatible with other uses
adjacent to and in the vicinity of the proposed site or sites; and the
authorities find that the economic effect of the granting of the special use
will not be detrimental to the finances of the village:
   (A)   Auto repair operations;
   (B)   Automobile parts and accessories businesses;
   (C)   Automobile service stations, also known as and referred to as filling
stations;
   (D)   Motor vehicle repair shops;
   (E)    Motor vehicle sales businesses, subject to the following: used
vehicle sales businesses shall be limited in number to 26;
   (F)   Public garages;
   (G)   Banks, credit unions and federal savings banks;
   (H)   Fast food restaurants with drive-through windows;
   (I)    Retail tobacco stores, subject to the following:
      (1)   Retail tobacco stores shall be limited in number to four.
      (2)   Smoking shall be prohibited inside all retail tobacco stores.
   (J)   Adult uses as defined by
Chapter 123 of the village code
   (K)   Facilities cultivating or dispensing medical cannabis shall be
permitted as a special use in Industrial Overlay District One, and in no other
zoning district. All facilities cultivating or dispensing medical cannabis
shall comply with all state statutes and regulations in effect or hereafter
enacted; and
   (L)   Any other use not specifically provided for in R-1 Residential
(single-family development), R-2 Residential (multiple-family development),
Commercial (retail sales district), Light Industry (fabricating districts),
Heavy Industry (Manufacturing Districts) and Public Property Use Districts.
(Ord. 857, passed 8-20-1981; Ord. 1833, passed 11-18-2004; Ord. 2113, passed 4-
4-2013; Ord. 2165, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2166, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2196,
passed 11-6-2014; Ord. 2646, passed 5-19-2022)
§ 159.172 PROCEDURE.
   The procedure to be followed in considering application for special uses
shall be as follows.
   (A)   Application filed. An application, verified by the owner or authorized
agent of the owner or the property involved, shall be filed with the Village
Clerk for the attention of the Plan Commission accompanied by all required
information. The application fee for all applications for special use shall be
$500, with the exception of special uses granted under §
159.171(I), which shall be $1,000.
   (B)   Hearing. Upon receipt of the verified application, the Village Clerk
shall notify the Chairperson of the Plan Commission and the Chairperson shall
give notice of a public hearing in the same manner as prescribed in this
chapter for hearings on reclassifications of property. Additional information
may be requested of the applicant by the Chairperson prior to, at the time of
or subsequent to the public hearing. A record of the relevant information
presented at the public hearing shall be made a part of the permanent record
relative to the application.
   (C)   Recommendations to the Board of Trustees. The Plan Commission shall
report its findings and recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees and
Mayor within 30 days following the date of public hearing on each application.
   (D)   Approval of special use; restrictions. The Board of Trustees and Mayor
may authorize a special use, provided the evidence presented establishes that:
      (1)   The proposed use at the particular location requested is necessary
or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the interest of
public convenience and will contribute to the general welfare of the
neighborhood or community;
      (2)   The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the
particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of persons residing in or working in the vicinity or injurious to
property values or improvements in the vicinity; and
      (3)   The proposed use will comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in the building ordinances and this chapter for the use and will
comply with the special use stipulation and conditions made a part of the
authorization granted by the Village Board of Trustees and Mayor.
(Ord. 1833, passed 11-18-2004; Ord. 2113, passed 4-4-2013)
§ 159.173 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Application for special use as provided by this subchapter shall be
accompanied by a deposit of $500. All expenses incurred by the Plan Commission
and village in the process of considering the application for special use shall
be paid from the deposit.
(Ord. 848, passed 4-16-1981; Ord. 1472, passed 11-16-1995; Ord. 1833, passed
11-18-2004; Ord. 1904, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 159.174 TERMINATION OF SPECIAL USE.
   Special uses authorized pursuant to this chapter shall terminate in the
event the use of any building or premises is discontinued or revised or the
normal operation stopped or revised for a period of six months, or in the event
the owner of the property involved, as stated in the application designated in
§
159.172, shall transfer or convey the ownership interest, whether by deed,
lease, devise or other means; however, the termination of a special use
applicable to property shall not prevent a subsequent application for a similar
or different special use.
(Ord. 1833, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 159.175 SPECIAL USE CONDITIONS AND FEES.
   As a condition of the granting of the special use, the Mayor and Board of
Trustees may impose a condition or fee upon the granting of the use to either
limit or ameliorate the negative economic or other impact of the special use or
permit the negative economic impact on the finances of the village by reason of
the granting of the special use.
(Ord. 1833, passed 11-18-2004)
COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT
§ 159.190 PLAN.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land, comprising an area of more
than four acres, may submit to the Plan Commission a plan for the use and
development of the land primarily for commercial purposes. The proposed
development plans shall be submitted to the Village Plan Commission for
examination, study and report and for a public hearing.
   (B)   If the Village Plan Commission approves the development plan, the
plan, plot and plat, together with the recommendations of the Village Plan
Commission, shall be embodied in a report to the Village Board stating the
reasons for the approval of the plan and application and specific evidence and
facts showing that the proposed commercial development plan has considered and
made provisions for the following essential elements:
      (1)   The commercial uses included in the plan are limited to those
permitted in the Commercial District;
      (2)   The entire development is designed as a single architectural unit,
with appropriate landscape architectural treatment of the entire unit area;
      (3)   At least twice the gross floor area of the stores to be included
within the development, plus one vehicle parking space for each five seats in
any theater, bowling alley or other place of congregation included within the
plan, is provided in off-street parking area, which are integral parts of the
design of the unit plan;
      (4)   The appropriate use of property adjacent to the area included in
the plan will be fully safeguarded; and
      (5)   The plan is consistent with the intent of this part, to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (C)   If the Village Board approves the proposed commercial development
plan, permits shall be issued, even though the use of the land, the location of
the buildings to be erected in the area and the yards and open spaces provided
in the plan do not conform in certain respects to the regulations for the
district in which the development is to be located.
(Prior Code, § 9B-8-1)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 159.210 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Building Commissioner who is
hereby empowered and it shall be his or her duty to administer this chapter in
conjunction with the administration of the portions of the general ordinances
of the village as are commonly designated as the Building Code in a manner as
to facilitate their joint administration.
   (B)   For the purpose of enforcing this chapter, the authority vested in him
or her under the Building Code is hereby declared to be vested in him or her
under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-1)
§ 159.211 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT; PLAT REQUIRED.
   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plat in
duplicate, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built
on, the size of the building to be erected and other information as may be
necessary to provide the enforcement of this chapter. A careful record of these
applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the Building
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-2)
§ 159.212 OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Certificates required.
      (1)   Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use or
occupancy of land, nor any change of use or occupancy in any existing building
shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner. Every
certificate of occupancy shall state that the new occupancy complies with all
provisions of this chapter, except for variations granted by the Village Board.
      (2)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required of all nonconforming
uses of land or buildings by the passage of this chapter. Application for such
certificates of occupancy for nonconforming uses shall be filed with the
Building Commissioner by the owner or lessee of the land or building occupied
by the nonconforming use within one year from the effective date hereof. It
shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to issue a certificate of
occupancy for nonconforming use. Any use which does not conform with the use
regulations of the district in which it is located and for which any occupancy
permit has not been obtained in conformity with the requirements of this
division (A)(2) shall be presumed to be operating in violation of this chapter
and the use shall thereupon be abated.
   (B)   Application for certificate; issuance; fees. Certificates of occupancy
shall be applied for at the same time that the building permit is applied for
and shall be issued within seven days after the erection or alteration of the
building shall have been completed in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. A fee of $25 shall be charged for each original certificate and a fee
of $1 for each copy thereof.
   (C)   Records kept, public information. A record of all certificates of
occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Commissioner, and
copies shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the land or in a building affected by the certificate of
occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-3)
§ 159.213 APPEALS.
   (A)   Initiation of appeals. An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of
Appeals by any person, or by an officer, department, board or bureau of the
village aggrieved by a decision of the Building Commissioner. The appeal shall
be taken within 14 days from the date of the Building Commissioner’s decision
by filing with the Building Commissioner and with the Zoning Board a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Building Commissioner shall,
forthwith, transmit to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Building Commissioner
certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been
filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, the
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property; in
which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or court of record on application
and on notice to the Building Commissioner and on due cause shown.
   (C)   Hearing; decisions. The Zoning Board shall select a reasonable time
and place for the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the
parties and shall render a decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay.
Any person may appear and testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly
authorized agent or attorney.
   (D)   Fee. A fee of $500 shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time the
notice of appeal is filed; the fee to be transmitted to the Village Treasurer
to the credit of the General Corporate Fund of the village. If the Board rules
in favor of the appellant, the fee shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-4) (Ord. 744, passed 6-7-1979; Ord. 745, passed 6-7-1979;
Ord. 1904, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 159.214 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Interpretations. A variation of the provisions of this chapter is the
allowance of a specific change of a requirement of this chapter for a specific
case. A variation shall not change or alter the provisions of this chapter, nor
should it be considered an amendment hereto.
   (B)   Public hearing; notice. No recommendation for variation shall be made
by the Zoning Board of Appeals, except in a specific case and after a public
hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals. A notice of the time and place of
the public hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation in the
village at least once, not more than 30, nor less than 15, days before the
hearing. This notice shall contain the particular location for which the
variation is requested as well as a brief statement of what the proposed
variation consists of.
   (C)   Fee and procedure. Same as for amendments.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-5) (Ord. 1904, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 159.215 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments authorized; deposit; summary of procedures.
      (1)   The regulations or districts established by this chapter may be
amended by ordinance. Application for amendment shall be made to the office of
the Village Clerk on a form therefor provided and shall be accompanied by a
deposit of $500. All expenses incurred by the village in the process of
rezoning property shall be paid from the deposit. Any unused portion shall be
returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Before any amendment shall be considered by the Village Board, the
request for amendment shall be heard by the Plan Commission for the purpose of
making a report and recommendation to the Village Board, but the report and
recommendation shall be made only after holding a public hearing in relation
thereto at which parties interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be
heard.
      (3)   Application for rezoning as provided by this chapter shall be
accompanied by a deposit of $500. All expenses incurred by the village in the
process of considering the application for rezoning shall be paid from the
deposit. Any unused portion shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. Notice shall be given of the time and place of the
hearing, not more than 30 days, nor less than 15, days before the hearing, by
publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or more newspapers having a
general circulation in the village.
   (C)   Consent of and notice to property owners.
      (1)   The application for amendment shall be signed by a real property
owner in the area affected. In the event that the application includes property
other than that owned by the applicant, in addition to the applicant’s
property, the applicant shall file, on a form provided by the Village Clerk, a
petition in favor of the request signed by the real property owners
representing at least 75% of the area to be included in the application.
      (2)   In the event that the application includes property owned by more
than one owner, the Plan Commission shall notify, by letter, all property
owners in the area included within the application of the contemplated change.
The letter shall be postmarked not later than one week prior to the Plan
Commission hearing.
   (D)   Protests; decisions by Board of Trustees. In case of a written protest
against any proposed amendment of the regulations or district, signed and
acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered or by
the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley
therefrom or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the Village Clerk,
the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds of
the members of the Village Board.
   (E)   Requests for amendments by Plan Commission. The Plan Commission may,
on its own motion, after a public hearing, submit to the Village Board any
requests for amendment, and the action shall satisfy the requirements of this
section with respect to a report and recommendation by the Plan Commission.
   (F)   Decisions by the Village Board. No proposed amendment, supplement or
change shall be passed except for the favorable vote of two-thirds of the
members of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-6) (Ord. 1473, passed 11-16-1995)
§ 159.216 PREVENTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In case any building or structure is constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Building Commissioner (or any owner
or tenant of real property in the same contiguous zoning district as the
buildings or structures in question), in addition to other remedies, may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings:
      (1)   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance or use;
      (2)   To prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land;
      (3)   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about
the premises; and
      (4)   To restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (B)   When any action is instituted by an owner or tenant, a copy of the
complaint shall be served upon the Chairperson of the Village Zoning Board of
Appeals, at the time the suit is begun. No action may be maintained until the
notice has been given.
   (C)   In any action or proceeding for a purpose mentioned in this section,
the court with jurisdiction of the action or proceeding has the power and, in
its discretion, may issue a restraining order or a preliminary injunction as a
permanent injunction, upon the terms and under the conditions as will do
justice and enforce the purpose of this section.
   (D)   If a permanent injunction is decreed in any action or proceeding for a
purpose mentioned in this section, the court, in its decree, may, in its
discretion, allow the plaintiff a reasonable sum in money for the services of
the plaintiff’s attorney. This allowance shall be a part of the costs of
litigation assessed against the defendant and may be recovered as such.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-7) (Ord. 746, passed 6-7-1979)
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter or failing to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $750 for
each offense. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 9B-9-8) (Ord. 706, passed 9-21-1978)
CHAPTER 160: TEMPORARY USES
Section
   
160.01   Temporary shelter
   
160.02   Temporary storage units
   
160.03   Drop box provisions
   
160.04   Permit or sticker required
 
   
160.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative adjudication of violations of Village Code, see
Ch. 11
§ 160.01 TEMPORARY SHELTER.
   (A)   When a natural disaster renders any residence unfit for habitation,
the temporary use of a mobile home or recreational vehicle located on the
parcel is permitted during the rehabilitation or construction of a new
residence.
   (B)   The maximum length of the permit shall be six months, but may be
extended by the Building Department.
   (C)   The temporary shelter shall be removed from the parcel after an
occupancy permit has been issued for the new or rehabilitated residence.
(Ord. 2040, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
160.99
§ 160.02 TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS.
   (A)   Permitted units. Temporary storage units that are not specifically
regulated by (sections 1 through 10) of this section may be allowed subject to
the following:
      (1)   The maximum total unit size shall be 768 cubic feet for residential
zoning districts and a maximum of 1,000 cubic feet per 10,000 square feet of
existing principal building area for non-residential zoning districts. A
maximum unit height of eight feet above grade shall be allowed in all zoning
districts;
      (2)   Units shall be located on private property with a minimum lot line
setback of five feet from any lot line;
      (3)   The maximum time allowed for a temporary storage unit shall be 30
days from the day of placement on the site;
      (4)   Residential waste collection/garbage enclosures are regulated by
the Village Code;
      (5)   Paper recycling containers/paper retrievers are permitted for
governmental uses and schools.
   (B)   Prohibited units. The following temporary storage units are
prohibited:
      (1)   Temporary storage units for materials that emit noxious odors or
hazardous substances;
      (2)   Temporary storage units in outdoor areas used for the collection of
clothing, small household items, books, toys, hygienic materials, food,
biohazards and other similar miscellaneous products and items, except as
provided in §
160.03.
   (C)   Outdoor storage containers (non-residential).
      (1)   Temporary storage units, nonresidential outdoor storage is
permitted on parcels that have a minimum area of 25,000 square feet and a
minimum road frontage of 250 feet.
         (a)   Storage containers shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from
the nearest street right-of-way.
         (b)   A drawing of the location of the storage container(s) must
accompany any request for outdoor storage container(s).
         (c)   The maximum length of the permit shall be two months in any
single year. Limit one permit per year.
         (d)   Not more than 10% of the required parking spaces may be used for
the outdoor storage container(s).
         (e)   Permit is required with a $100 fee.
(Ord. 2040, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2702, passed 11-16-2023) Penalty, see §
160.99
§ 160.03 DROP BOX PROVISIONS.
   A drop box means a box intended to receive donations or deposits of small
household items, books, toys and clothing. No drop box shall be operated,
placed and utilized, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)    The owner or operator receives written permission from the owner of
the property to place the box.
   (B)   The box is operated by a charity, having a § 501(c)(3) designation by
the Internal Revenue Service.
   (C)   The box is placed in a commercial zoning district.
   (D)   The box is cleaned and emptied weekly or when fully loaded.
   (E)   The box is not within 1,000 feet of another drop box.
   (F)   Deposits in the drop box shall only be permitted and accessible when
boxes are attended.
   (G)   The owner or operator posts a sign indicating use of the box when
unattended is prohibited.
(Ord. 2040, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2566, passed 8-20-2020) Penalty, see §
160.99
§ 160.04 PERMIT OR STICKER REQUIRED.
   Each drop box shall require a permit and village sticker, renewable annually
at a cost of $100.
(Ord. 2040, passed 4-21-2011; Ord. 2200, passed 12-4-2014) Penalty, see §
160.99
§ 160.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of
$100. Each day a drop box is operated in violation of this chapter shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2040, passed 4-21-2011)
CHAPTER 161: VACANT BUILDINGS
Section
   
161.01   Declaration of policy
   
161.02   Other ordinances
   
161.03   Definitions
   
161.04   Determination
   
161.05   Appeal of determination
   
161.06   Obligation to register
   
161.07   Approval of plan
   
161.08   Authority to modify building plans; right to appeal
   
161.09   Failure to comply with a building plan
   
161.10   Other enforcement
   
161.11   Certification
   
161.12   Boarding of buildings
   
161.13   Severability
§ 161.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of the citizens of the village by the enactment of this chapter,
which:
      (1)   Establishes a program for the identification, registration and
regulation of buildings that are vacant or that become vacant on and after the
effective date of this chapter; and
      (2)   Determines the responsibilities of owners of vacant buildings; and
      (3)   Provides for the administration, enforcement (including the
abatement of public nuisances) and imposition of penalties for violations of
this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall be liberally construed to carry out its intended
purposes.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.02 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other
applicable ordinances, codes, statutes, laws, orders, rules or regulations that
prescribe standards for the subject matter of this chapter. In the event of a
conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any other ordinance, code,
statute, law, order, rule or regulation, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The words and terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning. The use of any term in the present tense shall include the
future and past tense of the term, when applicable, and all terms used in the
singular shall include the plural and all words used in the masculine gender
shall extend to and apply to the feminine gender, when applicable.
      BOARDED BUILDING. A building that has, in a manner intended to be
temporary or permanent, some material (whether said material is opaque, solid
or transparent) affixed to any or all openings, windows or doors that were
present for the purpose of light, ventilation or egress, from the interior or
exterior of the building, for the purpose of securing or preventing access or
damage to the building or its components.
      BUILDING. Any structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering
any occupancy.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner or a designee of the
same.
      DANGEROUS BUILDING.
         (a)   All buildings or structures that have any or all of the
following defects:
            1.   Those buildings or structures that have improperly distributed
loads upon the floors or roof or on which the same are overloaded, or which
have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purposes used, imposed
loads or for the intended design load.
            2.   Those buildings or structures that have been damaged by fire,
wind or other causes so as to have become dangerous to life, limb or property
of the occupants or others.
            3.   Those buildings or structures that have parts thereof that are
so attached that they may suddenly fall and injure persons or damage property.
            4.   Those buildings or structures that are in a state of
dilapidation, deterioration or decay; have faulty construction; lack
ventilation; are overcrowded; are open, vacant or abandoned; are in danger of
collapse or failure; or are dangerous to anyone on or near the premises.
            5.   Those buildings or structures that have sewerage or plumbing
facilities that are backed up or otherwise unsanitary.
            6.   Those buildings or structures that have been designated by the
village as unsafe for human habitation.
            7.   Those buildings or structures that are fire hazards, lack code
compliant means of ingress and egress or lack required operational smoke
detectors.
            8.   Those buildings or structures that are visibly unsafe or
unsecured so as to endanger life, limb or property.
            9.   Those buildings or structures from which the electrical,
plumbing, heating or other facilities that are required by this code or other
applicable codes, laws, statutes, orders, rules or regulations have been
removed, disconnected, destroyed or which cannot safely perform their intended
purpose.
            10.   Those buildings or structures to which the utility services
have been removed, disconnected, tampered with, destroyed or interrupted.
            11.   Those buildings or structures that have become unsanitary,
are vermin-infested or insect-infested or are littered with refuse.
            12.   Those buildings or structures that endanger life or property
by the presence of toxic or flammable fumes, gases, vapors or materials.
            13.   Any building that is clearly capable of being a fire hazard
or noticeably unsafe or insecure so as to endanger life, limb or property.
         (b)   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS are hereby declared public nuisances.
      OWNER.
         (a)   Any person, agent, operator, firm, corporation or entity:
            1.   Having a legal or equitable interest in the property;
            2.   Recorded in the official records of the state, county or
village as holding title to the property; or
            3.   Otherwise having control of the property.
         (c)   The term OWNER shall include the guardian of an estate of any
such person and the executor or administrator of an estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      PERSON. Includes a corporation, partnership or other entity as well as an
individual.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structure or
building located thereon.
      PUBLIC NUISANCES. Includes the following:
         (a)   Any building that would be declared a public nuisance at common
law, under the Illinois Compiled Statutes or under this code due to its
physical condition or the use thereof;
         (b)   Any building or appurtenance that would be declared an
attractive nuisance to children due to the physical condition, use or occupancy
of the building or the appurtenance. The foregoing shall include, without
limitation, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations and unsafe fences
and structures;
         (c)   Any building that has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing
facilities;
         (d)   Any building designated by the Building Commissioner as unsafe
for human habitation or use;
         (e)   Any building that is unsanitary, is littered with rubbish or
garbage or that has an uncontrolled growth of weeds;
         (f)   Any building that:
            1.   Is dangerous, in a state of dilapidation, deterioration or
decay;
            2.   Has faulty construction;
            3.   Is open or vacant and the doors, windows or other openings are
boarded up or secured, by any means other than conventional methods used in the
design of the building or permitted for new construction of similar type; or
            4.   Is damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide shelter, is
in danger of collapse or failure and is dangerous to anyone on or near the
premises; or
         (g)   Any building defined as a dangerous building in this section, as
the same may be amended.
      UNOCCUPIED BUILDING.
         (a)   A building or portion thereof that lacks the habitual presence
of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises, including
buildings ordered vacated by the Building Commissioner pursuant to authority
granted to him or her by this code or any other applicable ordinance, code,
statute, law, order, rule or regulation.
         (b)   In determining whether a building is “unoccupied,” the Building
Commissioner may consider, among other things, the following factors:
            1.   Whether substantially all lawful residential or business
activity has ceased at the building;
            2.   The percentage of the overall square footage of occupied to
unoccupied space or the overall number of occupied to unoccupied units;
            3.   Whether the building is substantially devoid of contents and
the condition and value of fixtures or personal property located within the
building;
            4.   Whether the building lacks utility services including, without
limitation, water, sewer, electric and/or natural gas services;
            5.   Whether the building is the subject of a foreclosure action;
            6.   Whether the building is actively for sale as part of a
contractual agreement and whether the building lacks or displays “for sale,”
“for rent” or similar signage; and
            7.   The presence or recurrence of uncorrected code violations.
      VACANT BUILDING.
         (a)   A building or portion of a building that is:
            1.   Unoccupied and unsecured;
            2.   Unoccupied and secured by boards or other similar means;
            3.   Unoccupied and meets the definition of a dangerous building;
            4.   Unoccupied and condemned by the Building Commissioner pursuant
to the applicable provisions of this code or other applicable ordinances,
codes, statutes, laws, orders, rules and/or regulations;
            5.   Unoccupied and has multiple code violations;
            6.   Unoccupied and the building has or its premises have been the
site of unlawful activity within the previous six months;
            7.   Condemned by the Building Commissioner and unlawfully
occupied;
            8.   Unoccupied for over 90 calendar days and during which time the
Building Commissioner has issued an order to correct public nuisance conditions
and the same have not been corrected in compliance with the provisions of this
code; or
            9.   Unoccupied for over two years.
         (b)   VACANT BUILDINGS shall not include unoccupied buildings that are
undergoing construction, renovation or rehabilitation and are in compliance
with all applicable ordinances, codes, statutes, laws, orders, rules and
regulations, and for which the construction, renovation or rehabilitation is
proceeding diligently to completion.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.04 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Within 60 calendar days after the effective date of this chapter, the
Building Commissioner shall evaluate all buildings in the village that he or
she believes to be unoccupied as of the effective date of this chapter and
shall make a determination for each as to whether the building is a vacant
building as defined in §
161.03. The Building Commissioner may determine that a building that meets any
of the criteria set forth in §
161.03 is not to be regulated under this chapter for a stated period if, upon
consideration of reliable, substantiated and sufficient evidence, he or she
determines that regulation of the building under this chapter would not serve
the public health, welfare and safety. The determination shall be in writing
and shall contain written findings in support of his or her decision, including
the factual basis for the determination. For buildings the Building
Commissioner determines to be vacant buildings, he or she shall, within ten
business days of making that determination, send notice of his or her written
determination, containing the factual findings, to the last taxpayer of record
listed on the most recent Cook County tax roll. This notice of determination
shall be sent via first class United States mail, with proper postage prepaid.
Failure of delivery shall not excuse a person from complying with this chapter.
The Building Commissioner may personally serve or cause personal service of the
notice of determination. Any person making such service shall execute an
affidavit attesting to the facts of service. The Building Commissioner shall
maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each notice of determination sent.
   (B)   The notice shall specify a date and time on which the owner shall
allow for a code compliance inspection of the interior of the vacant building
to determine the extent of compliance with this code and other applicable
ordinances, codes, statutes, laws, orders, rules and regulations, including
village and state building, health, fire, water and sewer codes. The owner
shall pay an inspection fee as set forth in §
150.17 at the time that the inspection is scheduled. All unpaid fees shall be
liens upon the premises.
   (C)   The notice shall contain a statement of the obligations of the owner
of the vacant building, a copy of the registration form the owner is required
to file pursuant to §
161.06, and a notice of the owner’s right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
determination.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.05 APPEAL OF DETERMINATION.
   (A)   An owner of a building determined by the Building Commissioner to be a
vacant building may appeal that determination to the Village Administrative
Hearing Officer. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
Village Administrative Hearing Officer within 15 calendar days of the date of
the mailing of the notice of determination. The filing of an appeal stays the
owner’s obligation to register his or her building as required by §
161.06. The appeal shall contain the following information: 1) a complete
statement of the reasons the owner disputes the Building Commissioner’s
determination; 2) specific facts in support thereof; and 3) all evidence the
owner relies upon to support the appeal. The Village Administrative Hearing
Officer at the next regularly convened session of the Crestwood administrative
adjudication hearing session shall decide the appeal on the basis of facts
presented by the owner in his or her written appeal and the Building
Commissioner’s written determination.
   (B)   The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to
persuade the Village Administrative Hearing Officer that if the evidence had
been known to the Building Commissioner at the time the Building Commissioner
made the determination, the Building Commissioner would more likely than not
have determined that the subject building was not a vacant building.
   (C)   The Village Administrative Hearing Officer shall deliver its written
decision to the owner or the representative at the hearing or within ten
business days of its receipt of the appeal. The Village Administrative Hearing
Officer may, but is not required to, seek additional information from the
owner. The Village Administrative Hearing Officer may, upon written notice
thereof to the owner, take ten additional business days to decide the appeal if
it determines that such additional time is required for consideration of the
appeal.
   (D)   An owner who wishes to challenge applicability of this chapter to his
or her building without the Building Commissioner’s determination having been
made, shall set forth specific facts to support the non-applicability in
writing to the Building Commissioner. In the event the Building Commissioner
determines that the subject building is a vacant building, the owner shall have
the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s determination to the Village
Administrative Hearing Officer, as provided for herein.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.06 OBLIGATION TO REGISTER.
   (A)   The owner of a building who knows or from the facts and circumstances
should know that his or her building is or has become a vacant building after
the effective date of this chapter, or the owner of a building determined by
the Building Commissioner, at any time, to be a vacant building, or the owner
of a building whose appeal from the Building Commissioner’s determination has
been denied by the Village Administrative Hearing Officer shall take the
actions provided for in this section within 15 calendar days after:
      (1)   The date of the Building Commissioner’s notice of determination,
      (2)   The occurrence of facts that would cause a reasonable person to
believe that the building is a vacant building, or
      (3)   A denial of an appeal, whichever is applicable.
   (B)   Registration does not exonerate the owner from compliance with all
applicable provisions of this code and all other applicable ordinances, codes,
statutes, laws, orders, rules and regulations, nor does it preclude any of the
actions the village is authorized to take pursuant to this chapter or elsewhere
in this code.
   (C)   Registration requirements.
      (1)   The owner of a vacant building must register the building with the
Building Commissioner, on a form provided by the Building Commissioner
(attached to Ord. 2215 as Exhibit A), and pay the $200 nonprorated vacant
building registration fee. The form shall minimally include the name, street
address and telephone number of the owner; the case name and number of any
litigation pending concerning or affecting the building, including bankruptcy
cases; and the name, street address, and telephone number of all persons with
any legal interest in the building or the premises. The form shall require the
owner to identify a natural person 21 years of age or older who maintains a
permanent address in Cook County, Illinois, to accept service on behalf of the
owner with respect to any notices the village sends pursuant to this chapter or
service of process in any proceeding commenced to enforce any provision of this
chapter, and file with the Building Commissioner on the registration form, the
name, address and telephone number of that person. A street address is
required. A post office box is not an acceptable address;
      (2)   The owner of a vacant building must renew the vacant building
registration each year on the anniversary date of the first filing for the time
the building remains vacant and pay the required $100 annual fee; and
      (3)   The owner of a vacant building must file an amended registration
within 15 calendar days of any change in the information contained in the
annual registration. A new registration is required for any change in ownership
whatsoever.
   (D)   Notice; inspection.
      (1)   The form shall require the owner to indicate his or her “acceptance
of notice by posting” consenting to service of notices sent or required to be
sent, pursuant to this chapter, by posting on the building if the owner fails
to renew the registration if required or fails to maintain up-to-date
information regarding the person designated to accept notice and service of
process with the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   The owner shall allow for a code compliance inspection of the
interior of the vacant building and shall pay an inspection fee as set forth in
§
150.17 at the time that the inspection is scheduled. Such inspection will
determine the extent of compliance with applicable ordinances, codes, statutes,
laws, orders, rules and regulations, including building codes, health, fire,
water and sewer codes. The village shall send the inspection report to the
owner within 30 calendar days.
   (E)   Insurance. The owner shall obtain liability insurance and maintain
such insurance for as long as the building is vacant, and file evidence of such
insurance with the Building Commissioner. The insurance policy shall be in the
following amounts; $500,000 for a vacant residential building containing one to
three units; $750,000 for a vacant residential building containing four to 11
units; $1,000,000 for a vacant residential building containing 12 to 48 units;
$2,000,000 for a vacant residential building containing more than 48 units; and
$2,000,000 for a vacant manufacturing, industrial, storage or nonresidential
commercial building.
   (F)   Vacant building plan. At the time a building is registered as required
herein, the owner shall submit a vacant building plan. The Building
Commissioner may prescribe a form for the plan. If the owner fails to submit
the plan as provided for by this chapter, the Building Commissioner may
determine the plan. The plan shall minimally contain the following:
      (1)   A plan of action to repair any doors, windows or other openings
that are boarded up or otherwise secured by any means other than conventional
methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new construction of
similar type. The proposed repair shall result in openings being secured by
conventional methods used in the design of the building or by methods permitted
for new construction of similar type with boards being removed. Boarding shall
be accomplished with materials and methods prescribed by the Building
Commissioner and available in the Building Department. The owner shall maintain
the building in an enclosed and secure state until the building is reoccupied
or made available for immediate occupancy. If the owner demonstrates that
securing of the building will provide adequate protection to the public, the
Building Commissioner may waive the requirement of an enclosure;
      (2)   For buildings and premises that are determined by the Building
Commissioner to be or contain public nuisances, as defined in §
161.03, then the vacant building plan shall contain a plan of action to remedy
such public nuisance(s);
      (3)   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the Building Commissioner;
      (4)   When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition;
      (5)   A plan of action to maintain the building and premises thereof in
conformance with this chapter;
      (6)   A plan of action, with a time schedule, identifying the date the
building will be habitable and occupied or offered for occupancy or sale. The
time schedule shall include date(s) of commencement and completion of all
actions required to achieve habitability. No plan that provides for compliance
with this chapter or, which will not, as determined by the Building
Commissioner, achieve such compliance, within six months, in the case of a
vacant boarded building, and two years, in the case of a vacant, un-boarded,
and code compliant building will be approved;
      (7)   All premises upon which unoccupied buildings or vacant buildings
are located, and their exteriors, shall at all times be maintained in
compliance with this code; and
      (8)   Exterior lighting according to standards established by the
Building Commissioner and available from the Building Commissioner or from the
Building Department.
   (G)   Security guard service. On written notice of the Building
Commissioner, an owner shall provide bonded, licensed and insured security
guard service at the building between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Such
service shall remain in place until the Building Commissioner gives written
notice that the service is no longer required. Such service shall be required
when the Building Commissioner makes a written determination that the vacant
building constitutes a fire hazard, is otherwise dangerous to human life or the
public welfare or involves illegal or improper use, occupancy, or maintenance,
under such conditions that boarding and securing the building are insufficient
to prevent the actual or threatened harm.
   (H)   Signage. Signage shall be affixed to every building that is boarded
up. Such signage shall be no smaller than two feet by two feet, shall comply
with the village’s sign regulations and shall contain the following
information: the name, address and telephone number of the owner and, for
buildings that are the subject of a foreclosure action, the name, address and
telephone number of the plaintiff and the plaintiff’s attorney handling the
foreclosure action, if any. The sign must be placed so that its message is
legible from the public way.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015) Penalty, see §
161.99
§ 161.07 APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   (A)   Review of the vacant building plan. The Building Commissioner shall
review the proposed vacant building plan in accordance with the standards set
forth below. The Building Commissioner shall send notice to the owner of his or
her determination regarding whether or not the building is a vacant building.
   (B)   Standards for plan approval. In considering the appropriateness of a
vacant building plan, the Building Commissioner shall include the following in
his or her consideration and shall make written findings as to each of the
following:
      (1)   The purposes of this chapter and goals of the Village Board to
minimize the time buildings located within the village are boarded up or
otherwise left vacant;
      (2)   The impact that the building and the proposed plan have on
adjoining property;
      (3)   The length of time the building has been vacant;
      (4)   The presence of public nuisances on the property; and
      (5)   The likelihood that the plan or portion(s) thereof will prevent or
ameliorate the condition(s) it is designed to address.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.08 AUTHORITY TO MODIFY BUILDING PLANS; RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   The Building Commissioner shall, upon notice to the owner of a vacant
building, have the right to modify the vacant building plan by modifying the
dates of performance, the proposed methods of action or by imposing additional
requirements consistent with this chapter as he or she deems necessary to
protect the public health, safety or general welfare.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.09 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH A BUILDING PLAN.
   Failure to have an approved building plan within 30 calendar days of filing
the registration form or failure to comply with an approved vacant building
plan shall constitute a violation of this chapter and subject the owner of the
building to the penalties set forth in this chapter and to any and all remedies
that the village may avail itself of including, without limitation, an action
to compel correction of property maintenance violations.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.10 OTHER ENFORCEMENT.
   The registration of a vacant building shall not preclude action by the
village to demolish or to take other action against the building pursuant to
other provisions of this chapter, this code or any other applicable ordinance,
code, statute, law, order, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.11 CERTIFICATION.
   Prior to occupying any vacant building, a person must obtain a certificate
of code compliance for vacant buildings from the Building Department and pay,
in full, all unpaid water bills or other fees imposed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015) Penalty, see §
161.99
§ 161.12 BOARDING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village that boarding is a temporary solution
to prevent unauthorized entry into a vacant building and that boarded buildings
are a public nuisance. A vacant building may not remain boarded longer than six
months, unless an extension of that time is part of a plan approved by the
Building Commissioner.
   (B)   A vacant building that is not boarded, is in compliance with this code
and all other applicable ordinances, codes, statutes, laws, orders, rules and
regulations and for which boarding is determined by the Building Commissioner,
based on police reports, resident complaints and other information of a type
considered reliable by reasonable persons, to not require boarding to prevent
unauthorized entry may not remain vacant for more than two years without an
approved plan for the occupancy, sale, demolition or other disposition of the
building.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015) Penalty, see §
161.99
§ 161.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 161.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of not less than $100 per day, per violation and not more
than $750 per day, per violation, in addition to any other legal or equitable
remedies available to the village. Such other remedies include, but are not
limited to, injunctive relief, application to a court of competent jurisdiction
for a receiver, instituting demolition proceedings, instituting a condemnation
action, contracting for the repair or the purchase of the premises and/or
foreclosure of any lien the village may have on the building or premises.
   (B)   Each day that any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   The village may enforce this chapter through its administrative
adjudication system or through the court system.
   (D)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the village from immediately
condemning a building or taking other immediate action upon a determination
that the building is a public nuisance or poses an imminent danger to the
occupants of the building or the public health, safety and welfare in
accordance with the provisions of this code or any other applicable ordinance,
code, statute, law, order, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 2215, passed 3-5-2015)
CHAPTER 162: ADULT-USE CANNABIS
Section
   
162.01   Definitions
   
162.02   Purpose and applicability
   
162.03   Special use
   
162.04   Adult-use cannabis facility components
   
162.05   Adult-use cannabis craft grower
   
162.06   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center
   
162.07   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
   
162.08   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization
   
162.09   Adult-use cannabis processing organization
   
162.10   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization
   
162.11   Additional requirements
   
162.12   Co-location of cannabis business establishments
§ 162.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.
101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027),
as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.02 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   It is the intent and purpose of this section to provide regulations
regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of adult-use cannabis
occurring within the corporate limits of the Village of Crestwood. Such
facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided
below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state
or local regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.03 SPECIAL USES.
   Adult-use cannabis business establishment facilities, as defined herein,
requiring approval of a special use in the respective districts in which they
are requested shall be processed in accordance with §§
159.170 to
159.175 (Special Uses) of this Title XV (Zoning Ordinance) and §
162.04 (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components) as provided herein.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.04 ADULT-USE CANNABIS FACILITY COMPONENTS.
   In determining compliance with §§
159.170 to
159.175 (Special Uses) of this Title XV (Zoning Ordinance), the following
components of the Adult-Use Cannabis Facility shall be evaluated based on the
entirety of the circumstances affecting the particular property in the context
of the existing and intended future use of the properties.
   (A)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
   (B)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, and security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
   (C)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
   (D)   Anticipated parking demand based on the parking required by the
Village of Crestwood Zoning Ordinance and available private parking supply.
   (E)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
   (F)   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
   (G)   Proposed signage plan.
   (H)   Compliance with all requirements provided in §
162.05 (Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower); §
162.06 (Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center); §
162.07 (Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization); §
162.08 (Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization); §
162.09 (Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization); or §
162.10 (Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization), as applicable.
   (I)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with §§
159.170 to
159.175 (Special Uses) of this Title XV (Zoning Ordinance).
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.05 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
   (C)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis craft
grower shall be classified as "Light Industrial" per §
159.141 (Schedule of Parking Requirements: Industrial Uses), provided, however,
that the village may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed through §
159.141 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.06 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
   (C)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Cultivation Centers shall be classified as "Light Industrial" per §
159.141 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Industrial Uses),
provided, however, that the village may require that additional parking be
provided as a result of the analysis completed through §
159.141 Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use herein.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.07 ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following.
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing organization shall
also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as authorized in
division (E) below in the same tenant space.
   (D)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (E)   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by §
162.11 (Additional Requirements) shall also reflect adequate provisions to
respond to disruptive conduct and over consumption. The on-site consumption
permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked following
notice and hearing as provided in the Village of Crestwood Village Code.
   (F)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "retail store" per §
159.141 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Commercial Uses) of the
Village of Crestwood Village Code, provided, however, that the village may
require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
159.141 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
   (G)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this chapter and the State of Illinois Act as amended from time
to time, and regulation as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.08 ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis infuser
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following.
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by an
infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Light Industrial" per §
159.141 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Commercial Uses) of the
Village of Crestwood Village Code, provided, however, that the village may
require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
159.141 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.09 ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following.
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
processing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the processing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Light Industrial" per §
159.141 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Commercial Uses) of the
Village of Crestwood Village Code, provided, however, that the Village may
require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through §
159.141 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.10 ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use transporting organization
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Light Industrial" per §
159.141 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: of the Village of
Crestwood Village Code, provided, however, that the village may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §
159.141(Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.11 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the special use permit, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis business
establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be determined
based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use
cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent
with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 162.12 CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The village may approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization with an adult-use cannabis craft grower center or an adult-use
cannabis infuser organization, or both, subject to the provisions of the act
and the special use criteria within the Village of Crestwood Village Code. In a
co-location, the floor space requirements of §
162.07(C) and §
162.08(C) shall not apply, but the co-located establishments shall be the sole
use of the tenant space.
(Ord. 2511, passed 8-15-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                              Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11                  10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29                  10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                     10.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65                 39.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10                39.03,
                                        39.04
Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.        98.26
Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9                   111.02
Ch. 35, Act 120                         111.01
Ch. 40, Act 5                           32.008
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.       34.15
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.         34.18
Ch. 50, Act 705, § 8.1                 34.18
Ch. 50, Act 705, § 8.2                 34.18
Ch. 50, Act 710, § 2                   34.18
Ch. 50, Act 720, §§ 1 - 6             34.18
Ch. 65, Act 5                           10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.         32.027
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2                 10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                 10.99;
                                        151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1               10.99,
                                        111.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq.     11.02;
                                        11.08
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-30-5            32.180
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-4                 32.206
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.1               32.206
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.1 - 8-2-9.11  32.205
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.2               32.207
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14                111.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.1              111.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.2              111.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.3              111.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.4              111.02;
                                        111.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-23               111.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24               111.08
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.    33.050
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-2.1-4 et seq.    11.08
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-10-1 et seq.     111.04
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12              151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2               151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8               151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2               151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq.   11.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, Art. 11, Div. 95         33.093
Ch. 210, Act 45                         125.03
Ch. 210, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.         125.19
Ch. 210, Act 45, § 3-119               125.19
Ch. 210, Act 85, § 3                   125.02
Ch. 225, Act 65, § 50-10               125.02
Ch. 225, Act 70                         125.02
Ch. 225, Act 320, §§ 1 et seq.        115.20
Ch. 225, Act 325, §§ 1 et seq.        151.02
Ch. 225, Act 330, §§ 1 et seq.        151.02
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.         114.26
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.         114.01,
                                        114.03
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 - 85            114.04
Ch. 235, Act 5 et seq.                  112.51
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.23               112.25
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-33                 112.25
Ch. 410, Act 85, §§ 1 et seq.         120.01
Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.        133.04
Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.          151.02;
                                        151.03
Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.          151.02;
                                        151.03
Ch. 615, Act 5, § 18(g)                151.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.      11.02;
                                        70.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113                70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132                70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001            70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154.2              70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156                70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158                70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177                70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                10.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209                70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217                70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-204                80.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303                70.26
                                        11.03;
                                        11.07;
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 (Repealed)   11.12;
                                        80.04;
                                        80.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3 et seq.     80.02
                                        11.03;
                                        11.06;
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3             80.04;
                                        80.06;
                                        80.11;
                                        80.16
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(1)       80.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(f)          80.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306               80.42;
                                        80.44
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501               70.26
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1306              11.06;
                                        80.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-102               74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-103               74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-107               74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111               74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204               70.08
Ch. 720, Act 5                          70.26
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.        11.15
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(3) to (a)(11)112.33
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1.1               112.33
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3                 112.33
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 33E                  51.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 33E-4                51.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq.       70.26
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.        70.26 ;
                                        133.04
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 2                  70.26
Ch. 720, Act 570                        125.02
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.      70.26 ;
                                        133.04
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 100                70.26
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 302                125.03
Ch. 720, Act 646, §§ 1 et seq.        133.04
Ch. 725, Act 5, §§ 100-1 et seq.      111.99
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.      111.99
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203                80.16
                                        11.09;
                                        70.33;
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.      80.13;
                                        80.14;
                                        110.13
Ch. 735, Act 5, Art. XII                11.09
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)              39.04
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)              39.04
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                  151.09
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101                39.04
Ch. 810, Act 5                          11.09
Ch. 815, Act 333, §§ 1 et seq.        10.02
Ch. 820, Act 320, §§ 1 et seq.        Ch. 40
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2011 Code
Prior Code  2011 Code
1-3-2       10.02
1-4-2       10.99
1-4-3       10.99
1-4-4       10.99
1-4-5       10.99
1-5-1       32.025
1-5-2       32.026
1-5-3       32.027
1-5-4       32.028
1-6-1       31.01
1-6-2       31.02
1-6-3       31.03
1-6-4       31.04
1-6-5-(1)   31.05
1-6-5-(2)   31.06
1-6-5-(3)   31.07
1-6-5-(4)   31.08
1-6-5-(5)   31.09
1-6-5-(6)   31.10
1-6-5-(7)   31.11
1-6-5-(8)   31.12
1-6-5-(9)   31.13
1-6-6       31.14
1-7-1       32.001
1-7-2       32.002
1-7-3       32.003
1-7-4       32.004
1-7-5       32.005
1-7-6       32.006
1-7-7       32.007
1-7-8       32.008
1-7-9       32.009
1-7-10      32.010
1-7A-1      32.040
1-7A-2      32.041
1-7A-3      32.042
1-7A-4      32.043
1-7B-1      32.055
1-7B-2      32.056
1-7B-3      32.057
1-7C-1      32.070
1-7C-2      32.071
1-7C-3      32.072
1-7D-1      32.085
1-7D-2      32.086
1-7D-3      32.087
1-7E-1      32.100
1-7E-2      32.101
1-7E-3      32.102
1-7E-4      32.103
1-7F-1      32.115
1-7F-2      32.116
1-7F-3      32.117
1-8-1       33.110
1-8-2       33.111
1-9-1       37.01
1-9-2       37.02
1-9-3       37.03
1-9-4       37.04
1-9-5       37.05
1-9-6       37.06
1-11-1      30.01
1-11-2      30.02
1-11-3      30.03
2-1-1       33.001
2-1-2       33.002
2-1-3       33.003
2-2-1       33.015
2-2-2       33.016
2-2-3       33.017
2-2-4       33.018
2-4-2       33.030
2-4-3       33.031
2-4-4       33.032
2-4-5       33.033
2-6-1       33.050
2-6-2       33.051
2-6-3       33.052
2-6-4       33.053
2-6-5       33.054
2-6-6       33.055
2-7-1       33.070
2-7-2       33.071
2-7-3       33.072
3-1-1       110.01
3-1-2       110.02
3-1-3       110.03
3-1-4       110.04
3-1-5       110.05
3-1-6       110.06
3-1-7       110.07
3-1-8       110.08
3-1-9       110.09
3-1-10      110.10
3-1-11      110.11
3-1-12      110.12
3-1-13      110.13
3-1-14      110.99
3-2-1       111.01
3-2-2       111.02
3-2-3       111.03,
            111.99
3-2-4       111.04,
            111.99
3-4A-1      113.01
3-4A-2      113.02
3-4A-3      113.03
3-4A-4      113.04
3-4A-5      113.05
3-4A-6      113.06
3-4A-7      113.07
3-4A-8      113.08
3-4A-9      113.09
3-4A-11     113.99
3-4B-1      113.25
3-4B-2      113.26
3-4B-3      113.99
3-7A-1      115.01
3-7A-2      115.02
3-7A-3      115.03
3-7A-4      115.04
3-7A-5      115.05
3-7A-6      115.06
3-7A-7      115.07
3-7A-8      115.99
3-7B-1      115.20
3-7B-2      115.21
3-7B-3      115.22
3-7B-4      115.23
3-7B-5      115.24
3-7B-6      115.99
3-8-1       116.01
3-8-2       116.02
3-8-3       116.03
3-8-4       116.04
3-8-5       116.99
3-9-1       117.01
3-9-2       117.02
3-9-3       117.03
3-9-4       117.99
3-10-1      118.01
3-10-2      118.02
3-10-3      118.03
3-10-4      118.04
3-10-5      118.05
3-10-6      118.99
4-1-1       35.01
4-1-2       35.02
4-1-4       35.03
4-1-5       35.04
4-1-6       35.05
4-1-7       35.06
4-1-8       35.07
4-1-10      35.09
4-1-11      35.10
4-1A-1      35.25
4-1A-2      35.26
4-1A-3      35.27
4-1A-4      35.28
4-1A-5      35.29
4-1A-6      35.30
4-1A-7      35.31
4-2-1       94.001
4-2-2       94.002
4-2-3       94.003
4-2-4       94.004
4-3-1       94.020
4-3-2       94.021
4-3-3       94.022,
            94.999
4-3-4       94.023,
            94.999
4-3-5       94.024
4-3-6       94.025,
            94.999
4-3-7       94.026,
            94.999
4-3-8       94.999
4-3A-1      94.040
4-3A-2      94.041
4-3A-3      94.042
4-3A-4      94.043
4-3A-5      94.044
4-3A-6      94.045
4-4-1       94.060
4-4-2       94.061
4-4-3       94.062
4-4-4       94.063
4-4-5       94.064
4-4-6       94.999
4-5-1-(1)   95.01
4-5-1-(2)   95.02
4-5-1-(3)   95.03
4-5-1-(4)   95.04
4-5-1-(5)   95.05
4-5-1-(6)   95.06
4-5-2       95.20
4-5-3       95.21
4-6-1       98.01
4-6-2       98.02
4-6-3       98.03
4-6-4       98.04
4-6-5       98.05
4-6-6       98.06
4-6-7       98.07
5-1-1       34.01
5-1-2       34.02
5-1-4       34.05
5-1-5       34.06
5-1-6       34.07
5-1-7       34.08
5-1-8       34.09
5-1-9       34.10
5-1-10      34.11
5-1-11      34.12
5-1-12      34.13
5-1-13      34.14
5-1-14      34.15
5-1-15      34.16
5-1A-1      34.30
5-2-1       36.01
5-2-2       36.02
5-2-3       36.99
5-3-1       93.01
5-3-2       93.02
5-3-3       93.03
5-3-4       93.04
5-3-6       93.06
5-3-7       93.99
5-3A-1      93.20
5-3A-2      93.21
5-3A-3      93.22
5-3A-4      93.23
5-3A-5      93.24
5-3A-6      93.25
5-3A-7      93.26
5-3A-8      93.27
5-3A-9      93.99
5-4-1       130.01
5-4-2       130.02
5-4-3       130.03
5-4-4-(1)   131.01
5-4-4-(2)   131.02
5-4-4-(4)   131.04
5-4-4-(5)   131.05
5-4-4-(6)   131.06
5-4-4-(7)   131.07
5-4-4-(8)   131.08
5-4-4-(9)   131.09
5-4-4-(11)  131.10
5-4-4-(13)  131.11
5-4-5-(1)   132.01
5-4-5-(2)   132.02,
            132.99
5-4-5-(4)   132.03
5-4-5-(5)   132.04,
            132.99
5-4-5-(6)   132.05
5-4-5-(7)   132.06
5-4-5-(8)   132.07
5-4-6-(2)   133.01
5-4-7-(1)   134.01,
            134.99
5-4-7-(2)   134.02
5-4-8-(3)   135.01
5-4-8-(4)   135.02
5-4-9       133.02,
            133.99
5-4-11      133.03
5-5-2       136.03,
            136.99
5-5-3       136.04
5-5-5       136.06
5-6-1       133.20
5-6-2       133.21
5-6-3       133.22
5-6-4       133.99
6-1-1       71.01
6-1-2       71.02
6-1-3       71.03
6-1-4       71.04
6-1-5       71.05,
            71.99
6-1-6       71.06
6-1-7       71.07
6-1-8       71.08
6-1-9       71.99
6-2-1       70.01
6-2-2       70.02
6-2-3       70.03
6-2-4       70.04,
            70.99
6-2-5       70.05
6-2-7       70.06
6-2-8       70.07
6-3-1       72.01
6-3-2       72.02
6-3-3       72.03
6-3-4       72.04
6-3-5       72.05
6-3-6       72.06
6-3-7       72.07
6-4-1       76.01
6-4-2       76.02
6-4-3       Ch. 78, Sch. I
6-4-4       76.03
6-4-5       76.04
6-4-6       76.05
6-4-7       76.06
6-4-8       76.07
6-4-9       76.08
6-4-10      76.09
6-4-11      76.10
6-4-12      76.11
6-4-13      76.12
6-4-14      76.13
6-4-15      76.14
6-4-16      76.15
6-5-1       77.01
6-5-2       77.02
6-5-3       77.03
6-5-4       77.04
6-5-5       Ch. 79, Sch. I
6-5-6       77.05
6-5-7       77.06
6-5-8       77.07
6-6-1       73.01
6-6-2       73.02
6-6-3       73.03
6-6-4       73.04
6-7-1       74.01
6-7-2       74.02,
            74.99
6-7-3       74.03
6-7-4       74.04
6-7-5       74.05
6-7-6       74.06
6-7-7       74.07
6-7-8       74.08
6-7-9       74.09
6-7-10      74.10
6-8-1       75.01
6-8-2       75.02
6-9-1       75.15
6-9-2       75.16
6-9-3       75.17
6-9-4       75.18
6-10-1      70.99
6-10-2      70.99
6-10-3      70.99
7-1-1       90.01
7-1-2       90.02
7-1-3       90.03
7-1-4       90.04
7-1-5       90.05
7-1-6       90.06
7-1-7       90.07,
            90.99
7-1-8       90.08
7-1-9       90.09
7-1-10      90.10
7-1-11      90.11
7-1-12      90.12
7-2-1       91.01
7-2-2       91.02
7-2-3       91.03
7-2-4       91.04
7-3-1       92.01
7-3-2       92.02
7-3-3       92.03
7-3-4       92.04
7-3-5       92.05
7-3-6       92.06
7-3-7       92.07
7-3-8       92.08
7-3-9       92.09
7-4A-1      50.01
7-4A-2      50.02
7-4A-3      50.03
7-4A-4      50.99
7-4B-1      50.15
7-4B-2      50.16
7-4B-3      50.17
7-4B-4      50.18
7-4B-5      50.19
7-4B-6      50.20
7-4B-7      50.21
7-4B-8      50.22
7-4B-9      50.23
7-4B-10     50.24
7-4B-11     50.25
7-4B-12     50.26
7-4B-13     50.28
7-4C-1      50.40
7-4C-1-(1)  50.41
7-4C-1-(2)  50.42
7-4C-1-(3)  50.43
7-4C-1-(4)  50.44
7-4C-2      50.45,
            50.99
7-4C-3      50.46
7-4C-4      50.47
7-4C-5-(1)  50.48
7-4C-5-(2)  50.49
7-4C-5-(3)  50.50
7-4C-5-(4)  50.51
7-4C-5-(5)  50.99
7-4D-1      50.65
7-4D-2      50.66
7-4D-3      50.67
7-4D-4      50.68
7-4D-5      50.69
8-1A-1      150.01
8-1C-2      150.03
8-1C-3      150.03
8-1C-4      150.03,
            150.99
8-1C-5      150.03,
            150.99
8-1D-5      150.99
8-2-1       150.15,
            150.99
8-2-2       150.16
8-2-3       150.17
8-2-4       150.18,
            150.99
8-2-7       150.21
8-2-8       150.22
8-2-9       150.23,
            150.99
8-2-10      150.24
8-3-1       150.35
8-3-2       150.36,
            150.99
8-4-1       150.99
8-4-2       150.99
8-5-1       152.01
8-5-2       152.02
8-5-3       152.03
8-5-4       152.04
8-5-5       152.05
8-5-6       152.06
8-5-7       152.07
8-5-8       152.08
8-5-9       152.09
8-5-10      152.10
8-5-12      152.11
8-5-13      152.12
8-5-14      152.99
8-6-1       153.01
8-6-2       153.02
8-6-3       153.03
8-6-4       153.04
8-6-5       153.05
8-6-6       153.06
8-6-7       153.07
8-6-8       153.08
8-6-9       153.09
8-6-10      153.10,
            153.99
8-6-11      153.11
8-6-12      153.12
8-6-13      153.99
8-7-1       154.01
8-7-2       154.02
8-7-3       154.03
8-7-4       154.04
8-7-5       154.05
8-7-6       154.06
8-7-7       154.07
8-7-8       154.08
8-8-1       150.65
8-8-2       150.66
8-8-3       150.67
8-8-4       150.68
8-8-5       150.69
8-8-6       150.70
8-8-7       150.71
8-8-8       150.99
9A-1-1      159.001
9A-1-2      159.002
9A-1-3      159.003
9B-1-1      159.004
9B-2-1      159.015
9B-2-2      159.016
9B-2-3      159.017
9B-3A-1     159.030
9B-3A-2     159.031
9B-3A-3     159.032
9B-3A-4     159.033
9B-3B-1     159.045
9B-3B-2     159.046
9B-3B-3     159.047
9B-4-3      159.065
9B-4-4      159.066
9B-5A-1     159.080
9B-5A-2     159.081
9B-5A-3     159.082
9B-5A-4     159.083
9B-5A-5     159.084
9B-5B-1     159.095
9B-5B-2     159.096
9B-5B-3     159.097
9B-5B-4     159.098
9B-5B-5     159.099
9B-6-1-(1)  159.140
9B-6-1-(2)  159.141
9B-6-2      159.142
9B-6-3      159.128
9B-6-4      159.125
9B-6-5      159.126
9B-6-7      159.127
9B-7-1      159.155
9B-7-2      159.156
9B-7-3      159.157
9B-7-4      159.158
9B-8-1      159.190
9B-9-1      159.210
9B-9-2      159.211
9B-9-3      159.212
9B-9-4      159.213
9B-9-5      159.214
9B-9-6      159.215
9B-9-7      159.216
9B-9-8      159.999
9C-1-1      156.01
9C-2-1      156.02
9C-2A-1     156.15
9C-2A-2     156.16
9C-2A-3     156.17
9C-2A-4     156.18
9C-3A-1     155.01
9C-3A-2     155.02,
            155.99
9C-3A-3     155.03,
            155.99
9C-3A-4     155.04
9C-3B-1     155.15
9C-3B-2     155.16
9C-3B-3     155.17
9C-3B-4     155.18
9C-3C-1-(1) 155.30
9C-3C-1-(2) 155.31
9C-3C-1-(3) 155.32
9C-3C-1-(4) 155.33
9C-3C-1-(5) 155.34
9C-3C-2     155.35
9C-3C-3     155.36
9C-3C-4     155.37
9C-3C-5     155.38
9C-3D-1     155.50
9C-3D-2     155.51
9C-3D-3     155.52
9C-3D-4     155.53
            
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
640      5-5-1970    159.065
496      9-6-1973    159.083
506      2-21-1974   50.25
508      2-21-1974   50.21
510      3-21-1974   150.17
511      3-21-1974   110.99
519      9-19-1974   159.033
520      9-19-1974   159.047
521      9-19-1974   150.18
541      3-6-1975    159.141
543      3-6-1975    150.35
546      4-17-1975   159.047
547      4-17-1975   150.17
555      7-3-1975    150.22
556      7-17-1975   131.99
562      8-7-1975    159.033
563      8-7-1975    159.047
590      12-18-1975  159.033
593      2-2-1976    134.01,
                     134.99
595      2-20-1976   159.033
598      4-15-1976   159.140
599      4-15-1976   150.36,
                     150.99
604      5-6-1976    150.01
608      5-20-1976   93.24
612      8-5-1976    159.083
613      8-5-1976    159.098
614      8-5-1976    110.99
622      11-4-1976   50.18,
                     50.20
625      11-18-1976  136.03,
                     136.99
                     152.02 
                     152.06,
636      4-7-1977    152.08 
                     152.12,
                     152.99
647      7-21-1977   94.022,
                     94.999
656      11-3-1977   150.99
662      12-1-1977   37.03
665      12-1-1977   153.99
673      1-19-1978   159.084
682      2-16-1978   155.53
676      3-2-1978    159.083
677      3-2-1978    50.50
678      3-16-1978   150.16,
                     150.99
679      3-16-1978   150.99
683      5-4-1978    50.48
703      - -1978     150.17
705      9-21-1978   150.01
706      9-21-1978   159.999
709      11-2-1978   94.040
715      1-4-1979    159.017
723      4-5-1979    Ch. 79, Sch. I
725      4-5-1979    50.48
                     110.99,
732      5-3-1979    118.01 
                     118.05,
                     118.99
738      6-7-1979    150.17
739      6-7-1979    150.65
740      6-7-1979    159.004
741      6-7-1979    159.004
742      6-7-1979    159.032
743      6-7-1979    159.017
744      6-7-1979    159.213
745      6-7-1979    159.213
746      6-7-1979    159.216
748      6-7-1979    94.041 
                     94.044
749      6-7-1979    159.082
769      10-4-1979   50.48
770      10-4-1979   Ch. 79, Sch. I
774      10-18-1979  94.025,
                     94.999
776      10-18-1979  150.15
779      11-1-1979   152.07
781      12-6-1979   77.06
786      12-20-1979  71.01
787      12-20-1979  71.05,
                     71.99
788      12-20-1979  71.99
790      1-3-1980    34.09
798      6-5-1980    Ch. 79, Sch. I
800      6-5-1980    50.48
818      11-6-1980   159.047
819      11-6-1980   150.18,
                     150.99
                     32.001,
828      12-18-1980  33.110,
                     33.111
832      1-8-1981    159.098
834      1-8-1981    159.083
838      1-15-1981   50.66
848      4-16-1981   159.173
850      5-7-1981    32.043
                     32.001,
852      5-21-1981   32.100 
                     32.103
853      5-21-1981   155.52
857      8-20-1981   159.171
                     50.99,
872      7-1-1982    115.99,
                     116.99
876      7-15-1982   150.99
883      9-16-1982   159.098
885      9-16-1982   159.083
886      10-7-1982   159.065
895      12-2-1982   159.127
897      12-2-1982   110.99
898      12-2-1982   110.99
903      5-5-1983    Ch. 79, Sch. I
908      7-7-1983    150.99
909      7-7-1983    159.047
910      7-7-1983    159.065
911      7-7-1983    159.083
912      7-7-1983    159.098
922      11-17-1983  159.033
923      11-17-1983  159.128
956      1-17-1985   32.027
967      4-18-1985   34.09
969      4-18-1985   35.04
970      4-18-1985   32.055
976      6-6-1985    159.033
983      8-1-1985    153.99
984      8-1-1985    153.99
                     36.01,
989      9-1-1985    36.02,
                     36.99
1001     5-1-1986    35.25 
                     35.31
1038     7-2-1987    159.065
1046     9-3-1987    150.99
1051     11-5-1987   110.13
1056     12-3-1987   Ch. 79, Sch. I
                     110.99,
1070     5-5-1988    117.01 
                     117.03,
                     117.99
1083     9-15-1988   159.125
1098     12-15-1988  156.02
1109     2-2-1989    31.14
1110     2-2-1989    32.042
1117     5-18-1989   31.13
1125     7-6-1989    94.023,
                     94.999
1144     10-19-1989  74.02
1157     11-16-1989  132.03,
                     132.99
1167     2-1-1990    110.99
1169     4-5-1990    37.04
1199     7-26-1990   131.99
1200     8-2-1990    159.125
1208     9-20-1990   110.99
1209     9-20-1990   152.01
1211     10-4-1990   150.03,
                     150.99
                     98.20 
1492     6-6-1992    98.27,
                     98.99
1298     9-3-1992    32.008
1327     4-15-1993   159.033
1338     7-1-1993    111.03,
                     111.99
1345     8-19-1993   34.01
1391     6-2-1994    111.05
1421     10-20-1994  136.01,
                     136.99
1457     7-20-1995   150.36
1472     11-16-1995  159.173
1473     11-16-1995  159.215
1538     8-7-1997    159.033
1540     9-18-1997   Ch. 78, Sch. I
                     119.01 
                     119.06,
                     119.20 
                     119.24,
1594     11-5-1998   119.35 
                     119.37,
                     119.50 
                     119.59,
                     119.99
1613     5-6-1999    91.15 
                     91.18
                     91.30 
1614     5-6-1999    91.35,
                     91.99
1617     5-6-1999    133.99
                     120.01 
1670     9-21-2000   120.06,
                     120.99
1672     10-5-2000   32.130,
                     32.131
                     159.033,
1673-A   11-2-2000   159.047,
                     159.083,
                     159.098
1674     11-2-2000   150.99
1696     5-17-2001   114.45 
                     114.49
                     114.25 
1731     3-21-2002   114.33,
                     114.99
1754     10-3-2002   32.170
1755     10-17-2002  150.37
1767     5-15-2003   94.023,
                     94.999
1785     11-6-2003   159.097
1787     11-6-2003   150.01
1807     3-4-2004    150.17
1833     11-18-2004  159.170 
                     159.175
1878     3-16-2006   33.125 113.136
1880     3-16-2006   121.01 
                     121.04
1882     5-4-2006    34.01
1899     10-19-2006  112.20 
                     112.49
                     159.173,
1904     11-16-2006  159.213,
                     159.214
        1-18-2007   96.01-
                     96.08
                     112.01 
1927     6-7-2007    112.05,
                     112.99
1934     7-5-2007    35.01
1940     8-2-2007    159.060 
                     159.064
1952     1-17-2008   50.67
195      3-20-2008   112.25
1956     4-3-2008    32.145 
                     32.147
                     158.01 
1971     11-20-2008  158.07,
                     158.99
                     157.01 
                     157.05,
                     157.20 
1972     11-20-2008  157.26,
                     157.40 
                     157.46,
                     157.99
1980     2-5-2009    94.040
1981     3-5-2009    159.031,
                     159.032
1990     8-20-2009   112.34
1999     12-17-2009  50.67;
                     50.99
                     113.26 
2000     1-7-2010    113.30;
                     113.99
2001     1-21-2010   30.04
2007     4-15-2010   34.17
2010     5-20-2010   150.25;
                     150.99
2012     7-1-2010    33.150 
                     33.152
2032     4-7-2011    34.18
                     122.01 
2033     4-21-2011   122.17;
                     122.99
2034     4-21-2011   11.01 
                     11.24
2035     4-21-2011   80.01 
                     80.19
2036     4-21-2011   132.03;
                     132.99
2037     4-21-2011   94.080 
                     94.083
2038     4-21-2011   70.25 
                     70.34
                     94.100;
2039     4-21-2011   94.101;
                     94.999
                     160.01 
2040     4-21-2011   160.04;
                     160.99
2041     4-21-2011   136.05;
                     136.99
                     93.28 
2042     4-21-2011   93.31;
                     93.99
2043     4-21-2011   131.03;
                     131.99
2044     4-21-2011   136.07;
                     136.99
2045     4-21-2011   136.08;
                     136.99
2047     5-19-2011   112.25
2054     9-15-2011   136.03
2056     9-15-2011   112.25
2057     10-6-2011   Adopting Ordinance
2060     11-3-2011   112.25
                     99.01 
2068     1-5-2012    99.07;
                     99.99
2071     2-2-2012    112.25
2078     4-19-2012   112.25
2079     4-19-2012   32.044
                     114.02 
2080     5-3-2012    114.04;
                     114.99
2082     6-7-2012    112.25
                     112.24;
2083     6-7-2012    112.25;
                     112.34;
                     112.41
2088     7-19-2012   34.19
2089     8-2-2012    112.25
2093     11-15-2012  112.25
                     11.06;
                     31.02;
2095     12-6-2012   31.13;
                     33.003;
                     33.017; 33.092
                     70.26;
2099     1-3-2013    70.30;
                     70.31
2100     1-3-2013    34.18
2102     1-3-2013    50.67
2107     2-21-2013   112.25
2112     4-4-2013    110.14
2113     4-4-2013    159.171;
                     159.172
                     11.06;
                     31.02;
2117     6-6-2013    31.13;
                     33.003;
                     33.017
                     32.132;
                     32.148;
2121     7-18-2013   32.171;
                     34.20;
                     35.32
                     11.06;
                     31.02;
2128     9-5-2013    31.13;
                     33.003;
                     33.017; 33.092
                     112.25;
2133     11-7-2013   112.31;
                     112.32
2134     11-7-2013   110.14
2135     11-7-2013   34.01
2138     12-5-2013   112.25
                     11.06;
                     31.02;
2140     12-19-2013  31.13;
                     33.003;
                     33.017
2142     1-9-2014    50.67
2144     2-6-2014    111.03;
                     111.99
2146     2-6-2014    32.180
2148     3-6-2014    112.25
2149     3-6-2014    32.190 
                     32.195
2152     3-20-2014   51.01
2160     5-8-2014    50.29;
                     50.99
                     110.14;
                     123.01 
2165     6-5-2014    123.03;
                     123.05;
                     123.08;
                     159.171
2166     6-5-2014    159.171
2167     6-19-2014   38.01 
                     38.11
2168     6-19-2014   112.25
2169     6-19-2014   110.14
2171     6-19-2014   159.100 
                     159.105
2177     7-17-2014   112.25
                     112.24;
                     112.25;
2185     8-21-2014   112.27;
                     112.34;
                     112.50
2189     9-18-2014   31.14
2191     10- 9-2014  71.05
2192     10-9-2014   50.67
                     110.14;
                     123.01 
2196     11-6-2014   123.10;
                     123.99;
                     159.171
2198     11-20-2014  112.25
2200     12-4-2014   160.04
2202     12-18-2014  37.04
2204     1-8-2015    80.40 
                     80.47
2208     1-8-2015    50.67
2210     2-5-2015    71.04
                     161.01 -
2215     3-5-2015    161.13,
                     161.99
2216     3-19-2015   112.25
2223     5-7-2015    110.05
2224     5-7-2015    110.03
2225     5-7-2015    111.06
2226     5-7-2015    152.13
2232     6-4-2015    159.126
2236     7-23-2015   124.01 —
                     124.05
2237     7-23-2015   112.25
2240     8-20-2015   112.25
2247     9-3-2015    125.01 —
                     125.23
2249     9-17-2015   112.25
2254     10-8-2015   112.45
2259     10-22-2015  112.25
                     11.06;
2269     12-3-2015   31.02;
                     31.13;
                     33.003
2273     12-17-2015  50.67
2281     1-28-2016   112.25
2282     2-18-2016   112.25
2286     3-3-2016    112.25
2287     3-3-2016    50.27
2290     3-17-2016   94.027;
                     94.084
2291     3-17-2016   112.25
                     80.04;
2293     4-7-2016    80.40 
                     80.47
2294     4-7-2016    112.25
2298     4-21-2016   37.07
2299     4-21-2016   112.25
2302     5-5-2016    11.09
2303     5-5-2016    112.25
2308     5-19-2016   112.25
                     32.027;
2309     6-9-2016    32.205 
                     32.207
2312     6-9-2016    112.25
2315     6-23-2016   112.25
2321     8-18-2016   112.25
2326     9-21-2016   150.04
2327     9-21-2016   112.25
                     100.01 
2330     10-6-2016   100.07;
                     100.99
2331     11-17-2016  112.25
2334     11-17-2016  133.04
                     11.06;
2336     12-8-2016   31.02;
                     31.13;
                     33.003
                     94.027;
2337     12-8-2016   94.084;
                     94.999
2338     12-22-2016  32.205 
                     32.207
2339     1-18-2017   50.67
2343     2-9-2017    112.25
2344     2-9-2017    150.03
2345     2-9-2017    94.084;
                     94.999
                     150.02;
2360     5-4-2017    150.03;
                     150.05
2361     5-4-2017    150.01;
                     150.18
2362     5-4-2017    150.04;
                     150.21
2363     5-18-2017   126.01;
                     126.02
2369     7-20-2017   131.12;
                     131.99
2376     8-17-2017   112.25
2380     10-5-2017   159.03
2381     10-5-2017   150.02
2382     10-19-2017  112.25
2388     11-9-2017   132.08;
                     132.99
2393     11-22-2017  112.25
2395     11-22-2017  37.04
2398     12-7-2017   74.11;
                     74.99
2399     12-21-2017  31.02
2408     1-18-2018   112.25
2411     1-18-2018   40.01 
                     40.04
2417     3-15-2018   112.25
2424     5-3-2018    30.05
2428     5-17-2018   50.67
2432     6-7-2018    112.25
2440     7-19-2018   114.29 —
                     114.32
2451     9-6-2018    37.08,
                     112.51
2453     10-4-2018   94.085
2459     11-15-2018  39.01 —
                     39.06
2472     2-7-2019    97.01 —
                     97.06
2477     3-6-2019    113.01,
                     113.10
2480     3-21-2019   70.09,
                     70.10
2484     3-21-2019   50.67
2493     5-16-2019   50.67
2500     6-6-2019    112.25
                     159.063,
                     159.085,
2511     8-15-2019   159.099,
                     162.01 
                     162.12
2513     8-15-2019   114.01—
                     114.04
2517     9-5-2019    112.25
                     151.01—
2521     9-19-2019   151.11,
                     151.99
2530     11-7-2019   111.03
2538     12-19-2019  34.01
2544     2-6-2020    112.25
2560     6-28-2020   112.25
2561     7-16-2020   111.03
2564     7-16-2020   101.01—
                     101.12
2565     7-16-2020   159.067
2566     8-20-2020   160.03
                     70.25,
                     70.26,
                     70.28 
2576     11-5-2020   70.30,
                     70.33,
                     70.34,
                     70.99
2586     1-21-2021   150.26
2598     5-20-2021   37.09—
                     37.11
2603     8-19-2021   112.25
2611     10-7-2021   112.25
2613     11-4-2021   34.01
2626     1-6-2022    31.02
2646     5-19-2022   159.004,
                     159.171
2648     6-2-2022    112.25
2655     8-18-2022   31.02
2658     10-20-2022  113.11
                     11.06,
2665     12-15-2022  31.02,
                     31.13
2667     1-19-2023   150.04
2668     1-19-2023   113.01—
                     113.10
2677     3-16-2023   112.25
2679     4-20-2023   150.38
2686     7-20-2023   159.125
2689     8-17-2023   50.67
2690     8-17-2023   112.25
2692     9-7-2023    31.14
                     11.06,
2698     11-2-2023   31.02,
                     31.13
2699     11-2-2023   34.01
2702     11-16-2023  160.02
                     11.06,
2710     1-4-2024    31.02,
                     31.13
2719     5-16-2024   112.25
                     93.01—
2721     6-20-2024   93.06,
                     94.081
                     127.01—
2724     7-18-2024   127.16,
                     127.99
2729     9-5-2024    114.30,
                     114.32
2736     9-19-2024   111.07
2741     11-7-2024   111.07
                     11.06,
2744     12-5-2024   31.02,
                     31.13,
                     33.003
2747     12-5-2024   34.01—
                     34.20
2750     12-19-2024  35.08
2753     1-23-2025   111.08
2755-25  2-6-2025    34.21
2756-25  2-6-2025    34.22
2763     3-20-2025   112.25
                     110.09,
2775     5-15-2025   120.01,
                     120.02
                    
 
 
