CURRAN-GARDNER TOWNSHIPS PUBLIC WATER DISTRICT, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through
Ordinance 72 published 11-12-2024
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water
District shall be designated as the code of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public
Water District and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the District.
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   DISTRICT. The Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District.
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
District, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The District code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, being 815 ILCS 333/1 et seq., except as otherwise provided by
law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   (1)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the
last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any
statute now or hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be
excluded.
      (2)   If the day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the District
may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the District shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
District.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the District exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the District; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
District or a certain District officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the District. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The District shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying
      all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
District for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE II: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
      
20.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 20: PERSONNEL
Section
   
20.01   Adopting State Wage Ordinance
§ 20.01 ADOPTING STATE WAGE ORDINANCE.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “An Act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by state, county, city
or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under contract for
public works,” approved June 26, 1941, as amended, being 820 ILCS 130/0.01 et
seq., the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers,
mechanics and other workers engaged in construction of public works coming
under the jurisdiction of the Water District is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Sangamon
County area as determined by the State Department of Labor as of June of the
current year a copy of that determination being attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the State Department of Labor
shall supersede the Department’s June determination and apply to any and all
public works construction undertaken by the Water District. The definition of
any terms appearing in this section which are also used in aforesaid Act shall
be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works of the Water District to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The Water District Secretary shall publicly post or keep available for
inspection by any interested party in the main office of the Water District
this determination or any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of
this determination or of the current revised determination of prevailing rate
of wages then in effect shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The Water District Secretary shall mail a copy of this determination
to any employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or
association of employers who have filed their names and addresses, requesting
copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular
class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The Water District Secretary shall promptly file a certified copy of
the ordinance codified in this section with the Secretary of State Index
Division and the State Department of Labor.
   (F)   The Water District shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the area a notice that the ordinance codified in
this section has been adopted, and such publication shall constitute notice
that the determination is effective and that this is the determination of this
Water District.
(Ord. 66, passed 6-18-2012)
TITLE III: WATER REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
30.   WATERWORKS OPERATION
      
31.   WATER CONSERVATION
CHAPTER 30: WATERWORKS OPERATION
Section
   
30.01   Business and Operations Manager
   
30.02   Water service requirements
   
30.03   Obstructions prohibited
   
30.04   Restoration of service charge
   
30.05   Water meters
   
30.06   District liability
   
30.07   Access to premises
   
30.08   Water rates
   
30.09   Water bills
   
30.10   Water for building or construction
   
30.11   Additional prohibitions; water shut-off and turn-on
   
30.12   Disconnection; notification
   
30.13   Separate premises
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS MANAGER.
   The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to appoint a Business and
Operations Manager of the waterworks properties of the District and all other
necessary employees, and said Business Manager shall have the general
management and control of the office and business matters. The Operations
Manager has management and control of waterworks properties, subject, however,
to the supervision of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968)
§ 30.02 WATER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water service application. All persons or organizations owning
property and desiring water service to their property shall fill out a water
service application, pay the appropriate tap fee and begin paying for the water
service the first full month after the water service is installed.
      (1)   For all persons or organizations desiring water service, having the
water bill in their name, but not owning the property (renting, leasing or
having a similar use of the property) to which the Water District provides
water service, shall fill out a water service application and pay the
appropriate tap fee, and that person or organization shall also deposit with
the Water District the sum of $200. Such deposits shall be known as renters
deposits.
      (2)   The renter deposit is provided as a means to assure payment of the
monthly charges for water. When that person or organization no longer wants
water service at that location, a final meter reading shall be taken by Water
District personnel, a final bill provided and, if appropriate, the
responsibility for water used there returned to the person owning that
property.
      (3)   After all charges owed to the Water District are paid, the balance
(if any) of the deposit shall be returned to the customer. For customers whose
water bill exceeds the deposit three months in a row, the original renters
deposit shall be increased by $50.
   (B)   Water service installation.
      (1)   No water service shall be installed until application for water has
been accepted by the Water District office and the proper fee paid.
      (2)   The Water District is responsible for installing and maintaining
all infrastructure from the water main service tap up to, and including, the
meter pit. Only one inch or larger water services shall be connected to the
Water District’s water mains.
      (3)   The charge for labor and material for installing a new water
service varies depending on the size, type and location of the property. Such
fees are posted in the District’s Water Service Installation Fee Schedule, as
described in division (C) below.
      (3)   The applicant is responsible for installing and maintaining water
service piping from the customers connection point at the base of the meter
yoke inside the meter pit or the customers connection point at the bulkhead
fitting on the meter pit to the house or building that is requesting water
service.
      (4)   For all persons or organizations owning property and desiring water
service to their property shall:
         (a)   Fill out a water service application;
         (b)   Pay the appropriate tap fee as outlined in the Water Service
Installation Fee Schedule; and
         (c)   Begin paying for water service the first full month after the
water service is installed.
      (5)   For all persons or organizations desiring water service, having the
water bill in their name, but not owning the property (e.g., renting, leasing
and the like), shall:
         (a)   Fill out a water service application;
         (b)   Pay the appropriate tap fee as outlined in the Water Service
Installation Fee Schedule: and
         (c)   Begin paying for water service the first full month after the
water service is installed.
      (6)   Water service fees are set and approved by the District Board of
Trustees and are subject change.
   (C)   Water Service Installation Fee Schedule.
 
Size of Service    Main Side        Non-Main Side Curb Stop Service
1 inch*            $2,500           $3,100        $1,500
1 1/2 inches       $4,000           $4,600        n/a
2 inches           $5,000           $5,600        n/a
3 inches or larger Please see below
Note:
* If applicable, there shall be a $650 fee for boring.
 
      (1)   The renter’s deposit shall be $200. The renter’s deposit is held by
the District to assure payment of the monthly charges for water. When that
person or organization no longer wants water service at that location, a final
meter reading shall be taken by District personnel, a final bill provided, and
the responsibility for water used there returned to the person owning that
property. After all charges owed to the District are paid, the balance of the
deposit shall be returned to the customer.
      (2)   (a)   Typical water service materials include tap saddle,
corporation stop, water service piping, meter yoke, meter pit, meter pit lid
and water meter.
         (b)   A curb stop water service is a water service that is typically
installed in a newly developed subdivision where the developer of said
subdivision has pre-installed water service taps, service piping, and a curb
stop box. Curb stop water service fee includes all materials and labor starting
at the curb stop, installing piping, meter pit, meter pit lid and the water
meter.
         (c)   Additional charges for labor and/or materials may be assessed
for unordinary circumstances such as, but not limited to, equipment for longer
or larger underground bores; to cut, remove and/or replace pavement, sidewalk
or other structure on public or private roadways; materials for backfill,
surface replacement, any required pipe casing, jacking sleeves; and additional
labor by the District and/or contractors hired by the District.
         (d)   An additional 10% charge will be made for material not normally
stocked by the District.
         (e)   Water services larger than two inches are available. The fee is
based on time and material. Due to varying circumstances, the fee will be
calculated on a case-by-case basis.
         (f)   All above fees are set forth by the District Board of Trustees
and are subject to change.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 55, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 59, passed 2-10-
2011; Ord. 70, passed 1-10-2023) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.03 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stop-cock, hydrant
or valve, or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any street,
alley, public ground or place connected with or part of said waterworks
properties, nor pile or place any lumber, brick or building material or other
article, thing or hindrance whatsoever within 12 feet of the same, or so as to
in any manner hinder, delay or obstruct the members of any fire department in
reaching the same. It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to
interfere with or obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized use of
water in said waterworks properties, reservoir or plant, or any part thereof,
or to injure, deface, remove or displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe,
water meter, shut-off box, public fountain, valve, engine or building connected
with said waterworks properties or plants, or to cause, suffer or permit any of
said things to be done.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.04 RESTORATION OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The Water District shall make a charge of $50 for turn-on after being
turned-off because of nonpayment or delinquency in the payment of a bill.
(Ord. 55, passed 1-12-2010)
§ 30.05 WATER METERS.
   (A)   There shall be no free water service; all residential or commercial
water consumers supplied by the District shall be supplied through meters only,
and every consumer shall pay for the water at the rates and in the manner
hereinafter specified.
   (B)   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair, or for any
cause, fails properly to register the water passing through the same, the
consumer shall be charged at the rate shown for the corresponding time of the
previous year under like conditions. If no record of the previous year exists,
then it shall be the duty of the Business Manager of the waterworks properties
to estimate or determine so far as he or she can the amount of water consumed
during the time such meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall pay the
amount so estimated.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of multiple buildings or mobile homes which are
located on premises under one ownership but being occupied by different
persons, a separate water meter for each building or mobile home or a single
meter for all may be used; provided, that if there is not a separate water
meter for each, such building or mobile home shall be charged the monthly water
service rate plus the monthly meter service fee.
      (2)   Where there is not a separate meter for each unit, building or
mobile home, the water usage, as registered by the meter through which the non-
metered units are supplied, shall be charged to and payable by the owner of the
premises. All new mobile home parks must provide separate meters for each
mobile home.
      (3)   This section is intended to provide ongoing service to facilities
in the District as of January 1, 2010.
   (D)   At any point in time, the customer may have the meter tested. If the
meter fails, the District is responsible for fees. If the meter passes, the
customer is responsible for fees.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 55, passed 1-12-2010) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.06 DISTRICT LIABILITY.
   All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water used
hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the District shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by
reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said waterworks properties or plant, or any part
or portion of said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of
the breakage of machinery, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or
renewals.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968)
§ 30.07 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   The District and its employees shall have ready access to the
premises, places or buildings where meters are located for the purpose of
reading, examining, testing and repairing the same, and examining and testing
the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any
persons or corporations to interfere with, prevent or obstruct said District,
or its duly authorized agent, in its duties hereunder.
   (B)   Every consumer of said water shall take the same upon the conditions
prescribed in this section.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.08 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The following charges shall be made for metered service within the
District’s boundaries for those customers receiving water from the District’s
water treatment system:
      (1)   Monthly meter service fee: $5; and
      (2)   Rates for water supplied, except coin-operated bulk water
facilities, payable monthly upon receipt of the water bill:
         (a)   Monthly minimum charge for up to the first 2,000 gallons:
Current rate referenced in Rules, Rates and Regulations; and
         (b)   For all water above 2,000 gallons, for each 1,000 gallons:
Current rate referenced in Rules, Rates and Regulations.
   (B)   The following charges shall be made for metered service outside the
District’s boundaries for those customers receiving water from the District’s
water treatment system:
      (1)   Monthly meter service fee: $5.50; and
      (2)   Rates for water supplied, except coin-operated bulk water
facilities, payable monthly upon receipt of the water bill:
         (a)   Monthly minimum charge up to the first 2,000 gallons: Current
rate referenced in Rules, Rates and Regulations; and
         (b)   For all water above 2,000 gallons, for each 1,000 gallons:
Current rate referenced in Rules, Rates and Regulations.
   (C)   The following shall be the rate for water supplied through the coin-
operated bulk water facilities of said District: as stated in Rules, Rates and
Regulations.
   (D)   (1)   The District may provide for the rental of equipment to provide
water through a connection to a fire hydrant.
      (2)   The deposit for the use of the equipment shall be $750. The
equipment may be used for two days without a daily rental charge. After two
days, the daily rental of the equipment shall be $25.
      (3)   If the equipment is damaged during its usage, the deposit fee will
be used to provide for the replacement or repair of the equipment, as deemed
appropriate by the District. Remaining deposit funds after the repair or
replacement of the equipment will be returned to the renter.
      (4)   The following shall be the rate for water supplied through this
equipment: Based on current Rules, Rates and Regulations.
   (E)   (1)   On March 1, 2011, the rates set forth in divisions (A)(2) and
(B)(2) above shall be increased by a percentage equal to the cost-of-living
adjustment, plus 0.5%. The cost-of-living adjustment shall be based on the most
recent Social Security Administration (FICA) cost of living table issued prior
to that date.
      (2)   Each January 1 thereafter, such rates shall be increased in the
same manner over and above the prior year rates. This increase shall be
automatic without further action of the District Board of Trustees and shall be
imposed by the Business Manager, however, the Board shall have the right to
reduce or forgo this adjustment amount each year prior to its imposition by
action at a Board meeting.
      (3)   For those customers receiving water from other sources than the
District’s water treatment system, the customer’s water rate shall be
established as the cost of water, including the costs for monthly meter fees,
to the District from the other sources plus the difference in the District’s
current rate and the District’s water treatment production costs.
   (F)   Any school district which may own and maintain within the District a
building for the maintenance and operation of its system of schools and which
may be connected to the waterworks’ properties of the District, shall be billed
on the basis of metered service.
   (G)   The following charges shall be made for unmetered service.
      (1)   Any person or corporation, not using metered water service at the
location in question and using water for fire protection from any of the fire
hydrants connected to the waterworks’ properties of the District, shall pay $50
for each use if such is for residential fire suppression and shall pay $100 for
each use if service is for business fire suppression, unless such residence or
business is in a fire protection business that has a current contract with the
Water District.
      (2)   (a)   Any person or organization that has made application for new
water service and had such application accepted, but is not using metered water
service, shall pay a monthly standby charge of an amount equal to the minimum
charge for metered water service per month for each location (not including the
monthly meter service fee) for which the water service has been applied for and
accepted, irrespective of whether a water meter has been installed. Provided,
however, that if such person or organization has used no water at a location
for three consecutive years and has paid the monthly standby or minimum charge
for such period, or met the criteria, upon the written application (abandon
meter application) of such person or organization, the District will remove any
meter that has been installed and make no further monthly standby or minimum
charges for such location.
         (b)   The District will restore the water service and meter at the
same location upon the person or organization making application therefor and
paying $50 plus the actual cost to the District for such restoration.
   (H)   The District reserves the right to make such reasonable changes in
rates and in conditions herein established and to establish further rules and
regulations from time to time as may be found expeditious or necessary.
(Ord. 51, passed 8-14-2007; Ord. 55, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 59, passed 2-10-
2011)
§ 30.09 WATER BILLS.
   Bills for water service shall be rendered monthly and shall be delinquent 30
days after their rendition, and, in the event of failure to pay the bills
within said 30-day period, an additional charge of 5% shall be added to the
bill.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968)
§ 30.10 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any and all persons or corporations desiring to use District water for
building or construction purposes shall make application therefor in writing
and file the same in the office of the Business and Operations Manager on a
form to be provided for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon a permit being granted (permits shall be issued in writing and
signed by the Business or Operations Manager of the waterworks properties), the
service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the applicant to the inside of
the curb line, where a service cock and meter shall be placed, with pipe
leading to the surface, and a faucet at the end thereof above said surface.
   (C)   When the building or construction work is completed, the faucet and
meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless permanent connection
hereunder is made.
   (D)   Charge for the use and connecting of meters shall be as prescribed
hereafter by the Board of Trustees of the Public Water District.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968)
§ 30.11 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS; WATER SHUT-OFF AND TURN-ON.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and
plumbers are hereby adopted and established.
      (1)   No water shall be furnished or supplied to any consumer for any
purpose whatever until such consumer shall make application therefor. Such
application shall state the location of the premises to be served and the use
to which the water will be put.
      (2)   No water consumer may supply water to other families or allow them
to take it except for use on the premises and for the purposes specified in the
application, nor after water is introduced into any building or upon any
premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap or
connection with the work upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions
or attachments without a written permit therefor, to be issued by the Business
and Operations Manager of the waterworks properties.
      (3)   (a)   The District reserves the right to shut off water in the
mains at any time for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections
with or extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of
the District in case of fire; and for restricting the use of the water in case
of deficiency in supply.
         (b)   No claim shall be made against the District by reason of the
breaking of any service pipe or service cock or damage arising from shutting
off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other
connections or repairing any part of the waterworks properties, or from failure
of the water supply, or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from
concentration or restricted use of water as above.
      (4)   (a)   The Water District shall not charge a customer for shut-off
and turn-on of water service made at the request of any customer for purposes
of convenience during regular business hours.
         (b)   The Water District shall charge a customer $50 for turn-on after
being turned-off because of nonpayment or delinquency in the payment of a bill
or any request for service maintenance caused by the customer after regular
business hours.
      (5)   There will be a $25 service charge to customers for all non-
sufficient funds (NSF) checks returned to the District.
   (B)   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hose
for sprinkling lawns and gardens, whenever in the opinion of the Board of
Trustees of the District public exigencies require it.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 55, passed 1-12-2010)
§ 30.12 DISCONNECTION; NOTIFICATION.
   For violation of any of the foregoing rules or for the nonpayment of water
bills, the District reserves the right to turn off the water without notice and
to forfeit any payments made, and, after the water has been turned-off from any
service pipe on account of nonpayment of water bills, or violations of rules,
the same will not be turned-on until all delinquent bills and penalties are
paid, together with the charge of turning off and on such meter, and no water
will be furnished to any person who is indebted to the District on account of
water consumed, material or repairs.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968)
§ 30.13 SEPARATE PREMISES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §
30.05(C), no owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into
any two distinct premises or tenements unless separate meters are installed,
and stop-cocks shall be placed on the outside of such premises along or near
the street or road right-of-way line opposite the same, nor shall any pipe be
allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises in the absence of a
recorded easement.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner having more than one residence or place of business
connected to a single meter on the premises shall be charged a minimum of the
monthly water service rate plus the monthly meter service fee, established
yearly by the District, which will only include 1,000 gallons per additional
monthly minimum, for each residence or place of business served by the meter.
      (2)   Upon change of ownership of the property, the new owner must apply
for and receive a separate water service with individual meters for each
residence or place of business.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 55, passed 1-12-2010) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)    Any person who shall perform any act in violation of §
30.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$500 for each offense and shall in addition be liable for the actual damage
done or caused.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the rules and regulations provided
for in §
30.11(A) respecting the regulations for consumers of water and plumbers shall,
upon conviction, in addition to
the enforcement of the forfeiture and liabilities therein contained, pay a fine
of not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-26-1968)
CHAPTER 31: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
31.01   Application
   
31.02   Title
   
31.03   Notification
   
31.04   Mandatory water conservation regulations
   
31.05   Enforcement
   
31.06   Publication
   
31.07   Restrictions
   
31.08   Water surcharge
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 APPLICATION.
   The following mandatory water conservation regulations, which shall be
applicable to all retail water service customers of the District, are hereby
adopted, to be effective after the adoption of this chapter and remaining
thereafter in full force and effect.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.02 TITLE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed “the Rules and Regulations of
the District” with regard to the operation and maintenance of the waterworks
properties of the District.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.03 NOTIFICATION.
   The Business and Operations Manager and the Board of Trustees will notify
the customers of the imposition of these water conservation regulations in the
future, whenever they deem that the regulations are necessary, by providing
notification in a newspaper having general circulation in the District 30 days
prior to their imposition.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.04 MANDATORY WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees of the District hereby adopts the following mandatory
water conservation regulations for the District.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint law enforcement personnel, utility
security personnel, temporary and seasonal employees and other personnel who
shall have the authority to issue to any retail water customer of the District
any notice of violation pursuant to any violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.06 PUBLICATION.
   In accordance with the authority provided in the Public Water District Act,
70 ILCS 3705/23, this chapter shall be published within 30 days of its passage
in a newspaper having general circulation in the District and shall take effect
ten days after such publication. This chapter shall remain in full force and
effect until further notice as set forth in this chapter, which shall be
applicable to all water service customers of the District. The Business and
Operations Manager and the Board of Trustees of the District are to cause this
chapter to be implemented immediately upon the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.07 RESTRICTIONS.
Drought State Based on Well Level Action Item
Drought State Based on Well Level       Action Item
Stage 1
                                        1. Advise public on water conservation
                                        tips on District website and distribute
Well #1 or Well #5 at or below 7.5 feet through media
                                        2. Request voluntary conservation and
                                        alternative day watering via District
                                        and other media resources
Stage 2
                                        All Stage 1 measures plus additional
                                        steps below:
                                        1. Discontinue flow testing of hydrants
                                        2. Implement 3 day per week watering
                                        regulations for residential and
                                        commercial grass common areas (see
                                        irrigation restrictions)
Well #1 or Well #5 at or below 6.75     3. Restrict hand car washing to 2 days
feet                                    per week
                                        4. Ornamental/decorative fountain water
                                        ban
                                        5. Swimming pools may be topped off,
                                        but new pools may not be filled
                                        6. Bulk sales for golf course use are
                                        limited to 10,000 gallons, 3 days per
                                        week
Stage 3
                                        All Stage 2 measures with additional or
                                        replacement steps below
                                        1. Ban all residential and commercial
                                        grass common area watering
                                        2. Golf courses limited to tee boxes
                                        and greens may be watered daily with
                                        raw lake water or treated District
                                        supplied water
Well #1 or Well #5 at or below 6 feet   3. Trees, shrubs and other perennial
                                        landscape plans may be hand watered
                                        once per week maximum
                                        4. Prohibit sewer flushing from
                                        hydrants except as deemed necessary for
                                        health purposes
                                        5. Fees for hydrant meter use for water
                                        haulers doubled. Fill station cost
                                        doubled
                                        6. Water surcharge
Restrictions will be imposed as well levels decline and will be rescinded as
well levels recover. The Manager is authorized to impose and rescind the above
restrictions. Notice of the actions of the Manager will be posted on the
District website, and news releases will be sent to the local media.
 
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.08 WATER SURCHARGE.
 
Rate Component       Water Surcharge Percentage
Meter charge         0%
0-5,000 gallons      0%
5,000-10,000 gallons 10%
Above 10,000 gallons 20%
 
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any retail water service customer of the District who violates
any provision of this chapter regulating the use of water shall be subject to
the following administrative penalties:
         (a)   First conviction: $50 per occurrence;
         (b)   Second conviction: $250 per occurrence; and
         (c)   Third conviction: $1,000 per occurrence.
      (2)   Each day upon which a violation occurs shall be deemed to be a
separate occurrence. Payment of said administrative penalty shall be made to
the District within 14 days of the violator’s receipt of a notice of violation.
If no payment is made within 14 days, then said administrative penalty shall be
added to the next monthly utility billing for the location where the violation
occurred. If customers who are issued a notice of violation so wish, they may
dispute the issuance of the notice of violation. Such customers must state
their intent to dispute the penalty in writing to the Board of Trustees within
the time allotted for payment of their administrative penalty. Such customers
shall be entitled, upon request, to a hearing before a hearing officer
appointed by the Board of Trustees to dispute the administrative penalty.
   (B)   All funds collected pursuant to the above administrative penalties
shall be deposited into a special revenue account established by the Board of
Trustees of the District. The funds shall be used for the purpose of paying for
the administrative costs of enforcement of this chapter. Upon the cancellation
by the District of the water use restrictions in §
31.07, any funds remaining in such special revenue account shall be transferred
to the General Revenue Account of the District.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
TITLE IV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
      
40.   FIRE HYDRANT INSTALLATION
      
41.   WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS
      
42.   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
CHAPTER 40: FIRE HYDRANT INSTALLATION
Section
   
40.01   Application required
   
40.02   Construction
   
40.03   District ownership and maintenance
§ 40.01 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Persons desiring to have a fire hydrant on property located in the District
and connected to the District’s water system will make application therefor to
the District. All costs of procurement, installation and connection of the fire
hydrants, including right-of-way acquisition, materials, labor, engineering
services and inspection fees, and a fee of 10% of all material costs, payable
to the District for their services and expense, shall be borne by the persons
desiring the extension. Sufficient funds to pay all of said costs shall be
deposited with the District before construction is commenced. No separate tap-
on fee will be charged.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-9-1976)
§ 40.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   Construction shall be under the supervision of the District. Complete
construction plans, together with a contract for the installation of the
hydrant, with such performance bond provisions as may be required by the
District and executed by a contractor acceptable to the District, must be
submitted to and approved by the District before construction is started.
Parties desiring the hydrant must satisfy all requirements of all governmental
agencies.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-9-1976)
§ 40.03 DISTRICT OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE.
   When all requirements for procurement, installation and connection of the
fire hydrant have been fulfilled, then, upon completion of the project to the
satisfaction of the District and the acceptance of same by the District, the
fire hydrant with all connecting installations shall become the property of the
District and be maintained by it.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-9-1976)
CHAPTER 41: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS
Section
   
41.01   Project initiation
   
41.02   Water District to supervise all construction
   
41.03   Deposit required
   
41.04   Extensions at District direction
   
41.05   Tap-on fees
   
41.06   Privilege fees; reimbursement of extension amounts
   
41.07   District ownership and maintenance
   
41.08   Effective date
§ 41.01 PROJECT INITIATION.
   Water main extension projects may be initiated by the Water District Board
of Trustees or by entering into contracts for water main extensions with
property owners desiring to extend a water main to their property. No water
main extension will be approved which does not provide for at least one new
water user subject to and liable for the regular monthly water charges.
   (A)   Intergovernmental agreement. All water main extension projects which
are located within the District’s territory and annexed to the City of
Springfield after September 23, 2009, or subject to an annexation agreement
with the City of Springfield entered into after September 23, 2009, or within
one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the City of Springfield, but
not within the corporate limits of another municipality, are further subject to
the terms and conditions contained within the intergovernmental agreement
between the Water District and the City of Springfield dated June 7, 2010
(“intergovernmental agreement”) and attached to the ordinance codified in this
chapter as Exhibit A.
   (B)   Extensions on private property.
      (1)   All costs of water main extensions not located along township,
county or state highways, including right-of-way and easement acquisition,
eminent domain costs, filing fees, materials, labor, engineering services and
engineering and inspection fees and other expenses incurred by the Water
District in connection with approving plans for the extension, and inspecting
the construction and installation, shall be borne by the property owners
requesting the extension.
      (2)   Before construction of such a water main extension begins,
permanent easements of at least 60 feet in width on nonpublic roadways,
centered on the centerline of such roadways and temporary easements of at least
60 feet in width and permanent easements at least 40 feet in width where the
water main will not be along a roadway, will be granted to the Water District
for the purpose of the construction, operation and maintenance of waterworks
equipment, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Water mains;
         (b)   Valves;
         (c)   Hydrants; and
         (d)   Water service lines, up to and including water meters and pits,
along with any other waterworks equipment the Water District believes is
necessary for the efficient operation of the Water District.
      (3)   Legal descriptions and licensed surveyors’ drawings of the
easements shall be submitted to the Water District Board for approval, along
with title insurance commitments or other evidence of clear title in the
proposed easement areas.
   (C)   Public right-of-way.
      (1)   It is the District’s preference that all water mains be installed
on permanent easements outside public rights-of-way. If the water main
extension is located along a township, county or state highway and the Water
District approves the extension, all costs of water main extensions, including
easement acquisition, eminent domain costs, filing fees, materials, labor,
engineering services and engineering and inspection fees and other expenses
incurred by the Water District in connection with approving plans for the
extension, and inspecting the construction and installation, shall be borne by
the property owners requesting the extension.
      (2)   Before construction of such a water main extension begins,
temporary easements of at least 60 feet in width and permanent easements at
least 20 feet in width where the water main will be along a public roadway will
be granted to the Water District for the purpose of the construction, operation
and maintenance of waterworks equipment, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Water mains;
         (b)   Valves;
         (c)   Hydrants; and
         (d)   Water service lines, up to and including water meters and pits,
along with any other waterworks equipment the Water District believes is
necessary for the efficient operation of the Water District.
      (3)   Legal descriptions and licensed surveyors’ drawings of the
easements shall be submitted to the Water District Board for approval, along
with title insurance commitments or other evidence of clear title in the
proposed easement areas.
   (D)   If the Water District determines that the extension will benefit the
water distribution system and the Water District, and that funds for same are
available, it may approve a cost sharing of the extension. When a main larger
than eight inches is necessary for the system and required by the Water
District, the Water District may approve a cost sharing of the additional cost
required for the larger main if funds for it are available.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 41.02 WATER DISTRICT TO SUPERVISE ALL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Construction shall be under the supervision of the Water District or
its designee. The construction must be done by the Water District or its
designee unless the Water District’s time frame for initiating and completing
the construction is unacceptable to the property owner. In this instance, the
property owner(s) may engage a qualified and licensed contractor, which is
acceptable to the Water District (“contractor”), at his, her or their own
expense to complete the construction work.
   (B)   (1)   The District’s prevailing Wage Rate Ordinance does not apply to
a contractor engaged by a private entity for the construction of a water main
extension prior to the transfer of ownership of the water main to the District.
If the construction project will be done by a contractor, complete construction
plans conforming as nearly as possible to the existing system, together with a
contract for the extension containing adequate insurance coverage, performance
and maintenance bond provisions, and executed by a Contractor acceptable to the
Water District, must be submitted to and approved by the Water District before
construction is started.
      (2)   The property owners desiring the extension shall satisfy all
requirements of the State Department of Public Health, the State Environmental
Protection Agency and all other governmental agencies.
   (C)   In locations where applicable, subject to the terms of the
intergovernmental agreement, the City of Springfield may be requested by CGTPWD
to act jointly with CGTPWD or as its designee to perform and supervise the
construction work contemplated by this contract or to provide water to property
owners.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 41.03 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Sufficient funds to pay the property owners’ extension costs,
including the estimated engineering and inspection fees and expense of the
Water District, as determined by said Water District, shall be deposited with
the Water District before construction is commenced by the Water District or
its designee.
   (B)   Upon completion of the extension, complete itemized cost data shall be
filed with the Water District, together with the names and addresses of the
property owners sharing in the cost, a description of the property of each and
the proportion in which each shared the cost.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 41.04 EXTENSIONS AT DISTRICT DIRECTION.
   When the Water District desires to add a water main extension to its system
at its own cost, it may give to those persons owning property adjacent to the
proposed extension, subject to the restrictions contained in the
intergovernmental agreement, the right to tap onto the main by paying a pro
rata share of the extension costs based on the amount of their front footage
adjacent to the extension (“extension amount”).
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 41.05 TAP-ON FEES.
   (A)   (1)   No tap-on fee will be charged for a tap-on to property, the
owners of which paid an extension amount (“extension owners” or singularly as
“extension owner”), when the tap-on is made at the time of the construction;
provided, that the extension amount paid by the extension owner involved is in
excess of $2,500.
      (2)   Provided there is at least one new water user subject to and liable
for the regular monthly water charges, the extension owners may provide for
other water services at that time by paying for and installing all service
fittings from the water main to the meter pit, tapping saddle, corporation
stop, copper tubing, yoke, pit and cover.
   (B)   Meters will be paid for but kept at the water plant until a water
application is received for each service. After receiving a completed
application, the Water District or its designee will install a meter and begin
monthly billings.
   (C)   This section applies to both extensions initiated by the property
owner and by the Water District.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 41.06 PRIVILEGE FEES; REIMBURSEMENT OF EXTENSION AMOUNTS.
   (A)   (1)   If the Water District grants permission for a tap or to supply
water to property, whether owned or not owned by the extension owners, but on a
property legally different from the property owned by the extension owners, or
legally subdivided from the property owned by the extension owners, then the
Water District will charge the new customer for said permission a charge,
referred to as the privilege fee, in addition to the customary tapping fees
existing as of the date of the tap.
      (2)   The privilege fees will be used to assist in reimbursing extension
owners or their successors in ownership of the subject properties for their
extension amounts previously paid.
   (B)   The right to reimbursement of an extension amount runs with the land
and for the benefit of whomever the current property owner is of the land which
was originally owned by the extension owner(s). The reimbursement of the
extension amount from privilege fees shall be paid to whomever the current
property owner is of the land which was originally owned by the extension owner
(s) hereafter until 100% of the extension amount paid by the extensions owner
(s) has been reimbursed, or until the expiration of 12 years from the date of
the main extension, whichever such event shall first occur; and thereafter the
Water District, subject to the restrictions contained in the intergovernmental
agreement, may grant permits to tap on said extended water main or to make
connection thereto with or without collecting any additional compensation in
its sole discretion and without the customer having any interest, right or
title therein whatsoever.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 41.07 DISTRICT OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE.
   When all requirements for the extension have been fulfilled, then upon
completion of the construction to the satisfaction of the Water District and
the acceptance of the extension by the Water District, the extension shall
become the property of the Water District and be maintained by it, except as
otherwise provided in the intergovernmental agreement.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 41.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter shall take effect on December 14,
2010. It shall be published one time in a newspaper published in Sangamon
County and having general circulation in the Water District at least ten days
prior to its effective date.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-16-2010)
CHAPTER 42: GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
Section
   
42.01   Purpose
   
42.02   Definitions
   
42.03   Prohibitions
   
42.04   Waivers, exceptions and certifications of minimal hazard
   
42.05   Exception
§ 42.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by 415 ILCS 5/14.2 and 5/14.3 and in the
interest of securing the public health, safety and welfare; to preserve the
quality and quantity of groundwater resources in order to assure a safe and
adequate water supply for present and future generations; and to preserve
groundwater resources currently in use and those aquifers having a potential
for future use as a public water supply, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all properties located within the minimum setback zone established
under § 14.2 of the Environmental Protection Act (Act) (415 ILCS 5/14.2) and
this chapter, and the maximum setback zone established under § 14.3 of the Act
(415 ILCS 5/14.3) and this chapter.
(Ord. 62, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 42.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definition of words or terms in this
chapter shall be the same as those used in the State Groundwater Protection Act
(415 ILCS 55/1 et seq.); and the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1).
   AGENCY. The State Environmental Protection Agency.
   BOARD. The State Pollution Control Board.
   DISTRICT. The Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.3 of the Act and this chapter and described in Appendix
A of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.2 of the Act and this chapter and described in Appendix
A of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 62, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 42.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
42.04 or
42.05, no person shall place a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route within the minimum setback zone.
   (B)   Except as provided otherwise in §
42.04, no person shall place a new potential primary source within the 1,000
foot maximum setback zone.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
42.04, no person shall place a new potential route within the 2,500-foot
maximum setback zone.
(Ord. 62, passed 10-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 42.04 WAIVERS, EXCEPTIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS OF MINIMAL HAZARD.
   (A)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(b) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source, new potential secondary source or new potential route is
granted a waiver by the Agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a waiver of
the same extent from §
42.03(A).
   (B)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source (other than landfilling or land treating), a new potential
secondary course or new potential route is granted an exception by the Board,
such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent from §
42.03(A).
   (C)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source (other than landfilling or land treating) is granted an
exception by the Board, such other shall be deemed to have an exception to the
same extent from §
42.03(B).
   (D)   If, pursuant to § 14.5 of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source, new potential secondary source or new potential route is issued
a certificate of minimal hazard by the Agency, such owner shall not be subject
to §
42.03(A) to the same extent that such owner is not subject to § 14.2(d) of the
Act.
(Ord. 62, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 42.05 EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Section
42.03(A) shall not apply to new common sources of sanitary pollution as
specified pursuant to § 17 of the Act and the regulations adopted thereunder by
the Agency; however, no such common sources may be located within the
applicable minimum distance from a community water supply well specified by
such regulations.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall apply to facilities owned by and
operated by the District on the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 62, passed 10-11-2011)
TITLE V: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
Chapter
      
50.   SPRINGFIELD TOWNSHIP AGREEMENT
      
51.   SOUTH SANGAMON WATER COMMISSION AGREEMENTS
      
52.   VILLAGE OF LOAMI AGREEMENT
      
53.   SPRINGFIELD METRO SANITARY DISTRICT AGREEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SPRINGFIELD TOWNSHIP AGREEMENT
Section
   
50.01   Recitals
   
50.02   Approval of agreement
§ 50.01 RECITALS.
   (A)   Springfield Township and the Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water
District wish to seek a CDAP Public Facilities Construction Grant to extend
water service to approximately 101 new families, 66% of which are of low to
moderate income within Springfield and Gardner Townships.
   (B)   Springfield Township and the Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water
District agree to cooperate with another to secure funding for the above water
extension.
   (C)   An application to the State Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity requires an intergovernmental cooperation agreement.
   (D)   It is in the best interest of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public
Water District that an Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement be entered into
with Springfield Township for the above improvements.
(Ord. 43, passed - -)
§ 50.02 APPROVAL OF AGREEMENT.
   The Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District Board of Trustees hereby
approves the intergovernmental cooperation agreement attached to the ordinance
codified in this section.
(Ord. 43, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: SOUTH SANGAMON WATER COMMISSION AGREEMENTS
Section
Potable Water
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Authority
   
51.03   General provisions
   
51.04   Conditions of service
   
51.05   Metering
   
51.06   Rates
   
51.07   District’s responsibility for bills
   
51.08   Water and customer restrictions
   
51.09   Effective date and term
   
51.10   Consultations and exchanges of information
   
51.11   Procedures for initiating service to a District main; main extensions
and relocation
   
51.12   Dispute resolution
   
51.13   Additional provisions
Water Plant and Well Field Operation
   
51.25   Purpose
   
51.26   Definitions
   
51.27   Management
   
51.28   Staffing
   
51.29   Responsibilities of Commission
   
51.30   Compensation
   
51.31   Effective date and term
   
51.32   Duty to negotiate
   
51.33   Dispute resolution
   
51.34   Additional provisions
   
51.35   Scope of work
POTABLE WATER
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   The Board of Trustees of the District, for the purpose of an interconnection
between Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District (“District”), an
Illinois Water District and unit of local government, and South Sangamon Water
Commission (“Commission”), an Illinois public and municipal corporation,
whereby the District may purchase potable water from commission at bulk rates
to be agreed upon by the two entities, adopts the agreement codified in this
subchapter (“agreement”).
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.02 AUTHORITY.
   This agreement is authorized and is entered into pursuant to Division 135 of
the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-135-1 et seq. (“Division 135”), the
State Public Water District Act, 70 ILCS 3705/0.01 et seq., the
Intergovernmental Cooperation Article of the Illinois Constitution, being
Article VII, § 10 and the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, being ILCS 220/
1 et seq., all of which are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   During the term of this agreement and subject to the terms of this
agreement, the Commission shall sell to the District, and the District shall
purchase from the Commission, potable water to be resold by the District to
retail customers of the District’s water system.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.04 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The water shall meet applicable purity standards of the State EPA.
Delivery points shall be as determined by the parties from time to time. Water
shall only be delivered to a main or mains owned by the District and permitted
by the IEPA. Each delivery point shall be separately metered.
   (B)   Emergency failures of pressure or supply due to main supply line
breaks, power failure, flood, fire, use of water to fight fires, earthquake or
other events beyond the control of the Commission shall excuse the Commission
from this provision for such reasonable period of time as may be necessary to
restore service.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.05 METERING.
   (A)   The District shall be responsible at its sole expense for installing
the meter at the delivery points agreed on by the parties from time to time.
The Commission shall own the meter and all water mains and works on its side
thereof and shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement thereof.
   (B)   (1)   The District shall own all water mains and works on its side of
the meter and shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement thereof. The
Commission shall calibrate the meter from time to time at its discretion or
upon the request of the District, but not more frequently than once every 12
months.
      (2)   A meter registering not more than 2% above or below the test result
shall be deemed to be accurate. The previous readings of any meter disclosed by
test to be inaccurate shall be corrected for the six months previous to such
test in accordance with the percentage of inaccuracy found by such tests.
   (C)   If any meter fails to register for any period, the amount of water
furnished during such period shall be deemed to be the amount of water
delivered in the corresponding period immediately prior to the failure, unless
the parties agree upon a different amount.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.06 RATES.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 5 of Division 135, the Commission shall from time to
time establish such charges and rates for water supplied to the District and to
the Commission member’s municipalities as will be sufficient at all times:
      (1)   To pay the cost of operation and maintenance of the common source
of supply of water;
      (2)   To provide an adequate depreciation fund therefor;
      (3)   To pay the principal of and interest on the bonds issued by the
Commission;
      (4)   To comply with the covenants of the ordinance or resolution
authorizing the issuance of such bonds; and
      (5)   To carry out the corporate purposes and powers of the Commission
pursuant to Division 135.
   (B)   The price charged to the District for water at the delivery point
shall be the same as the price charged to municipalities which are members of
the Commission. However, the parties may negotiate a surcharge where there are
extraordinary capital expenses associated with a particular proposed new
connection or District customer. The Commission shall give the District at
least 60 days’ prior notice of any rate adjustment.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.07 DISTRICT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR BILLS.
   The District shall pay the charges and rates established by the Commission
for the sale of water by the Commission to the District. Water delivered to the
District will be billed monthly and paid within 30 days and will bear interest
at 1% per month if not paid within 30 days. If the District contests a bill, it
shall nevertheless pay the bill, and the parties shall promptly consult
pursuant to §
51.12 to determine if any refund is appropriate.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.08 WATER AND CUSTOMER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Due to drought, equipment failures, acts of God or other reasons, the
Commission may from time to time impose rationing or other restrictions on its
wholesale and retail customers. In such event, and upon the Commission’s
request, the District shall impose similar restrictions on the District’s
retail customers on mains served by the Commission. The Commission may, during
periods of announced shortages and rationing, curtail the amounts of water
delivered to the District, but only after consultation with the District, and
only in a nondiscriminatory manner. Whenever, during a curtailment situation,
the Commission declares a moratorium on new retail customers, the District
shall do the same along mains served by the Commission.
   (B)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Commission, the water treatment plant
is nearing or at capacity, it may restrict the District from adding new
customers along the District’s mains served by the Commission until the
Commission can add treatment capacity to its plant. Such restrictions, if
imposed, shall also apply to all other member municipalities and wholesale
customers of the Commission, and the Commission itself shall add no new retail
customers during any period during which such restrictions are in effect.
   (C)   The Commission shall give the District at least ten (10) days prior
notice of any scheduled maintenance (such as tank cleaning) which would require
the cessation of operations at the treatment plant, and the parties shall
cooperate in arranging storage of water supplies anticipated to be needed
during any such period of scheduled maintenance.
   (D)   The District shall enact and enforce the current version of the State
EPA model cross-connection control ordinance as to all customers on mains
supplied by the Commission.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.09 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM.
   (A)   This agreement shall become effective on the date the IEPA issues all
required operating permits for the Commission’s water treatment plant and the
treatment plant commences operation. The initial term of the agreement shall be
through December 31, 2040.
   (B)   After expiration of the initial or any extended or renewal term, this
agreement shall automatically renew in successive five-year increments unless,
at least three years before the expiration of the original term or any extended
or renewal term, either party serves written notice upon the other of an
intention not to renew.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.10 CONSULTATIONS AND EXCHANGES OF INFORMATION.
   During the term of this agreement, each party shall provide the other with
such data and usage forecasts as either party may reasonably require for its
planning purposes. Either party may inspect the books and records of the other
at reasonable times and places, insofar as such books and records relate to the
subject matter of this agreement and without the necessity for a formal request
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 U.S.C. § 552. Each party to
this agreement shall consult with the other whenever requested to do so.
   (A)   The parties recognize that there are potential customers adjacent or
near to Commission mains, located within the boundaries of the District, that
can be more economically served by the Commission than by the District. Such
potential customers may be served by the Commission if, after consultation with
the Commission, the District is unable or unwilling to provide service through
a District main and the customer may be served by a direct tap to a Commission
main. The District shall serve no customers who or which are directly tapped to
a Commission main.
   (B)   Outside the territorial limits of the District, the Commission may
serve retail customers without prior consultation with the District. The
District also may serve customers outside the territorial limits of the
District with water provided by the Commission through a District main;
however, the member municipalities of the Commission shall have a right of
first refusal to serve any customer through its own mains within a two-mile
radius of their respective corporate limits.
   (C)   In the event a member municipality of the Commission should annex
customers served by the District that are extraterritorial to the District with
water provided by the Commission pursuant to this Agreement, or the customers
shall become parties to an annexation agreement with one of the Commission
member’s municipalities, the District shall offer to work with the municipality
for the sale of the District’s extraterritorial mains and works within the area
to be annexed to the member municipality at a price to be agreed upon. Such
agreement shall include the necessary provisions to address additional master
meter location installations and costs, individual and master meter reading
responsibilities and similar related items. Mains and works within the District
will not be required to be sold as a part of this agreement.
   (D)   In the event of a conflict between this section and any wholesale
water contract between the Commission and its member municipalities in effect
as of the date of this agreement, the contract with the member municipality
shall prevail.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.11 PROCEDURES FOR INITIATING SERVICE TO A DISTRICT MAIN; MAIN EXTENSIONS
AND RELOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the District intends to construct a main and install a
master meter and to connect its main with the Commission’s mains, it shall
provide the Commission with an application for service accompanied by a map of
the proposed main and known customers thereon; a forecast of likely water
usage, such design information as may be requested by the Commission as will
enable it to forecast likely effects on water pressure and such other
information as may reasonably be requested by the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission shall promptly review the application, and the
application shall be granted if it conforms with this agreement and the
requested service will not unreasonably and adversely affect the Commission’s
system or supply, or the system or supply of member municipalities and other
existing customers. Although at the time of execution of this contract there
are no limitations on volumes of water which may be taken by the District, the
parties will negotiate volume limitations in good faith when requested by
either party.
   (B)   Whenever the District intends to extend an existing main that is
connected to the Commission’s system, it shall provide an application similar
to that set forth in division (A) above, but limited to the main extension. If
the main extension requires an upgrade of the meter, the upgrade shall be at
the District’s sole cost and expense.
   (C)   In the event the Commission relocates a main, necessitating the
relocation of a master meter serving a District main, the cost of relocating
the meter shall be borne by the Commission, but any costs of relocating the
District’s main shall be borne by the District.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.12 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Whenever there is a dispute between the parties, the parties shall
first consult together and attempt to resolve the dispute. Either party shall
have the privilege of directly addressing the corporate authorities of the
other party with respect to the dispute.
   (B)   Disputes that cannot be resolved by consultation shall be settled by
arbitration, in the following manner. The parties will attempt to agree on a
single arbitrator to decide the dispute. If they cannot agree on an arbitrator,
then each party will select an arbitrator, and the two arbitrators so selected
shall select a third arbitrator, and the panel so composed shall decide the
dispute. Arbitrations shall be conducted and enforced pursuant to the State
Uniform Arbitration Act, being 710 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and the cost of
arbitration shall be divided equally by the parties. Notwithstanding the duty
to arbitrate, in the event of a breach of contract which, in the absence of the
arbitration clause would give rise to the right of a party to apply for a
temporary restraining order, either party may apply to the Circuit Court of the
Seventh Judicial Circuit, Sangamon County, Illinois, for a temporary
restraining order maintaining the status quo pending referral of the matter to
arbitration.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 51.13 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This is the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its
subject matter. All oral representations regarding this agreement prior to the
date hereof are expressly disclaimed. This agreement is effective upon approval
by ordinance of each party and signed by the District Chairperson and the
Chairperson of the Commission.
   (B)   All modifications to this agreement shall be in writing and shall be
effective only when approved by ordinance and signed by the District President
and the Chairperson of the Commission. The headings in this agreement are for
convenience only and are not substantive parts of this agreement.
   (C)   This agreement shall be governed in accordance with state law. In the
event any portion of this agreement is unenforceable, such shall not affect the
enforceability of the remainder of the agreement.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-12-2011)
WATER PLANT AND WELL FIELD OPERATION
§ 51.25 PURPOSE.
   The agreement codified in this subchapter (“agreement”) is between the South
Sangamon Water Commission (“Commission”), an Illinois public and municipal
corporation organized and existing pursuant to Division 135 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-135-1 et seq. and the Curran-Gardner Townships
Public Water District (“District”), an Illinois public corporation and unit of
government organized and existing pursuant to the State Public Water District
Act , being 701 ILCS 3705/0.01 et seq.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE and OPERATIONS.
      (1)   Includes doing all things necessary for the operation of the water
plant and set forth in a scope of work in §
51.35.
      (2)   OPERATE and OPERATIONS do not include the performance of
maintenance activities other than routine preventive maintenance and
replacement of expendables; nor does it include activities required to comply
with the Commission’s duties under the conservation reserve program; but it
does include the management and overall supervision of maintenance activities
for which the Commission contracts with third parties.
   WATER PLANT.
      (1)   The Commission’s water plant located at Buckhart and Leach Roads in
Sangamon County, Illinois and the well fields located approximately one mile
north thereof.
      (2)   The District’s responsibilities pursuant to this contract are
limited to areas within the 12-acre plant site and the portion of the well
field (wells, platforms, roads and transmissions mains) devoted to the
production and transmission of water.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.27 MANAGEMENT.
   During the term of this agreement, the District shall manage operations at
the water plant on behalf of the Commission, subject to the terms and
conditions of this agreement.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.28 STAFFING.
   (A)   (1)   The District shall provide the Commission with a Business and
Operations Manager, who shall have the authority, among other things, to enter
into contracts on behalf of the Commission and otherwise commit the Commission
for expenditures of up to $10,000 per occurrence without prior consultation
with the Commissioners.
      (2)   The Business and Operations Manager shall:
         (a)   Manage operations at the water plant within the current budget
of the Commission;
         (b)   Report monthly on plant activities to the Commission at the
Commission’s regular meetings or special meetings as appropriate;
         (c)   Consult as appropriate with the Chairperson of the Commission
with respect to management of the water plant;
         (d)   Assist the Commission in the preparation of budgets and
appropriations; and
         (e)   Order and account for supplies, chemicals and expendables.
      (3)   The parties contemplate that the position of Business and
Operations Manager is a part-time position and that the Business and Operations
Manager will also be the Business and Operations Manager of the District’s own
water production operations as well as the licensed operator for other water
systems.
      (4)   The Business and Operations Manager shall be an agent of the
Commission and may hold himself or herself out to third parties as such.
   (B)   (1)   The District, through the Business and Operations Manager, will
staff the water plant with sufficient personnel with appropriate licenses and
training to operate the water plant in a proper and efficient manner and in
accordance with its IEPA operational permit and all applicable state and
federal regulations.
      (2)   (a)   The District shall designate certain of its employees to have
primary responsibilities with respect to the water plant. However, the District
may from time to time utilize others of its employees in water plant operations
and may from time to time utilize the employees regularly used at the water
plant for its own operations.
         (b)   Initially, the parties contemplate that the water plant will
require two full time equivalent employees, but the District may from time to
time require more or less personnel to perform the operations.
      (3)   The District shall account for the time of its employees detailed
to the water plant and shall bill the Commission monthly for such employees in
accordance with §
51.30.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.29 RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The services provided by the District pursuant to this contract are
limited to providing personnel and expertise necessary for the water plant
operations and only within the confines of the water plant.
   (B)   All expenses of the water plant shall be borne by the Commission,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Tools and vehicles used within the water plant;
      (2)   Disposal of brine through a contracts with third parties;
      (3)   Chemicals and expendables;
      (4)   Spare parts;
      (5)   Maintenance;
      (6)   Electricity and other utilities;
      (7)   SCADA and other data systems;
      (8)   EPA-required testing; and
      (9)   All expenses of the water system outside the water plant, such as
transmission lines and booster stations, meter reading and billing functions.
   (C)   The Business and Operations Manager shall assist the Commission in
identifying and securing sources of supply and contracts for the above
activities.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.30 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   In consideration of its services, the Commission shall pay the sum of
$12,000 each month. Said sum will include the services of the part-time
Business and Operations Manager, one full-time employee who is the holder of a
Class A license and an additional part-time employee. In addition, the District
will carry out the duties previously described herein regarding plant
operations.
   (B)   Changes to the District staff and staff compensation are anticipated
to occur over the duration of the agreement. To address these anticipated
changes the District will provide the Commission with requested adjustment to
the initial compensation amount noted in division (A) above by July 1 of each
year for the Commission’s review and approval, and the approved revised
compensation amount will become effective on January 1 thereafter.
   (C)   The District shall bill the Commission monthly for such personnel
expenses; bills shall be approved and paid at the next Commission meeting
following the rendering of the bill. If a bill is disputed, the undisputed
portion shall be paid while the parties resolve the disputed portion in
accordance with procedures set forth in §
51.33.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.31 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM.
   (A)   (1)   This agreement shall become effective on the date the Commission
begins final acceptance testing for the water plant, which is anticipated to be
on or about November 15, 2011.
      (2)   The initial term of the agreement shall be through December 31,
2016.
   (B)   After expiration of the initial or any extended or renewal term, this
agreement shall automatically renew in successive five-year increments unless,
at least 18 months before the expiration of the original term or any extended
or renewal term, either party serves written notice upon the other of an
intention not to renew.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.32 DUTY TO NEGOTIATE.
   (A)   The parties acknowledge that the water plant is a startup operation
and that there are unknowns with respect to the need for staffing and the scope
of duties required for the efficient operation of the water plant.
   (B)   Should the initial staffing levels and scope of duties as set forth in
this agreement require modification in view of the parties’ experience, the
parties agree to negotiate modifications in good faith.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.33 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Whenever there is a dispute between the parties, the parties shall
first consult together and attempt to resolve the dispute. Either party shall
have the privilege of directly addressing the corporate authorities of the
other party with respect to the dispute.
   (B)   Disputes that cannot be resolved by consultation shall be settled by
arbitration in the following manner.
      (1)   The parties will attempt to agree on a single arbitrator to decide
the dispute.
      (2)   If they cannot agree on an arbitrator, then each party will select
an arbitrator, and the two arbitrators so selected shall select a third
arbitrator, and the panel so composed shall decide the dispute.
      (3)   Arbitrations shall be conducted and enforced pursuant to the State
Uniform Arbitration Act, being 710 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and the cost of
arbitration shall be divided equally by the parties.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.34 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This is the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its
subject matter. All oral representations regarding this agreement prior to the
date hereof are expressly disclaimed.
   (B)   (1)   This agreement is effective upon approval by ordinance of each
party and signed by the District Chairperson and the Chairperson of the
Commission.
      (2)   All modifications to this agreement shall be in writing and shall
be effective only when approved by ordinance and signed by the District
President and the Chairperson of the Commission.
   (C)   The headings in this agreement are for convenience only and are not
substantive parts of this agreement.
   (D)   This agreement shall be governed in accordance with state law.
   (E)   In the event any portion of this agreement is unenforceable, such
shall not affect the enforceability of the remainder of the agreement.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 51.35 SCOPE OF WORK.
   The scope of work of this agreement shall include:
   (A)   Management of all operations of the water plant, including wellfield;
   (B)   Development and refinement of O&M and emergency manual and procedures;
   (C)   Assistance with startup activities;
   (D)   Recommendations to the Commission for scheduled maintenance and
upgrades;
   (E)   Preventive maintenance, including membrane filters;
   (F)   Ordering of supplies, spare parts, chemicals and expendables in
consultation with the Commission Chairperson, staff and officer personnel;
   (G)   Sampling per IEPA regulations;
   (H)   Consultation with the Commission Chairperson and staff as appropriate;
   (I)   Coordination with third parties involved in Commission operations,
including, but not limited to, CRP Manager, Village of Chatham and New Berlin
Water Superintendents and brine hauling vendors; and
   (J)   Assist the Commission in negotiation of third party maintenance
contracts and management and supervision of such contracts.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-25-2011)
CHAPTER 52: VILLAGE OF LOAMI AGREEMENT
Section
   
52.01   Recitals
   
52.02   General provisions
   
52.03   Water main
   
52.04   Ownership and maintenance
   
52.05   Engineering
   
52.06   Construction responsibilities
   
52.07   Service to be furnished
   
52.08   Quality
   
52.09   Costs and payments
   
52.10   Metering
   
52.11   Defaults
   
52.12   Notices
   
52.13   Governing of agreement; modifications; challenges
   
52.14   Map
§ 52.01 RECITALS.
   The following recitals are incorporated into this agreement.
   (A)   Springfield owns and operates a water source, treatment facility and
water distribution network in Springfield, Illinois.
   (B)   Curran-Gardner owns and operates a water source, treatment facility
and water distribution network in its District.
   (C)   Loami operates a water distribution network and currently receives its
water from Springfield delivered to Loami via the Village of Chatham, Illinois
water distribution network.
   (D)   Loami desires to obtain an alternate point of connection with the
Springfield water system.
   (E)   Such an alternate connection could be made through the construction of
water mains from the Springfield system, through the Curran-Gardner District to
a point of connection with the Loami system.
   (F)   Springfield, under a separate intergovernmental agreement with Curran-
Gardner, effective June 7, 2010 (the Curran-Gardner/Springfield Agreement), can
provide water to Curran-Gardner for its use in areas of the Curran-Gardner
Townships Public Water District not presently served from the existing
facilities of Curran-Gardner.
   (G)   Pursuant to § 9 of the Public Water District Act (70 ILCS 3705/9),
Curran-Gardner may be authorized to construct, maintain, alter and extend its
water mains as a proper use of highways along, upon, under and across any
highway, street, alley or public ground in the state, but so as not to
inconvenience the public use thereof, and may construct, maintain and operate
any conduit or conduits, water pipe or pipes, wholly or partially buried or
otherwise in, upon and along any of the lands owned by the State of Illinois
(the “state”) under any of the public waters therein; provided, that the right,
permissions and authority granted shall be subject to all public rights of
commerce and navigation and the authority of the United States on behalf of
such public rights, and also to the laws of the state to regulate and control
the same.
   (H)   Pursuant to § 10 of the Public Water District Act (70 ILCS 3705/10),
Curran-Gardner has the right to supply water to any municipality, provided the
water is delivered at the corporate limits of the Curran-Gardner District or
from such waterworks properties of Curran-Gardner located outside the Curran-
Gardner District that have been constructed or acquired as necessary and
incidental to the furnishing of water to the inhabitants of Curran-Gardner.
   (I)   Intergovernmental agreements are expressly allowed by Article VII, §
10 of the Illinois Constitution of 1970.
   (J)   Section 3 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (5 ILCS 220/3)
provides that any power or powers, privileges, functions or authority exercised
or which may be exercised by a public agency of the state may be exercised,
combined, transferred and enjoyed jointly with any other public agency of the
state except where specifically and expressly prohibited by law.
   (K)   Section 5 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (5 ILCS 220/5)
provides that any one or more public agencies may contract with any one or more
other public agencies to perform any governmental service, activity or
undertaking or to combine, transfer or exercise any powers, functions
privileges or authority which any of the public agencies entering into the
contract is authorized by law to perform, provided that such contract shall be
approved by the governing bodies of each party to the contract and except where
specifically and expressly prohibited by law, and provided that such a contract
shall set forth fully the purposes, powers, rights, objectives and
responsibilities of the contracting parties.
   (L)   In consideration of the mutual covenants and promises set forth in
this agreement, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,
and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereby agree as follows.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The agreement codified in this chapter (“agreement”) by and between the
Village of Loami (“Loami”), a municipal corporation of the State of Illinois,
the Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District (“Curran-Gardner”),
incorporated and organized under the laws of the State of Illinois and the City
of Springfield, Illinois (“Springfield”), a municipal corporation of the State
of Illinois, collectively referred to herein as the “parties” with respect to
water service. This agreement is made by authority of Article 7, § 10 of the
Illinois Constitution of 1970, and § 5 of the State Intergovernmental
Cooperation Act (5 ILCS 220/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.03 WATER MAIN.
   (A)   The parties agree to cooperate to construct a ten-inch minimum-sized
water main connecting the Springfield water distribution system at a point of
beginning located near Spaulding Orchard Road and Cockrell Lane with the
existing Loami pump station near Curran Road and Road 9 South (see §
52.14).
   (B)   The water main shall be divided into three sections as follows.
      (1)   Section 1 shall be on Spaulding Orchard Road from a point
approximately 2,190 feet west of Cockrell Lane to Curran Road.
      (2)   Section 2 shall be on Curran Road from Spaulding Orchard Road to
the Loami meter pit on the north side of Mansion Road.
      (3)   Section 3 shall be on Curran Road from the Loami meter pit on the
north side of Mansion Road to the Loami Pump Station.
   (C)   (1)   The cost of the water main shall include all labor, equipment
and materials to construct the water main in Sections 1, 2 and 3.
      (2)   Included in said cost shall be the installation of fire hydrants
and associated appurtenances located at approximately 2,000-foot intervals. The
water main and fittings shall be constructed of PVC C900 DR 18 quality
materials or better with ductile iron fittings.
      (3)   All materials used in the water main extension and appurtenances
shall meet or exceed the applicable American Water Works Association Standard.
Alternate materials must be approved by all parties.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.04 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Upon completion of the construction of the water main, Curran-Gardner
shall own and maintain Sections 1 and 2 of the water main; Loami shall own and
maintain Section 3 of the water main.
   (B)   Springfield shall own and maintain the meter vaults and associated
appurtenances as identified in §
52.10(B).
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.05 ENGINEERING.
   (A)   In consultation with Loami and Curran-Gardner, Springfield shall
design the water main and provide construction plans and specifications for the
water main. Loami and Curran-Gardner may review the plans and specifications
for conformance with the standards of Loami and Curran-Gardner.
   (B)   Springfield shall prepare the State Environmental Protection Agency
(IEPA) permit applications for execution by Loami and Curran-Gardner
authorities to obtain construction and operating permits for the water main.
Execution of the respective permit applications by Loami and Curran-Gardner
shall constitute acknowledgement by each entity that they are in agreement with
the plans and specifications.
   (C)   All other permits, such as highway or environmental authorizations,
shall be obtained by Curran-Gardner prior to construction.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.06 CONSTRUCTION RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Curran-Gardner agrees to be the general contractor for the
installation of the water main.
   (B)   Curran-Gardner agrees to obtain easements for the full length of the
water main installation in Sections 1 and 2. Curran-Gardner and Loami shall
work cooperatively to obtain easements for the full length for Section 3 of the
water main.
   (C)   Curran-Gardner agrees to provide or procure the labor and materials to
complete the water main installation in accordance with the procurement
requirements of Curran-Gardner.
   (D)   Springfield shall install the Curran-Gardner master meter facilities
near Cockrell Lane and Spaulding Orchard Road and shall also install the Loami
Meter facilities on Curran Road north of Mansion Road, providing ten feet of
water main stubbed out of each facility for Curran-Gardner to hook to with its
construction.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.07 SERVICE TO BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   Service furnished to Curran-Gardner by Springfield shall be according
to the terms of the Curran-Gardner/Springfield Agreement unless amended herein,
and service shall also be intended to provide a supply of potable water to be
conveyed through Sections 1 and 2 of the water main to Loami’s Section 3 of the
water main.
   (B)   Service furnished to Loami by Springfield shall be according to the
terms of a Loami/Springfield Agreement to be passed by the corporate
authorities of Loami and Springfield.
   (C)   Loami and Curran-Gardner each agrees that the water main developed
under this agreement and extensions thereof will carry only water provided by
Springfield unless another source of water is agreed upon by written agreement
of the parties.
   (D)   Any obligation of Springfield and Curran-Gardner to supply water
hereunder to Loami shall be fulfilled by reasonable diligence in procuring
labor or material to remedy any interruption in the provision of water to
Loami.
   (E)   This agreement shall be in force and continue in effect until December
31, 2052. The agreement shall automatically extend for additional five-year
periods unless notice is otherwise provided by a party to the other parties
three years prior to expiration of this agreement.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.08 QUALITY.
   (A)   The supply of water to be furnished hereunder to Curran-Gardner for
transfer in the water main to Loami during the period of this agreement shall
be as follows.
      (1)   Springfield agrees to provide water distribution capacity to the
Curran-Gardner water distribution system for supplying up to 140,000 gallons
per day at no more than 400 gallons per minute, over and above the amount
allotted to Curran-Gardner, for the sole purpose of serving Loami, maintained
at a pressure of not less than 25 pounds per square inch measured at ground
level at the Loami meter.
      (2)   It is understood and agreed by Loami, Curran-Gardner and
Springfield that in the event of a water shortage, act of God, natural disaster
or other circumstances beyond the control of Springfield or Curran-Gardner,
which would affect Springfield’s ability to provide water to Curran-Gardner or
Springfield’s or Curran-Gardner’s ability to provide water to Loami,
Springfield may impose restrictions on Curran-Gardner’s use of Springfield’s
water, or Springfield or Curran-Gardner may impose restrictions on Loami’s use
of Springfield’s water. Shortages affecting Springfield’s entire system shall
be shared proportionately among Springfield’s purchasers, and water
conservation measures imposed by Springfield on their retail customers shall
likewise be imposed by Curran-Gardner and Loami on their respective customers.
   (B)   Water delivered to Curran-Gardner, aside from that defined in division
(A) above, shall be per the conditions specified in the Curran-Gardner/
Springfield Agreement.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.09 COSTS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   An estimated cost of the water main shall be compiled, including all
labor, equipment and materials, to construct a ten-inch water main for Sections
1, 2 and 3. Included in said cost shall be the installation of fire hydrants
and associated appurtenances located at approximately 2,000-foot intervals.
   (B)   (1)   In consideration for Curran-Gardner wheeling water through its
system to Loami, Springfield shall waive the meter charge for the master meter
identified in §
52.10, which would otherwise be charged per the Curran-Gardner/Springfield
Agreement.
      (2)   Curran-Gardner shall not charge Loami or Springfield a fee to
convey water through Sections 1 and 2 of the water main.
   (C)   Curran-Gardner shall be responsible for the cost of upsizing of the
water main pipe to a minimum of 12-inch water main constructed in Sections 1
and 2, over and above the cost of the ten-inch water main. Curran-Gardner shall
also be responsible for the cost of fittings, including, but not limited to,
tees, crosses, valves and water main stubs and installation thereof for any
connections to the water main to provide service to areas other than Loami.
   (D)   The estimated cost of the water main shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   Curran-Gardner shall provide to Springfield and Loami a unit price
for the open-cut installation of the ten-inch water main. Said unit cost shall
be applied to the linear footage of the installation of the water main. Said
unit cost shall include the incidental installation of all necessary fittings,
valves, fire hydrants, offsets and appurtenances associated with this water
main for service to Loami.
      (2)   Curran-Gardner shall provide to Springfield and Loami a copy of the
bid unit prices for the boring of the ten-inch PVC water main. Said unit cost
shall be applied to the linear footage of the water main to be bored.
      (3)   Curran-Gardner shall provide to Springfield and Loami the bid unit
prices and material specification sheets for the ten-inch water main, ten-inch
valves, ten-inch couplings, fire hydrants, hydrant tees and other associated
fittings and appurtenances.
      (4)   Said unit costs provided as above shall be used by Springfield to
calculate the estimated cost of each section of water main to be installed,
with said estimated costs to be provided to each of the parties.
      (5)   (a)   Springfield shall have the option of accepting or rejecting
the estimated cost of Sections 1 and 2 of the water main.
         (b)   Loami shall have the option of accepting or rejecting the
estimated cost of Section 3 of the water main. Upon both Loami’s and
Springfield’s acceptance of the estimated costs of their respective sections of
the water main, the project shall move forward.
         (c)   If either Springfield rejects the cost of Sections 1 and 2 of
the water main or Loami rejects the estimated cost of Section 3 of the water
main, the project shall not move forward and this agreement shall become null
and void. Said acceptances or rejections of the estimated costs of the water
main shall be provided to all the parties within ten business days of receipt
of the estimated costs.
         (c)   Failure to provide an acceptance or rejection within the ten-
business-day time frame shall constitute a rejection of the estimated cost.
Each party recognizes that the estimated costs of the project shall be adjusted
to final costs after project cost accounting is completed, and said final costs
shall be the basis of reimbursements between the parties.
         (d)   The final costs will be determined by the summation of the final
quantities multiplied by their respective unit prices. Unless otherwise
approved by the parties, the bid unit prices used for the final cost
determinations shall be the same unit prices used for the estimated costs.
   (E)   Upon project acceptance by Loami and Springfield, and, upon receipt of
all easements for the pipeline route and receipt of all permits for the
pipeline construction, Curran-Gardner shall proceed in a workman-like manner to
complete installation of the water main. The project shall be fully operational
no later than December 31, 2013.
   (F)   (1)   Springfield shall reimburse Curran-Gardner for the labor,
equipment and materials cost at the accepted bid unit prices to construct the
ten-inch water main from the Springfield/Curran-Gardner master meter to the
Loami pump station.
      (2)   Curran-Gardner shall invoice Springfield for its installation of
the pipeline, no more frequently than every 30 days during construction.
Springfield shall provide payment to Curran-Gardner within 30 days of receipt
of the invoice.
      (3)   Loami shall reimburse Springfield for the cost of Section 3 of the
water main per the terms of the Loami/Springfield Agreement.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.10 METERING.
   (A)   (1)   A master meter (the Curran-Gardner Meter) shall meter all water
delivered from the water main to both Curran-Gardner and Loami and shall be
installed near the point of beginning with the Springfield system along
Spaulding Orchard Road approximately 2,190 feet west of Cockrell Lane.
      (2)   A second meter (the Loami Meter) shall be installed at a suitable
location near the intersection of Curran Road and Mansion Road north of Mansion
Road. The Loami meter reading shall be used by Springfield to bill Loami for
water use.
      (3)   The Loami meter reading shall be subtracted from the Curran-Gardner
meter reading and the result shall be used by Springfield to bill Curran-
Gardner for water use.
      (4)   The meter in the Loami pump station (the Old Loami Meter) that has
historically been used by Springfield to bill Loami shall no longer be a meter
of record for billing purposes once the water main is placed in service.
      (5)   The Old Loami Meter shall be retained by Loami and may remain in
place for Loami’s informational use.
   (B)   (1)   The control valves, meter(s), meter equipment, meter vaults,
valves and ten feet of water main outside the meter vault installed at the
metering locations noted in division (A) above shall at all times be under the
control of Springfield, and the full and complete protection of the meter,
meter equipment and meter vaults shall be the obligation of Springfield.
      (2)   The properly authorized officers, agents and representatives of
Loami and Curran-Gardner shall, at reasonable times, have free access to meter
vaults, meter control valves and meter equipment for the purpose of inspection
to ascertain that said equipment is in proper operating condition and is
accurately measuring the water flow.
      (3)   If, at any time, said meter(s) shall fail to register correctly the
quantity of water furnished and taken hereunder, or shall fail to register the
flow of water through said meter, the unregistered, under-registered or over-
registered amount of water furnished and taken shall be determined by taking an
average of the monthly readings of such meter for the previous 12-month period,
exclusive of deficient or excessive readings.
      (4)   Where said meter had been installed for a period of less than one
year or where less than 12 credible monthly readings exist, such average or
estimate may be based upon a lesser number than 12 monthly readings taken
preceding or subsequent to such increased or stopped registrations.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.11 DEFAULTS.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that one party believes another to be in default
under this agreement, that party, acting through its Chief Administrator, shall
notify the other party in writing of the specified default.
      (2)   If such default shall continue for a period of 60 days after the
service of written notice of such default, the Chief Utility Engineer of
Springfield’s Office of Public Utilities (or a designee), the Curran-Gardner
Board Chairperson (or a designee) and the President of Loami (or a designee)
shall meet jointly for the purpose of resolving the default.
   (B)   No waiver of any default shall be implied by the failure of either
party to give notice of default, and no express waiver shall affect any other
default except the one specified in the waiver. The non-defaulting parties are
entitled to all remedies at law.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.12 NOTICES.
   Any notice or communication permitted or required under the agreement shall
be in writing and shall become effective on the day of mailing thereof by first
class mail, registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to:
               Curran-Gardner Townships
               Public Water District
Curran-Gardner Attention: Board of Trustees
               3384 Hazlett Road
               Springfield, IL 62707
                   Curran-Gardner Townships
                   Public Water District
Curran-Gardner     Attention: Board of Trustees
                   3384 Hazlett Road
                   Springfield, IL 62707
                   Brown, Hay & Stephens, L.L.P.
   With a copy tAttention: Charles Y. Davis, Esq.
                   205 South Fifth Street
                   Springfield, IL 62705
                   Village of Loami
Loami              Attention: Mayor
                   P.O. Box 46
                   Loami, IL 62661
                   Sgro, Hanrahan & Durr, L.L.P.
   With a copy tAttention: Alex B. Rabin
                   1119 South Sixth Street
                   Springfield, IL 62701
                   City of Springfield
                   Office of Public Utilities
Springfield        Attention: Chief Utility Engineer
                   Fourth Floor, Municipal Center East
                   800 East Monroe
                   Springfield, IL 62757
                   Office of Corporation Counsel
   With a copy tRoom 323 Municipal Center East
                   800 East Monroe
                   Springfield, IL 62701
 
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.13 GOVERNING OF AGREEMENT; MODIFICATIONS; CHALLENGES.
   (A)   This agreement shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of
Loami, Curran-Gardner and Springfield and their respective governing bodies.
   (B)   This agreement is effective when duly approved by the corporate
authorities of each party and its execution by the chief executive officer of
each party and is further contingent upon execution of the Loami/Springfield
Agreement by Loami and Springfield.
   (C)   This agreement is the entire agreement between the parties with
respect to its subject matter, and all prior representations relating thereto
are expressly disclaimed.
   (D)   This agreement may be modified only in a writing approved by ordinance
of the corporate authorities of each party and signed by the Loami Village
President, the Chairperson of the Board of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public
Water District and the Mayor of Springfield.
   (E)   This agreement shall be governed in accordance with state law. In the
event any portion of this agreement is unenforceable, it shall not affect the
enforceability of the remainder of the agreement.
   (F)   The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting
of this agreement. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or
interpretation arises, this agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly
by the parties and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or
disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any of the provisions of
this agreement.
   (G)   In the event any third party challenges this agreement, the parties
shall jointly defend this agreement and shall share legal fees and expenses in
equal amounts, or as otherwise agreed by the parties.
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
§ 52.14 MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2904dc5df8aa26576fcc05651295a63e95aa12fd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-422.png]
 
(Ord. 64, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: SPRINGFIELD METRO SANITARY DISTRICT AGREEMENT
Section
   
53.01   Recitals
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Billing and collection services
   
53.04   Administrative fees
   
53.05   Rate Ordinance adopted by reference
   
53.06   Payments; monthly report
   
53.07   Past due amounts
   
53.08   Amounts to be collected
   
53.09   Turn-off of service; fees
   
53.10   Governing of agreement; renewal; termination
   
53.11   Notice
§ 53.01 RECITALS.
   (A)   The 1970 Constitution in Article VII, § 10 generally authorizes
intergovernmental cooperation and pursuant to that constitutional authority the
legislature has adopted an Intergovernmental Cooperation Act found in Chapter
127, §§ 741 et seq., being ILCS 220/1 et seq., under which authority this
agreement is made by and between the District and the Billing Agent for the
public purposes stated herein.
   (B)   Some of the territory lying within the boundaries of the Billing Agent
has been annexed into the District (service area).
   (C)   The District currently provides for the carrying off, disposal and
treatment of the sewage and industrial wastes within the service area.
   (D)   The Billing Agent provides water service to areas within the service
area.
   (E)   The Billing Agent currently bills its own customers for water service.
   (F)   The District wishes to engage the Billing Agent to provide billing and
collection services for the District and on behalf of the District, from the
sewage service users living within the service area (customers), to enhance
efficiency.
   (G)   It is mutually desirable for the Billing Agent and the District to
engage in this cooperative agreement to provide for the billing and collection
by the Billing Agent of the user charges and other fees, including
administrative fees for billing and collection services, charged by the
District (fees) by the customers in exchange for the administrative fees
described herein.
   (H)   The parties wish to provide for the transfer of those fees collected
by the Billing Agent from the customers to the District.
   (I)   The District has adopted a Rate Ordinance, imposing certain rates,
fees and charges for sewage service which shall be applied by the Billing
Agent.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   The intergovernmental agreement codified in this chapter (“agreement”) to
provide for the billing, collection and disbursement of sanitary sewer user
rate fees is entered into by and between the Springfield Metro Sanitary
District, hereinafter called the District, and the Curran-Gardner Townships
Public Water District, Illinois, hereinafter called the Billing Agent.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.03 BILLING AND COLLECTION SERVICES.
   The District will engage the Billing Agent to provide and the Billing Agent
will provide billing and collection services for the District and on behalf of
the District with regard to the customers.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.04 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   The District agrees to pay the Billing Agent administrative fees in exchange
for said billing and collection services, with the amount of such fees being
described herein. The Billing Agent agrees to transfer to the District those
fees collected on behalf of the District by the Billing Agent from customers.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.05 RATE ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Billing Agent agrees that the District has adopted a Rate Ordinance
subject to amendment by the Board of the Trustees of the District (attached to
the ordinance codified in this chapter as Exhibit A), imposing certain rates,
fees and charges for sewage service, and that the Billing Agent shall apply
those rates to the customers.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.06 PAYMENTS; MONTHLY REPORT.
   (A)   The Billing Agent shall at the end of each month make payment to the
District of the amounts that have been collected by the Billing Agent on behalf
of the District.
   (B)   The Billing Agent shall provide monthly information on the number of
customers and the amount of billable flow.
   (C)   The District will report at least monthly to the Billing Agent the
addresses of buildings newly connected to its sanitary sewers, changes to
customers’ names and changes of names on customer addresses, from which the
Billing Agent will be responsible for collecting the District’s user rate fees.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.07 PAST DUE AMOUNTS.
   The parties agree that any past due amounts on the District’s accounts
receivable, up to the date that Billing Agent takes over as the billing and
collection for the District, will be the responsibility of the District to
collect upon. Billing Agent shall notify the District of accounts past due for
sewer charges on a monthly basis.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.08 AMOUNTS TO BE COLLECTED.
   (A)   (1)   The following shall describe the amounts to be collected by the
Billing Agent on behalf of the District from the customers, subject to any
District future rate adjustments (rates effective May 1, 2012).
 
Per account:
   Collection fee*: $1: retained by Curran-Curran-Gardner Townships Public
                       Water District
   Flat fee*:       $9.36: passed on to the Sanitary District
   Rate per 1,000 ga$5.21: passed on to Sanitary District
*Described on the billing statement as a single line item: flat rate fee of
$10.36
 
      (2)   Said billing rates shall change effective each May 1, and the
District will notify the Billing Agent of the new rates 60 days, or as
reasonably early as possible, prior to the date of implementation of any rate
changes.
   (B)   The Billing Agent will apply each customer’s payments collected
against amounts owed by said customer in the following order:
      (1)   CGWD charges;
      (2)   CGWD-SD collection fee; and
      (3)   Sanitary District charges.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.09 TURN-OFF OF SERVICE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Billing Agent shall have discretion for the turn off of service
for nonpayment by a customer, except to the extent that the District has the
right to request or require such of the Billing Agent by law.
      (2)   The District may notify the Billing Agent in writing when a
disconnect is to be made for nonpayment of sewer charges, and the Billing Agent
may take such action upon receipt of such notice, in accordance with applicable
law and within a time frame consistent with the usual course of business.
   (B)   Billing Agent will retain all turn-on/turn-off fees collected from
customers whose service Billing Agent had previously turned-off.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.10 GOVERNING OF AGREEMENT; RENEWAL; TERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   This agreement shall renew from year to year hereafter, except
that the District or the Billing Agent may give at least 90 days written notice
to the other party of a desire to renegotiate its terms.
      (2)   If the parties fail to agree on renegotiated terms, this agreement
will continue under its current terms unless the agreement is otherwise
terminated by either party.
   (B)   Either party to this agreement may terminate this agreement for
convenience upon six months’ written notice to the other party.
   (C)   This agreement shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the
District and the Billing Agent and their respective governing bodies.
   (D)   This agreement may not be amended except by means of written document,
including an addendum, signed by authorized representatives of both the
District and the Billing Agent.
   (E)   This agreement shall be deemed dated and become effective on the date
the latter of the parties’ signs as set forth below the signature of their duly
authorized representatives.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 53.11 NOTICE.
   (A)   In the event that one party believes the other to be in default under
this agreement, that party acting through its Chief Administrator, shall notify
the other party in writing and allow the other party 30 days from the date of
receipt of the notice to cure the default. If the default is not then cured,
the party having sent the notice of default may terminate the agreement by
serving written notice on the other party. No waiver of any default shall be
implied by the failure of either party to give notice of default, and no
express waiver shall affect any other default except the one specified in the
waiver.
   (B)   Any notice or communication permitted or required under the agreement
shall be in writing and shall become effective on the day of mailing thereof by
first class mail, registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to:
If to the Billing Agent: Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District
                         Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District
If to the Billing Agent: Attention: Director
                         3382 Hazlett Road
                         Springfield, IL 62707
                         Dwight O’Keefe
   With a copy to:    205 South Fifth Street, Suite 700
                         Springfield, IL 62701
                         Springfield Metro Sanitary District
If to the District:      Attention: Director/Engineer
                         3000 North Eighth Street
                         Springfield, IL 62707
                         Stratton & Reichert, P.C.
   With a copy to     725 South Fourth Street
                         Springfield, IL 62703
 
(Ord. 65, passed 3-27-2012)
TITLE VI: BONDS
Chapter
      
60.   WATERWORKS REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2007
      
61.   WATERWORKS REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2009
      
62.   WATERWORKS REVENUE BONDS (2024)
CHAPTER 60: WATERWORKS REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2007
Section
Establishment
   
60.01   Definitions
   
60.02   Incorporation of preambles; authority
   
60.03   Issue bonds; single utility
   
60.04   Useful life
   
60.05   Bond details
   
60.06   Redemption prior to maturity
   
60.07   Amendment
   
60.08   Execution; authentication
   
60.09   Registration; persons treated as owners; global book entry system
   
60.10   Form of bond
   
60.11   Bonds as limited obligations
   
60.12   Waterworks Fund and accounts
   
60.13   Flow of funds
   
60.14   General covenants
   
60.15   Issuance of parity bonds
   
60.16   Sale of bonds
   
60.17   Use of proceeds; Construction Fund
   
60.18   Covenants with respect to Bond Registrar
   
60.19   Not private activity bonds
   
60.20   General arbitrage covenants
   
60.21   Registered form
   
60.22   Further tax covenants
   
60.23   Opinion of counsel exception
   
60.24   Provisions a contract
   
60.25   Defeasance
Escrow Account
   
60.40   Purpose
   
60.41   Authorization of escrow agreement
   
60.42   Publication and effective date
ESTABLISHMENT
§ 60.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the District and any successor to the duties
and functions of such governing body.
   BOND or BONDS. One or more, as applicable, of the Series 2007 Bonds and the
parity bonds.
   BOND ORDER. The written order executed by the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees of the District and setting forth the terms of the bonds as herein
provided.
   BOND REGISTER. The books of the District kept by the Bond Registrar to
evidence the registration and transfer of the bonds.
   BOND REGISTRAR. The U.S. Bank National Association or any successor thereto
as designated under this subchapter.
   CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as
amended.
   DISTRICT. The Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District, Sangamon
County, Illinois, and any successor to the duties and functions of the
District.
   ENABLING LAW. As set forth in the preambles to the ordinance codified in
this subchapter.
   FISCAL YEAR. A 12-month period beginning on November 1 of a calendar year
and ending on October 31 of the following calendar year.
   NET REVENUES. Gross revenues of the system minus costs of operation and
maintenance, before making provision for depreciation or other accounts as
required by this subchapter.
   OUTSTANDING BONDS. The bonds which are outstanding and unpaid; provided,
however, such term shall not include bonds which have matured and for which
moneys are on deposit with proper paying agents or are otherwise properly
available, sufficient to pay all principal thereof and interest thereon, or the
provision for payment of which has been made by the District by the deposit in
an irrevocable trust or escrow of funds, which may be invested in direct, full
faith and credit obligations of the United States of America, the principal of
and interest on which will be sufficient, with any funds left uninvested, to
pay at maturity or as called for redemption all principal thereof and interest
thereon.
   PARITY BONDS. Bonds or any other obligation to be issued subsequent in time
to the Series 2007 Bonds and which will share ratably and equally in the
revenues of the system with the Series 2007 Bonds.
   PROJECT. As defined in the preambles to the ordinance codified in this
subchapter.
   SERIES 2007 BOND or SERIES 2007 BONDS. One or more, as applicable, of the
$2,865,000 aggregate principal amount of Waterworks Revenue Bonds, Series 2007,
authorized to be issued by this subchapter.
   SYSTEM. Refers to all property, real, personal or otherwise owned or to be
owned by the District or under the control of the District, and used for
waterworks purposes, and any and all further extensions, improvements and
additions to the system.
   WATERWORKS FUND. The Waterworks Fund of the District created and established
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.02 INCORPORATION OF PREAMBLES; AUTHORITY.
   The Board hereby finds that all of the recitals contained in the preambles
to the ordinance codified in this section are full, true and correct and does
hereby incorporate them into this subchapter by this reference. The authority
to issue the Series 2007 Bonds is the enabling law.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.03 ISSUE BONDS; SINGLE UTILITY.
   It is necessary and in the best interests of the District to provide for the
payment of a portion of the costs of the acquisition and construction of the
project for the public health, safety and welfare, in accordance with the plans
and specifications therefor, as described in the preambles hereto, and that the
system be operated as a single utility in accordance with the provisions of the
enabling law.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.04 USEFUL LIFE.
   The Board does hereby determine the period of usefulness of the system to be
at least 50 years from the date of the Series 2007 Bonds.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.05 BOND DETAILS.
   (A)   For the purpose of paying a portion of the costs of the acquisition
and construction of the project, there shall be issued and sold the Series 2007
Bonds in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2,865,000. The Series
2007 Bonds shall each be designated “Waterworks Revenue Bond, Series 2007,”
shall be dated as of the date of issuance (the “dated date”) and shall also
bear the date of authentication thereof (unless otherwise provided in the bond
order). The Series 2007 Bonds shall be in fully registered form, shall be
(unless otherwise provided in the bond order) in denominations of integral
multiples of $5,000 (but no single Series 2007 Bond shall represent principal
maturing on more than one date), shall be lettered and numbered in such
reasonable fashion as may be selected by the Bond Registrar, shall bear
interest at the rate per annum and shall mature serially on February 1 (or such
other date as shall be set forth in the bond order) of the year or years in the
principal amounts not later than February 1, 2037, shall bear interest at such
rates per annum not to exceed 8.75%, shall be subject to redemption prior to
maturity and shall have the other terms and provisions all as determined by the
Board to be in the best interests of the District, subject to the terms of this
subchapter and all as shall be set forth in the bond order. Subsequent to the
sale of the bonds, the Chairperson of the Board shall file in the office of the
Secretary of the Board a bond order directed to the Board, setting forth the
terms of sale, the aggregate principal amount of bonds sold, the aggregate
principal amount of the bonds maturing each year, the interest rate or rates to
be borne by the bonds sold, the date or dates on which the principal and
interest will be paid and the redemption (including mandatory sinking fund
redemption provisions of the bonds, and, thereafter, the bonds so sold shall be
duly prepared and executed in the form and manner set forth herein and
delivered to the purchaser thereof in accordance with the terms of sale. The
District deems it proper to delegate to the Chairperson of the Board the power
to approve any and all changes to any documents as he or she shall, on behalf
of the District, determine, subject to the limitations of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each Series 2007 Bond shall bear interest from the later of its dated
date as herein provided or from the most recent interest payment date to which
interest has been paid or duly provided for, until the principal amount of such
Series 2007 Bond is paid or duly provided for, such interest (computed upon the
basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) being payable on February 1,
2008 (unless otherwise provided in the bond order), and semiannually thereafter
on February 1 and August 1 of each year. Interest on each Series 2007 Bond
shall be paid by check or draft of the Bond Registrar, payable upon
presentation in lawful money of the United States of America, to the person in
whose name such Series 2007 Bond is registered at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month next preceding the applicable interest
payment date. The principal of the Series 2007 Bonds shall be payable solely
upon presentation in lawful money of the United States of America at the
principal office of the Bond Registrar. The District covenants that it will
deposit the principal and interest payments, along with any redemption premium,
with the Bond Registrar in immediately available funds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Bond Registrar five days prior to each interest
payment date.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.06 REDEMPTION PRIOR TO MATURITY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in the bond order, the Series 2007 Bonds
maturing on or after February 1, 2018, are subject to redemption and payment
prior to their maturity, at the option of the District, in whole or in part,
from any available funds, on any interest payment date on or after February 1,
2017, and if in part, in integral multiples of $5,000; provided, that any
Series 2007 Bond not called for redemption must be in an authorized
denomination, in such order of maturity as selected by the District, and within
any maturity as selected by lot by the Bond Registrar as hereinafter provided,
at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof being redeemed,
plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption.
   (B)   Unless waived by the Bond Registrar, the District shall notify the
Bond Registrar of the optional redemption of bonds (by maturity and amount per
maturity, if less than all bonds of a single maturity are to be redeemed) not
less than 45 days prior to the date fixed for redemption.
   (C)   In the event of a partial redemption of Series 2007 Bonds of a single
maturity, the particular Series 2007 Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed
shall be selected by the Bond Registrar by lot not more than 60 days prior to
the date fixed for redemption; provided, that any Series 2007 Bond not called
for redemption must be in an authorized denomination. With respect to partial
redemptions, the Bond Registrar shall select the Series 2007 Bonds or portions
thereof to be redeemed by such method of lottery as the Bond Registrar shall
deem fair and appropriate.
   (D)   The Bond Registrar shall promptly notify the District in writing of
the Series 2007 Bonds or portions of Series 2007 Bonds selected for redemption
prior to maturity, and, in the case of any Series 2007 Bond selected for
partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
   (E)   Unless waived by the registered owner of any Series 2007 Bond to be
redeemed, official notice of any such redemption shall be given by the Bond
Registrar on behalf of the District by mailing the redemption notice by first
class mail, postage prepaid, not less than 45 days and not more than 60 days
prior to the date fixed for redemption to each registered owner of the Series
2007 Bond or Series 2007 Bonds to be redeemed at the address shown on the Bond
Register or at such other address as is furnished in writing by such registered
owners to the Bond Registrar.
   (F)   All official notices of redemption shall include at least the
following information:
      (1)   The date fixed for redemption;
      (2)   The redemption price;
      (3)   If less than all of the Series 2007 Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of
any Series 2007 Bonds, the respective principal amounts) of the Series 2007
Bonds to be redeemed;
      (4)   A statement that on the date fixed for redemption the redemption
price will become due and payable upon each such Series 2007 Bond or portion
thereof called for redemption and that interest thereon shall cease to accrue
from and after said date; and
      (5)   The place where such Series 2007 Bonds are to be surrendered for
payment of the redemption price, which place of payment shall be the principal
corporate trust office of the Bond Registrar.
   (G)   Prior to any date fixed for redemption, the District shall deposit
with the Bond Registrar an amount of money sufficient to pay the redemption
price of all the Series 2007 Bonds or the portions of Series 2007 Bonds which
are to be redeemed on that date. Unless moneys sufficient to pay the principal
of and interest on the Series 2007 Bonds to be redeemed shall have been
received by the Bond Registrar prior to the giving of such notice of
redemption, such notice may, at the option of the District, state that said
redemption shall be conditional upon the receipt of such moneys by the Bond
Registrar on or prior to the date fixed for redemption. If such moneys are not
received, such notice shall be of no force and effect, the District shall not
redeem such Series 2007 Bonds and the Bond Registrar shall give notice in the
same manner in which the notice of redemption was given that such moneys were
not so received and that such bonds will not be redeemed.
   (H)   Official notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the
Series 2007 Bonds or portions of the Series 2007 Bonds so to be redeemed shall,
on the date fixed for redemption, become due and payable at the redemption
price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the District
shall default in the payment of the redemption price), such Series 2007 Bonds
or portions of such Series 2007 Bonds shall cease to bear interest. Neither the
failure to mail such redemption notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed,
to any particular registered owner, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice
with respect to other Series 2007 Bonds. Notice having been properly given,
failure of a registered owner of a Series 2007 Bond to receive such notice
shall not be deemed to invalidate, limit or delay the effect of the notice or
redemption action described in the notice. Such notice may be waived in writing
by the registered owner entitled to receive such notice, either before or after
the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of
notice by registered owners shall be filed with the Bond Registrar, but such
filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken
in reliance upon such waiver.
   (I)   Upon surrender of such Series 2007 Bonds for redemption in accordance
with said notice, such Series 2007 Bonds shall be paid by the Bond Registrar at
the redemption price. The procedure for the payment of interest due on or prior
to the date fixed for redemption shall be as herein provided for the payment of
interest otherwise due. Upon surrender for any partial redemption of any Series
2007 Bond, there shall be prepared for the registered owner a new Series 2007
Bond or Series 2007 Bonds of like tenor, of authorized denominations, of the
same series, maturity and rate of interest, in the principal amount of the
unpaid principal of such Series 2007 Bond. If any Series 2007 Bond or portion
of any Series 2007 Bond called for redemption shall not be so paid upon
surrender thereof for redemption, the principal shall, until paid or duly
provided for, bear interest from the date fixed for redemption at the rate
borne by the Series 2007 Bond or portion of Series 2007 Bond so called for
redemption. All Series 2007 Bonds which have been redeemed shall be cancelled
and destroyed by the Bond Registrar and shall not be reissued.
   (J)   In addition to the foregoing notice of redemption, if the outstanding
Series 2007 Bonds are owned by more than one person or one entity, further
notice shall be given by the Bond Registrar on behalf of the District as set
out below, but no defect in said further notice nor any failure to give all or
any portion of such further notice shall in any manner invalidate, limit or
delay the redemption action if notice thereof is given as above prescribed.
   (K)   Each further notice of redemption given hereunder shall contain the
information required above for an official notice of redemption, and
additionally shall contain the CUSIP numbers of all Series 2007 Bonds being
redeemed; the date of issuance of such Series 2007 Bonds as originally issued;
the rate of interest borne by each Series 2007 Bond being redeemed; the
maturity date of each Series 2007 Bond being redeemed; and any other
descriptive information needed to identify accurately the Series 2007 Bonds or
portions thereof being redeemed.
   (L)   Each further notice of redemption shall be sent at least 30 days
before the date fixed for redemption by legible facsimile transmission, first
class mail (postage prepaid) or overnight delivery service to the Depository
Trust Company of New York, New York, and to at least two national information
services that disseminate notices of redemption of obligations such as the
bonds.
   (M)   Upon the payment of the redemption price of Series 2007 Bonds being
redeemed, each check or other transfer of funds issued for such purpose shall
bear the CUSIP number identifying, by issue and maturity, the Series 2007 Bonds
being redeemed with the proceeds of such check or other transfer.
   (N)   Parity bonds hereinafter issued pursuant to the terms hereof may be
redeemable on such dates and upon such terms as may be determined at the time
of authorization thereof.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.07 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The rights and obligations of the District and of the registered
owners of the outstanding bonds may from time to time be modified or amended by
a supplemental ordinance adopted by the Board upon the written consent of the
registered owners of not less than two-thirds of the aggregate principal amount
of all outstanding bonds (excluding any outstanding bonds owned by or under the
control of the District unless all outstanding bonds are so owned); provided,
however, that no such modification or amendment shall extend or change the
maturity of or date fixed for redemption prior to maturity of, or reduce the
interest rate on, or permit the creation of a preference or priority of, any
outstanding bond or outstanding bonds over any other outstanding bond or
outstanding bonds, or otherwise alter or impair the obligation of the District
to pay the principal of, interest on and redemption premium (if any) on any of
the outstanding bonds at the time, place, rate and in the currency provided
therein, or alter or impair the obligations of the District with respect to
registration, transfer, exchange or notice of redemption of bonds, without the
express consent of the registered owners of all the outstanding bonds affected;
nor shall any such modification or amendment reduce the percentage of the
aggregate principal amount of outstanding bonds hereinabove required for
written consent by the registered owners thereof to any modification or
amendment without the consent of the owners of all of the outstanding bonds.
   (B)   In the case of the bonds, ownership of bonds for purposes of consent
by the registered owners thereof shall be conclusively proved by the Bond
Register. In obtaining or receiving the consents of the registered owners of
the bonds, the District may establish reasonable rules of procedure, including,
without limitation, rules relating to a record date to fix the registered
owners thereof who are entitled to vote, solicitation of proxies and a meeting
of the registered owners thereof for the taking of actions. The registered
owners of the bonds may vote their bond interest in fractional shares. In the
event that the bonds are registered in the name or names of nominees or
depositories, the consent of such owners by proxy in accordance with the
applicable customs of the securities industry or rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board or other association
or agency having jurisdiction shall be sufficient.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.08 EXECUTION; AUTHENTICATION.
   (A)   The Series 2007 Bonds shall be executed on behalf of the District with
the manual or duly authorized facsimile signature of the Chairperson of the
District and attested with the manual or duly authorized facsimile signature of
the Secretary of the District. In case any officer whose signature shall appear
on any Series 2007 Bond shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of
such Series 2007 Bond, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and
sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office
until delivery.
   (B)   (1)   All Series 2007 Bonds shall have thereon a certificate of
authentication substantially in the form hereinafter set forth duly executed by
the Bond Registrar as authenticating agent of the District and showing the date
of authentication. No Series 2007 Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any
purpose or be entitled to any security or benefit under this subchapter unless
and until such certificate of authentication shall have been duly executed by
the Bond Registrar by manual signature, and such certificate of authentication
upon any such Series 2007 Bond shall be conclusive evidence that such Series
2007 Bond has been authenticated and delivered under this subchapter.
      (2)   The certificate of authentication on any Series 2007 Bond shall be
deemed to have been executed by it if signed by an authorized officer of the
Bond Registrar, but it shall not be necessary that the same officer sign the
certificate of authentication on all of the Series 2007 Bonds issued under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.09 REGISTRATION; PERSONS TREATED AS OWNERS; GLOBAL BOOK ENTRY SYSTEM.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The District shall cause books (the Bond Register) for the
registration and for the transfer of the bonds as provided in this subchapter
to be kept at the principal office of the Bond Registrar maintained for the
purpose, which is hereby constituted and appointed the registrar of the
District for the bonds. The District is authorized to prepare, and the Bond
Registrar or such other agent as the District may designate shall keep custody
of, multiple bond blanks executed by the District for use in the transfer and
exchange of bonds.
      (2)   Any bond may be transferred or exchanged, but only in the manner,
subject to the limitations, and upon payment of the charges as set forth in
this subchapter. Upon surrender for transfer or exchange of any bond at the
principal office of the Bond Registrar maintained for the purpose, duly
endorsed by or accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer
or exchange in form satisfactory to the Bond Registrar and duly executed by the
registered owner thereof or an attorney for such owner duly authorized in
writing, the District shall execute and the Bond Registrar shall authenticate,
date and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees or, in the case
of an exchange, the registered owner, a new fully registered bond or bonds of
like tenor, of the same series, maturity, interest rate and of authorized
denominations, for a like aggregate principal amount.
      (3)   The Bond Registrar shall not be required to transfer or exchange
any bond during the period from the close of business on the fifteenth day of
the calendar month preceding an interest payment date on the bonds to the
opening of business on such interest payment date or during the period of 15
days preceding the giving of notice of redemption of bonds or to transfer or
exchange any bond all or a portion of which has been called for redemption
prior to maturity.
      (4)   The execution by the District of any fully registered bond shall
constitute full and due authorization of such bond, and the Bond Registrar
shall thereby be authorized to authenticate, date and deliver such bond;
provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of bonds of each
maturity authenticated by the Bond Registrar shall not at any one time exceed
the authorized principal amount of bonds for such maturity less the amount of
such bonds which have been paid.
      (5)   The person in whose name any bond shall be registered shall be
deemed and regarded as the absolute owner thereof for all purposes, and payment
of the principal of or interest on any bond shall be made only to or upon the
order of the registered owner thereof or the legal representative of such
owner. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge
the liability upon such bond to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
      (6)   No service charge shall be made for any transfer or exchange of the
bonds, but the District or the Bond Registrar may require payment of a sum
sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in
connection with any transfer or exchange of the bonds, except in the case of
the issuance of a bond or bonds for the unredeemed portion of a bond
surrendered for redemption prior to maturity.
   (B)   Global book-entry system. The District and/or the Bond Registrar may
enter into an agreement with a securities depository registered under § 17A of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 78a et seq., as amended
(the “Securities Depository”), including, without limitation, the Depository
Trust Company of New York, New York, to establish procedures with respect to
bonds owned by such securities depository. Such agreement may impose additional
requirements on the Bond Registrar with respect to the bonds.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.10 FORM OF BOND.
   The Series 2007 Bonds shall be in substantially the form set forth in the
ordinance codified in this subchapter; provided, however, that if the text of
the Series 2007 Bonds is to be printed in its entirety on the front side of the
Series 2007 Bonds, then the second paragraph of the form of Series 2007 Bond on
the front side, and the legend “See Reverse Side for Additional Provisions”
shall be omitted and the text of paragraphs set forth in the form of Series
2007 Bond for the reverse side shall be inserted immediately after the first
paragraph.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.11 BONDS AS LIMITED OBLIGATIONS.
   The bonds shall be payable only from the net revenues derived from the
operation of the system and shall not constitute an indebtedness of the
District payable from taxes, nor shall the bonds constitute an indebtedness or
obligation of the District within the meaning of any constitutional or
statutory provision or limitation.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.12 WATERWORKS FUND AND ACCOUNTS.
   Upon the issuance of any of the Series 2007 Bonds, the system shall be
operated on a fiscal year basis. All of the gross revenues from any source
whatsoever derived directly or indirectly from the use and operation of the
system shall be set aside as collected and be deposited into the hereinafter
referred to Revenue Account of a separate fund in an account in a bank
designated by the Board, which fund is hereby established and designated as the
Waterworks Fund of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District (the
“Waterworks Fund”), which Waterworks Fund shall constitute a trust fund for the
sole purpose of carrying out the covenants, terms and conditions of this
subchapter, and shall be used only in paying the reasonable cost of the
operation and maintenance of the system, paying the principal of and interest
on all revenue bonds of the District which by their terms are payable from the
revenues derived from the system, providing an adequate depreciation fund and
providing for the establishment of and expenditure from the respective accounts
hereinafter described.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.13 FLOW OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Separate accounts are hereby established in the Waterworks Fund and
designated as the Revenue Account, the Operation and Maintenance Account, the
Bond and Interest Account, the Bond Reserve Account, the Depreciation,
Improvement and Extension Account and the Surplus Revenue Account. All gross
revenues of the system shall be deposited into the Revenue Account as and when
received by the District.
   (B)   There shall be set aside on the first business day of each month
without any further official action or direction all moneys held in the Revenue
Account of the Waterworks Fund of the District, in accordance with the
following priority.
      (1)   Operation and maintenance account.
         (a)   There shall be credited to the Operation and Maintenance Account
on the first business day of each month an amount sufficient, when added to the
amount then on deposit in the Operation and Maintenance Account, to pay the
reasonable expense of the operation and maintenance of the system for the next
succeeding calendar month, including all of such expenses usual in such a
system, and including one-twelfth of all such expenses computed on an annual
basis.
         (b)   Money in the Operation and Maintenance Account shall be used to
pay all costs reasonably incurred in connection with the continued operation,
use and maintenance of the system, other than capital improvements (including
the purchase of new meters) necessary to keep the system in efficient and
economical operating condition, including the payment of premiums for insurance
hereinafter required to be carried, and generally for all expenses (except
depreciation) which under good accounting practice are properly chargeable to,
and are reasonable and necessary to, the efficient maintenance and operation of
the system. Money in the Operation and Maintenance Account shall not be used to
pay the costs of extraordinary or unusual repairs and maintenance or capital
expenditures, any transfer in lieu of corporate taxes or general supervision or
administrative charges by the District.
      (2)   Bond and interest account.
         (a)   Beginning on the first business day of the calendar month
following delivery of the Series 2007 Bonds, there next shall be credited to
the Bond and Interest Account an amount which, taking into account an equal
amount to be deposited on the first business day of each succeeding calendar
month, to and including January, 2008, will not be less than the amount of
interest coming due on the bonds on February 1, 2008. On the first business day
of each calendar month, commencing February, 2008, there next shall be credited
to the Bond and Interest Account an amount at least equal to one-sixth of the
interest next becoming due on all bonds, unless and until there is on hand in
said account the full amount of the interest payable on all bonds on the
succeeding interest payment date. Beginning on the first business day of the
calendar month following delivery of the Series 2007 Bonds, there shall next be
credited to the Bond and Interest Account an amount which, taking into account
an equal amount to be deposited on the first business day of each succeeding
calendar month, to and including January 1, 2008, will not be less than the
amount of principal coming due on the bonds on February 1, 2008. On the first
business day of each month, commencing February, 2008, there next shall be
credited to the Bond and Interest Account an amount at least equal to one-
twelfth of the principal next becoming due on all of the bonds, unless and
until there is on hand in said account the full amount of the principal
becoming due on the bonds on the succeeding principal maturity date.
         (b)   Credits to the Bond and Interest Account may be suspended in any
fiscal year at such time as there shall be sufficient money (including amounts
derived from investment earnings on amounts therein) in said account to pay
principal and interest due on the bonds on the next payment date for such
principal or interest, but such credits shall again be resumed at the beginning
of the new fiscal year. All moneys in the Bond and Interest Account shall be
used only for the purpose of paying the interest on and principal of the bonds.
Any and all sums received from the purchaser of the Series 2007 Bonds as
accrued interest thereon to date of delivery thereof shall be credited to the
Bond and Interest Account pursuant to §
60.17 hereof, and applied to pay the interest coming due on the Series 2007
Bonds on February 1, 2008.
         (c)   Funds to pay all of said principal and interest, together with
the fees and expenses (if any) of the appropriate paying agent for the bonds,
shall be remitted to such paying agent at least 15 days prior to the date of
payment of said principal or interest; provided, however, that all paying
agency fees shall be paid from the Operation and Maintenance Account.
      (3)   Bond reserve account.
         (a)   Commencing on February 1, 2009, there shall be credited to the
Bond Reserve Account on the first business day of each month, the sum of
$14,131.33, or such greater amount as may be designated from time to time by
the Board, until the aggregate amount on deposit in the Bond Resume Account
equals the maximum principal and interest requirements for the Series 2007
Bonds in any succeeding fiscal year. Thereafter, any amount necessary to bring
the balance of moneys on deposit in the Bond Reserve Account to an amount equal
to the maximum principal and interest requirements for the outstanding bonds in
any succeeding fiscal year on the first day of the calendar month following
delivery of the Series 2007 Bonds, shall be credited to the Bond Reserve
Account on the first day of each calendar month, until all of the outstanding
bonds have been paid or provision shall have been made for their payment;
provided, however, that whenever the balance in the Bond Reserve Account is
equal to the maximum principal and interest requirements on all of said
outstanding bonds for any succeeding fiscal year, any surplus over and above
said maximum amount, shall be transferred to the Depreciation, Improvement and
Extension Account or, at the discretion of the Board, may be used for calling
and redeeming outstanding bonds prior to their maturity, or for purchasing on
the open market at not more than 100% of the principal amount thereof, and
accrued interest any of the outstanding bonds which are payable from the
revenues of the system. No outstanding bonds shall be purchased within the 60
days immediately prior to the next succeeding redemption date of any
outstanding bonds, and all such outstanding bonds purchased or redeemed shall
be cancelled.
         (b)   Except as provided above, moneys in the Bond Reserve Account
shall be retained and used only for the payment of principal of or interest on
all outstanding bonds at any time when there are insufficient funds available
in the Bond and Interest Account to pay such principal of or interest on the
outstanding bonds as the same become due. In the event that moneys are
withdrawn from the Bond Reserve Account to pay such principal or interest, the
District shall replenish the Bond Reserve Account as above provided. Until the
Bond Reserve Account is so replenished, the District shall also continue to
make deposits to the Bond Reserve Account from the Revenue Account as herein
provided.
      (4)   Depreciation, improvement and extension account.
         (a)   Commencing on February 1, 2009, there shall next be credited to
the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account the sum of $             ,
or such greater amount as may be designated from time to time by the District,
until the aggregate amount on deposit in the Depreciation, Improvement and
Extension Account equals $             (or such greater amount as may be
designated from time to time by the District). Thereafter, in the event that
the balance in the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account is less than
$             (or such greater amount as shall be designated from time to time
by the Board), there shall next be credited to the Depreciation, Improvement
and Extension Account on the first business day of each month the sum of $
            , or such greater amount as may be designated from time to time by
the Board, until all of the outstanding bonds have been paid or provision shall
have been made for their payment.
         (b)   The moneys in the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension
Account shall be used first to provide an adequate allowance for depreciation
as shall be determined from time to time by the Board, and may be used from
time to time to pay for any extraordinary maintenance, repairs and necessary
replacements or, if not so needed, for improvement or extension of the system,
including new meters. Said funds shall be used at any time to pay the principal
of or interest upon any outstanding bonds payable from the revenues of the
system whenever there are no other funds available to pay the same; provided,
however, that from and after such time as the Depreciation, Improvement and
Extension Account aggregates the sum of $             (or such greater amount
as shall be designated from time to time by the Board), any sums in excess
thereof may be transferred to the Bond Reserve Account to remedy any
deficiencies therein or to the Surplus Revenue Account, at the discretion of
the Board.
         (c)   All proceeds received from the disposition of any property of
the system shall be credited to the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension
Account and may be used to pay the cost of improvements or extensions to the
system remaining, or may be used for calling and redeeming outstanding bonds
prior to their maturity, or for purchasing outstanding bonds on the open market
at not more than 100% of the principal amount thereof, and accrued interest on
any of the outstanding bonds.
      (5)   Surplus revenue account. All revenues remaining in the Revenue
Account of the Waterworks Fund, after all credits have been made to the
respective accounts herein provided for, shall at the end of each month be
credited to the Surplus Revenue Account, and the amount so credited shall be
held and used for the following purposes (in the order listed):
         (a)   For making up any deficiency necessary to credit the accounts
described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above with the required amounts
therefor for each month as hereinabove provided;
         (b)   For paying principal of or interest on any junior lien bonds
(subordinate issue); or
         (c)   For transfer to any account of the Waterworks Fund, or, at the
discretion of the Board, for any other lawful corporate purpose, including, but
not limited to, any authorized payments in lieu of taxes, general supervision
and administrative charges of the District.
      (6)   Investment of funds.
         (a)   Except as provided below, moneys remaining in any of the
accounts hereinabove created and designated may be invested from time to time,
in direct obligations of the United States of America or in certificates of
deposit fully secured by direct or fully guaranteed obligations of the United
States of America, municipal bonds rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, a Division of The McGraw-Hill Companies,
Inc., in one of the four highest rating categories of such rating agency, and,
except for moneys in the Bond and Interest Account and the Bond Reserve
Account, in any other investments permitted by law and maturing not later than
the earliest date on which it is estimated the moneys in said accounts will be
needed, but in no event later than five years from the date of such investment.
         (b)   Such securities shall be sold from time to time without further
authority of the Board as moneys may be needed for the purpose for which said
accounts have been created.
         (c)   All accrued interest on any moneys so invested shall first be
credited to the Waterworks Fund and then credited to the account for which the
investment was made.
         (d)   All uninvested money on hand shall be deposited in banks
selected as depositories by the Board from time to time so as to be available
when needed. All money in the Waterworks Fund may be deposited in a single bank
account, but each account in the Waterworks Fund will be accounted for
separately.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.14 GENERAL COVENANTS.
   The District covenants and agrees with the owners of the bonds to the
following, so long as the bonds or any of them remain outstanding and unpaid,
either as to principal or interest.
   (A)   The District will maintain the system, and all improvements,
extensions and additions thereto, in good repair and working order, will
operate the same efficiently and faithfully and will punctually perform all
duties with respect thereto required by its ordinances (including this
subchapter), the Constitution and the laws of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   (1)   The District will establish and maintain at all times reasonable
fees, charges and rates for all users of the service of the system, and provide
for the collection thereof and for the segregation and application of the
revenues of the system in the manner provided by this subchapter, and
sufficient at all times to pay the reasonable costs of operation and
maintenance, to pay the interest on and principal of all revenue bonds of the
District which by their terms are payable from the revenues of the system, and
to provide for the continuance and maintenance of the respective accounts as
provided in §
60.13 hereof, and from time to time to make all needful and proper repairs,
replacements, additions and betterments thereto, so that the system may at all
times be operated properly and advantageously; and, when any equipment or
facility shall have been worn out, destroyed or otherwise is insufficient for
proper use, it shall be promptly replaced or repaired so that the value and
efficiency of the system shall be at all times fully maintained.
      (2)   The District further agrees that such fees, charges and rates will
be established and maintained in such manner as is sufficient at all times to
provide net revenues in each fiscal year in the amount of not less than 125% of
the current debt service requirement for all outstanding bonds for such fiscal
year.
      (3)   Charges for service rendered to the District shall be made against
the District, and payment for the same from available funds of the District
shall be made monthly into the Waterworks Fund established by this subchapter,
as revenues derived from the operation of the system, in the same manner as
other revenues are required to be deposited; provided, however, that the
District need not charge itself for water service so long as the revenues of
the system are otherwise adequate to meet all the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (4)   No free service of the system shall be furnished to any person,
firm, organization or corporation, public or private (other than the use of
water from fire hydrants by fire departments for their emergency response
efforts), and to the extent permitted by law it is expressly herein covenanted
and agreed that the District will not grant a franchise for the operation of
any other or competing waterworks system or sewerage system (other than any
governmental sanitary sewerage system providing services not currently provided
by the District) or combination thereof within the District, and that the bonds
herein authorized to be executed shall constitute legally enforceable liens on
the revenues of the system of said District, including all further extensions,
additions and improvements thereto, whether acquired through purchase, contract
or otherwise.
   (C)   The District will establish such rules and regulations for the control
and operation of the system necessary for the efficient and economical
operation thereof, and rates and charges shall be fixed and revised from time
to time as may be necessary to produce funds sufficient for all purposes herein
provided until all of the bonds have been paid in full, both as to principal
and interest (or provision therefor has been made).
   (D)   (1)   The District will make and keep proper books and accounts
(separate and apart from all other records and accounts of the District), in
which complete entries shall be made of all transactions relating to the
system, and hereby covenants that within 90 days following the close of each
fiscal year it will cause the books and accounts of the system to be audited
annually by independent certified public accountants showing the receipts and
disbursements on account of the system, and that said audit will be available
for inspection by the owners of any of the bonds. Each such audit, in addition
to whatever matters may be thought proper by the accountants to be included
therein, shall, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, include the
following:
         (a)   A statement in detail of the income and expenditures of the
system for such fiscal year, and including credits to the various accounts
provided for in this subchapter;
         (b)   A balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal year;
         (c)   The accountant’s comment regarding the manner in which the
District has carried out the accounting requirements of this subchapter, and
the accountant’s recommendations for any changes or improvements in the
operation of the system;
         (d)   A list of all insurance policies in force at the end of the
fiscal year, setting out as to each policy the amount of the policy, the risks
covered, the name of the insurer and the expiration date of the policy; and
         (e)   The number of metered water customers and the number of
unmetered water customers at the end of the fiscal year and the quantity of
water pumped.
      (2)   All expenses incurred in the making of the audit required by this
section shall be regarded and paid as an operation and maintenance expense, and
it is further covenanted and agreed that a copy of each such audit shall be
furnished upon completion to the owner of any bond upon request. In addition,
statements of revenues and expenditures of the system shall be furnished to the
Board at least quarterly during each fiscal year, and a copy of such statement
shall be furnished to the original purchaser of the Series 2007 Bonds herein
authorized and shall also be furnished to the owner of any bond upon request.
   (E)   (1)   The District will not sell, lease, loan, mortgage or in any
manner dispose of or encumber the system (subject to the reserved right of the
District to issue parity bonds as provided in §
60.15), until all of the bonds shall be paid in full, both principal and
interest, or unless and until provision shall have been made for the payment
thereof; provided, however, that this covenant shall not prevent the District
from otherwise disposing of any property which, in the judgment of the Board,
is no longer useful or profitable in the operation of the system, nor essential
to the continued operation of the system, and this covenant shall not prevent
the District from disposing of any or all of its sewerage facilities should
such function be furnished by another municipal corporation in the area of the
District; provided, that the earnings of the remaining facilities of the
waterworks system of the District will continue to be sufficient to meet all
requirements of this subchapter as based on the prior fiscal year’s audit as
adjusted by an independent consulting engineer for the change in operations and
any rate revisions placed into effect.
      (2)   The proceeds from the sale of any property shall be credited to the
Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account hereinabove established in §
60.13.
   (F)   (1)   The District will provide insurance coverage (which may be
provided through self-insurance or one or more commercial insurance policies,
as permitted by law) on the system of the kinds and in the amounts which are
usually carried by private parties operating similar properties, including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, fire, windstorm, public
liability and all additional insurance covering such risks as shall be
recommended by a competent consulting engineer employed for the purpose of
making such recommendation, and all moneys received for loss under any such
insurance shall be deposited in the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension
Account, and used in making good the loss or damage in respect of which they
were paid, either by repairing the property damaged or replacing the property
destroyed, and provision for making good such loss or damage shall be made
within 90 days from date of loss.
      (2)   The payment of premiums for all insurance policies required under
the provisions of this covenant shall be considered an operation and
maintenance expense.
      (3)   The proceeds derived from any and all policies for public
liability, if any, shall be credited to the Operation and Maintenance Account
and used as necessary in paying the claims on account of which they were
received.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.15 ISSUANCE OF PARITY BONDS.
   It is hereby covenanted and agreed that, so long as there are bonds, the
District will not issue any other bonds or obligations of any kind or nature
having a pledge on the revenues of the system which are prior to the lien on
such revenues of the bonds, or, except as described in divisions (A) and (B)
below, on a parity with such lien.
   (A)   The District reserves the right to issue at one time, or from time to
time, as shall be found necessary and for the best interest of the District by
the Board, parity bonds for the purpose of constructing or acquiring
improvements, replacements and extensions of the system, or for the purpose of
refunding any of the bonds of the District, or for any combination of such
purposes, but only provided the District shall have complied with the following
requirements:
      (1)   The amounts required to have been credited to the respective
accounts described in §
60.13(B)(1) through (B)(4), up to the date of authorization of said parity
bonds shall have been credited to said respective accounts; and
      (2)   (a)   The net revenues of the system for the next preceding fiscal
year (for which audited financial statements are available), or the adjusted
net revenues of the system for said next preceding fiscal year, if such
revenues are adjusted as herein provided, have been equal to not less than 125%
of the maximum combined principal and interest requirements for any succeeding
fiscal year during the life of the then outstanding bonds, of all outstanding
bonds payable from the revenues to be derived from the operation of the system
and the parity bonds then proposed to be issued. Net revenues shall be
evidenced by an audit of an independent certified public accountant.
         (b)   In the event there shall have been a change in the rates of the
system from the rates in effect for the next preceding fiscal year (for which
audited financial statements are available), which change is in effect at the
time of the issuance of any such parity bonds, then the net revenues as
provided in this division (A)(2) shall be adjusted to reflect the net revenues
of the system for said next preceding fiscal year as they would have been had
said then existing rates been in effect during all of said fiscal year.
         (c)   Any such adjusted net revenues shall be evidenced by a
certificate of an independent certified public accountant or an independent
consulting engineer employed for that purpose, which certificate shall be
approved by the Board prior to the issuance of the parity bonds and filed with
the Secretary upon its approval.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the District reserves the
further right to issue parity bonds to refund any of the outstanding bonds,
provided such parity bonds are issued to refund bonds due within three months
of the date of refunding and for the payment of which no other funds are or
will be available at the maturity thereof.
   (C)   Any additional bonds issued as parity bonds shall be on an equal basis
in all respects with the outstanding bonds, shall share ratably and equally in
the revenues of the system and shall mature as to principal on February 1, and
as to interest on February 1 and August 1.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.16 SALE OF BONDS.
   The Series 2007 Bonds hereby authorized shall be executed as in this
subchapter provided as soon after the passage hereof as may be, and thereupon
be deposited with the Treasurer of the District, and be by said Treasurer
delivered to the State Finance Authority, the purchaser thereof (the
“purchaser”), upon receipt of the purchase price therefor, the same being set
forth in the bond order, but not less than 95% of the principal amount thereof,
plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of delivery. The contract for the
sale of the Series 2007 Bonds submitted to this meeting, to-wit the Local
Government Securities Purchase Agreement (the “purchase contract”), is in all
respects authorized, approved and confirmed, it being hereby found and
determined that the Series 2007 Bonds have been sold at such price and bear
interest at such rates that neither the true interest cost (yield) nor the net
interest rate received upon such sale exceed the maximum rate otherwise
authorized by state law and that the purchase contract is in the best interests
of the District and that no person holding an office of the District either by
election or appointment, is in any manner interested, either directly or
indirectly, in his or her own name or in the name of any other person,
association, trust or corporation, in the purchase contract. The Chairperson is
hereby authorized and directed to execute the purchase contract and to deliver
the purchase contract to the purchaser.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.17 USE OF PROCEEDS; CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   The proceeds of the sale of the bonds, exclusive of accrued interest,
if any, which is to be applied as provided in §
60.13, shall be placed in a bank or banks designated as depositories by the
Board (or invested from time to time in direct or fully guaranteed obligations
of the United States of America having a maturity date not later than that on
which funds will be needed) in a separate account to be designated the
Waterworks Construction Fund Account of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public
Water District (the “Construction Fund”). The accrued interest, if any, shall
be credited to the Bond and Interest Account herein established.
   (B)   The funds in the Construction Fund shall be held for the benefit of
the District for the purposes herein provided, and for the benefit of the
owners of the bonds as their interest may appear, and said funds shall be
withdrawn from the Construction Fund from time to time by the Treasurer of the
District only upon submission of the following:
      (1)   A duplicate copy of the order signed by the Chairperson and
Secretary of the District, or such other officers that may from time to time be
by law authorized to sign and countersign orders on the Treasury of the
District, stating specifically the purpose for which the order is issued and
indicating that the payment for which the order is issued has been approved by
the Board; and
      (2)   Each withdrawal of funds by the District Treasurer for payment to a
contractor or contractors for work done in connection with the construction of
the project shall also be accompanied by a certificate executed by the
consulting engineer with respect to the project in charge of the construction
of such improvements, stating the nature of the work completed and the amount
due and payable.
   (C)   Within 60 days after completion of the project in accordance with
plans and specifications therefor, as herein referred to, and as heretofore
approved by the Board, and after all costs have been paid in connection with
the construction thereof, the project engineers shall certify to the Board the
fact that the work has been completed according to said plans and
specifications, and, upon acceptance of the completion of the work by the
District based upon the engineer’s certificate, and after all costs have been
paid, the Chairperson, the Secretary and the consulting engineer with respect
to the project shall execute a certificate and file it with the depository
certifying that the work has been completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications, that all costs have been paid and if at that time any funds
remain in said Construction Fund, the same shall be transmitted by said
depository to the Treasurer of the District and said Treasurer shall credit
said funds to the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account.
   (D)   The cost of engineering, legal, financing and other services, the cost
of surveys, designs, soundings, borings, rights-of-way and all other necessary
and incidental expenses, shall be deemed items of cost of acquisition and
construction of the project.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.18 COVENANTS WITH RESPECT TO BOND REGISTRAR.
   (A)   If requested by the Bond Registrar, the Chairperson and the Treasurer
of the District are authorized to execute the Bond Registrar’s standard form of
agreement between the District and the Bond Registrar (or with such
modifications thereto as the District and the Bond Registrar may agree to) with
respect to the obligations and duties of the Bond Registrar under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Subject to modification by the express terms of any such agreement,
such duties shall include the following:
      (1)   To act as Bond Registrar, authenticating agent, paying agent and
transfer agent as provided herein;
      (2)   To maintain a list of the owners of the bonds as set forth herein
and to furnish such list to the District upon request, but otherwise to keep
such list confidential to the extent permitted by law;
      (3)   To give notice of redemption of bonds as provided herein;
      (4)   To cancel and/or destroy bonds which have been paid at maturity or
upon earlier redemption or submitted for exchange or transfer;
      (5)   To furnish the District at least annually a certificate with
respect to bonds cancelled and/or destroyed; and
      (6)   To furnish the District at least annually an audit confirmation of
bonds paid, bonds outstanding and payments made with respect to interest on the
bonds.
   (C)   The Secretary of the District is hereby directed to file a certified
copy of this subchapter with the Bond Registrar.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.19 NOT PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS.
   (A)   None of the Series 2007 Bonds is a private activity bond, as defined
in I.R.C. § 141(a).
   (B)   In support of such conclusion, the District certifies, represents and
covenants as follows.
      (1)   None of the proceeds of the Series 2007 Bonds are to be used,
directly or indirectly, in any trade or business carried on by any person,
other than a state or local governmental unit.
      (2)   No direct or indirect payments are to be made on any Series 2007
Bond with respect to any private business use by any person, other than a state
or local governmental unit.
      (3)   None of the proceeds of the Series 2007 Bonds are to be used,
directly or indirectly, to make or finance loans to persons, other than a state
or local governmental unit.
      (4)   No user of the system, other than a state or local governmental
unit, including the District, will use the system on any basis other than the
same basis as the general public; and no person, other than a state or local
governmental unit, including the District, will be a user of the system as a
result of ownership, actual or beneficial use pursuant to a lease, a management
contract or an incentive payment contract or any other similar arrangement,
including a take or pay contract for use of service therefrom.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.20 GENERAL ARBITRAGE COVENANTS.
   The District represents and certifies as follows with respect to the bonds.
   (A)   Except for the Bond and Interest Account and the Bond Reserve Account,
the District has not created or established and will not create or establish
any sinking fund, reserve fund or any other similar fund to provide for the
payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2007
Bonds. The Bond and Interest Account has been established and will be funded in
a manner primarily to achieve a proper matching of revenues and debt service
and will be depleted (through the periodic payment of debt service) at least
annually to an amount not in excess of one-twelfth the applicable annual debt
service on the Series 2007 Bonds. Money deposited into the Series 2007 Bond and
Interest Account will be spent within a 13-month period beginning on the date
of deposit, and investment earnings in such account will be spent or withdrawn
therefrom within a one-year period beginning on the date of receipt.
   (B)   Amounts of money related to the Series 2007 Bonds required to be
invested at a yield not materially higher than the yield on the Series 2007
Bonds, as determined pursuant to such tax certifications or agreements as the
Chairperson or the Treasurer of the District may make in connection with the
issuance of the Series 2007 Bonds, shall be so invested; and the appropriate
officers of the District are hereby authorized to make such investments.
   (C)   The District further certifies and covenants as follows with respect
to the requirements of I.R.C. § 148(f), relating to the rebate of “excess
arbitrage profits” (the “rebate requirement”) to the United States of America.
      (1)   Unless an applicable exception to the rebate requirement is
available to the District, the District will meet the rebate requirement.
      (2)   Relating to applicable exceptions, the Chairperson or the Treasurer
of the District is hereby authorized to make such elections under the Code as
either such officer shall deem reasonable and in the best interests of the
District.
      (3)   The officers of the District shall cause to be established, at such
time and in such manner as they may deem necessary or appropriate hereunder, a
Waterworks Revenue Bonds, Series 2007, Rebate Account (the “148 Compliance
Account”) for the Series 2007 Bonds, and such officers shall further, not less
frequently than annually, cause to be transferred to the 148 Compliance Account
the amount determined to be the accrued liability under the rebate requirement.
Said officers shall cause to be paid to the United States of America, without
further order or direction from the Board, from time to time as required,
amounts sufficient to meet the rebate requirement.
      (4)   Interest earnings in the accounts in the Waterworks Fund are hereby
authorized to be transferred, without further order or direction from the
Board, from time to time as required, to the 148 Compliance Account for the
purposes herein provided; and the proceeds of the Series 2007 Bonds and other
funds of the District are also hereby authorized to be used to meet the rebate
requirement, but only if necessary after application of investment earnings as
aforesaid and only as appropriated by the Board.
   (D)   The District also certifies and further covenants with the purchasers
and registered owners of the bonds from time to time outstanding that moneys on
deposit in any fund or account in connection with the Series 2007 Bonds,
whether or not such moneys were derived from the proceeds of the sale of the
Series 2007 Bonds or from any other source, will not be used in a manner which
will cause the Series 2007 Bonds to be arbitrage bonds within the meaning of
I.R.C. § 148 and any lawful regulations promulgated thereunder, as the same
presently exist or may from time to time hereafter be amended, supplemented or
revised.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.21 REGISTERED FORM.
   The District recognizes that I.R.C. § 149 requires the Series 2007 Bonds to
be issued and to remain in fully registered form in order for the interest
thereon to be and remain tax-exempt. In this connection, the District agrees
that it will not take any action to permit the Series 2007 Bonds to be issued
in, or converted into, bearer or coupon form.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.22 FURTHER TAX COVENANTS.
   (A)   The District agrees to comply with all provisions of the Code which,
if not complied with by the District, would cause the interest on the Series
2007 Bonds not to be tax exempt.
   (B)   In furtherance of the foregoing provisions, but without limiting their
generality, the District agrees:
      (1)   Through its officers, to make such further specific covenants,
representations as shall be truthful and assurances as may be necessary or
advisable;
      (2)   To comply with all representations, covenants and assurances
contained in certificates or agreements as may be prepared by counsel approving
the Series 2007 Bonds;
      (3)   To consult with such counsel and to comply with such advice as may
be given;
      (4)   To file such forms, statements and supporting documents as may be
required and in a timely manner; and
      (5)   If deemed necessary or advisable by its officers, to employ and pay
fiscal agents, financial advisors, attorneys and other persons to assist the
District in such compliance.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.23 OPINION OF COUNSEL EXCEPTION.
   The District reserves the right to use or invest moneys in connection with
the Series 2007 Bonds in any manner, or to enter into contracts with private
persons for service from the system, or to treat or use the system in any
manner, notwithstanding the covenants in §§
60.14 and
60.18 through
60.22; provided, that it shall first have received an opinion from an attorney
or a firm of attorneys of nationally recognized standing as municipal bond
counsel to the effect that such use or investment of such moneys, or such
entering into such contract, or such treatment of or use of the system, as
contemplated, will not result in an adverse effect on the tax-exempt status of
the interest on the Series 2007 Bonds.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.24 PROVISIONS A CONTRACT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall constitute a contract between
the District and the registered owners of the bonds; and no changes, additions
or alterations of any kind shall be made hereto, except as herein provided, so
long as there are any outstanding bonds.
   (B)   Any registered owner of a bond or bonds may proceed by civil action to
enforce or compel performance by the officials of the District of all duties
required by law and by this subchapter, including the making and collecting of
sufficient charges and rates for the services supplied by the system, and the
application of the income and revenue therefrom.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter expressed or implied is intended or shall
be construed to confer upon, or to give or grant to, any person or entity,
other than the District, the Bond Registrar and the registered owners of the
bonds, any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this subchapter or any
covenant, condition or stipulation hereof, and all covenants, stipulations,
promises and agreements in this subchapter contained by and on behalf of the
District shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the District, the Bond
Registrar and the registered owners of the bonds.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 60.25 DEFEASANCE.
   Bonds which are no longer outstanding bonds as defined in this subchapter
shall cease to have any lien on or right to receive or be paid from system
revenues and shall no longer have the benefits of any covenant for the
registered owners of the bonds as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-12-2007)
ESCROW ACCOUNT
§ 60.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to authorize and direct that amounts
required to be deposited into the Bond and Interest Account of the Waterworks
Fund of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District, Sangamon County,
Illinois, to pay the principal of and interest on the Waterworks Revenue Bonds,
Series 2007 of the District, shall be deposited or required to be deposited
directly into a designated Escrow Account, and that all amounts deposited or
required to be deposited into such Waterworks Fund shall be deposited directly
into such Escrow Account under certain circumstances.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-2-2007)
§ 60.41 AUTHORIZATION OF ESCROW AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the District is hereby authorized and directed to
execute and deliver, and the Secretary of the District is hereby authorized and
directed to attest, the Escrow Agreement in substantially the form attached to
the ordinance codified in this subchapter (the “Escrow Agreement”), with such
changes therein as shall be approved by the Chairperson of the District, and
the execution of the Escrow Agreement by the Chairperson of the District shall
constitute conclusive evidence of his or her approval and the approval of the
Board of any departures therein from the form thereof attached and made a part
of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Escrow Account created in the Escrow Agreement shall be
established by the District with Illinois National Bank, to repay the bonds and
shall be maintained in accordance with all of the terms and provisions of the
Escrow Agreement.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-2-2007)
§ 60.42 PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this subchapter shall be published in pamphlet
form and shall be effective immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-2-2007)
CHAPTER 61: WATERWORKS REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2009
Section
   
61.01   Definitions
   
61.02   Recitals
   
61.03   Issue bonds; single utility
   
61.04   Useful life
   
61.05   Bond details
   
61.06   Redemption
   
61.07   Amendment
   
61.08   Execution; authentication
   
61.09   Registered owners
   
61.10   Form of bond
   
61.11   Bonds as limited obligations
   
61.12   Waterworks Fund and accounts
   
61.13   Flow of funds
   
61.14   General covenants
   
61.15   Issuance of parity bonds
   
61.16   Sale of bonds
   
61.17   Use of proceeds; Construction Fund
   
61.18   Covenants with respect to Board Registrar
   
61.19   Not private activity bonds
   
61.20   General arbitrage covenants
   
61.21   Registered form
   
61.22   Further tax covenants
   
61.23   Opinion of counsel exception
   
61.24   Provisions a contract
   
61.25   Defeasance
   
61.26   Graduation
   
61.27   Publication and effective date
§ 61.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the District and any successor to the duties
and functions of such governing body.
   BOND or BONDS. One or more, as applicable, of the Series 2009 Bonds and the
parity bonds.
   BOND REGISTER. The books of the District kept by the Bond Registrar to
evidence the registration and transfer of the bonds.
   BOND REGISTRAR. The District’s Treasurer or any successor thereto as
designated under this chapter.
   BOND RESERVE REQUIREMENT. A sum equal to the greater of $147,240 and the
maximum principal and interest requirements for the Series 2009 Bonds in any
succeeding fiscal year.
   CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as
amended.
   DISTRICT. The Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District, Sangamon
County, Illinois, and any successor to the duties and functions of the
District.
   ENABLING LAW. As set forth in the preambles to the ordinance codified in
this chapter.
   FISCAL YEAR. A 12-month period beginning on May 1 of a calendar year and
ending on April 30 of the following calendar year.
   NET REVENUES. Gross revenues of the system minus costs of operation and
maintenance, before making provision for depreciation or other accounts as
required by this chapter.
   OUTSTANDING BONDS. The bonds which are outstanding and unpaid; provided,
however, such term shall not include bonds which have matured and for which
moneys are on deposit with proper paying agents or are otherwise properly
available, sufficient to pay all principal thereof and interest thereon, or the
provision for payment of which has been made by the District by the deposit in
an irrevocable trust or escrow of funds, which may be invested in direct, full
faith and credit obligations of the United States of America, the principal of
and interest on which will be sufficient, with any funds left uninvested, to
pay at maturity or as called for redemption all principal thereof and interest
thereon.
   PARITY BONDS. The Series 2007 Bonds and any other bond or other obligation
to be issued which will share ratably and equally in the revenues of the system
with the Series 2009 Bonds.
   PROJECT. As defined in the preambles to the ordinance codified in this
chapter.
   SERIES 2009 BOND or SERIES 2009 BONDS. One or more, as applicable, of the
$2,800,000 aggregate principal amount of Waterworks Revenue Bonds, Series 2009,
authorized to be issued by this chapter.
   SYSTEM. All property, real, personal or otherwise owned or to be owned by
the District or under the control of the District, and used for waterworks
purposes, and any and all further extensions, improvements and additions to the
system.
   WATERWORKS FUND. The Waterworks Fund of the District created and established
by this chapter.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.02 RECITALS.
   The Board hereby finds that all of the recitals contained in the preambles
to the ordinance codified in this section are full, true and correct, and does
hereby incorporate them into this chapter by this reference. The Board does
further find and determine that the Series 2009 Bonds may be validly issued in
parity with the Series 2007 Bonds in accordance with the Series 2007 Bond
Ordinance and that the Series 2009 Bonds and the Series 2007 Bonds shall rank
pari-passu with each other, equally and ratably secured by the pledge of the
net revenues. The authority to issue the Series 2009 Bonds is the enabling law.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.03 ISSUE BONDS; SINGLE UTILITY.
   It is necessary and in the best interests of the District to provide for the
payment of a portion of the costs of the acquisition and construction of the
project for the public health, safety and welfare, in accordance with the plans
and specifications therefor, as described in the preambles hereto, and that the
system be operated as a single utility in accordance with the provisions of the
enabling law.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.04 USEFUL LIFE.
   The Board does hereby determine the period of usefulness of the system to be
at least 50 years from the date of the Series 2009 Bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.05 BOND DETAILS.
   (A)   For the purpose of paying a portion of the costs of the acquisition
and construction of the project, there shall be issued and sold the Series 2009
Bonds in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2,800,000. The Series
2009 Bonds shall initially be represented by one bond in the principal amount
of $2,800,000. If the Series 2009 Bonds are subsequently issued in serial form,
the Series 2009 Bonds shall be issued in the denomination of $1,000 each and
authorized integral multiples thereof.
   (B)   The Series 2009 Bonds shall be dated as of the date or dates of
delivery at one time or from time to time of such bonds to the purchaser or
purchasers thereof and, as the case may be, endorsed with respect to each
advance or draw thereon. Each Series 2009 Bond shall be issued in fully
registered form without coupons in accordance with the provisions hereinafter
set forth. The bonds shall be numbered consecutively from one upwards, bear
interest at the lower of 4.125%, or such other rate requested by the District
at the time the bonds are issued as offered by the government (computed upon
the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) due and payable on the
unpaid principal balance thereof semiannually on February 1 and August 1 of
each year commencing the later of:
      (1)   On and after February 1 or August 1, as the case may be, after the
date of the bonds; or
      (2)   The date of each advance or draw, as the case may be.
   (C)   The principal of the Series 2009 Bonds shall mature on February 1,
2049, and come due in annual installments (either as serial bonds or one or
more installment bonds) on February 1 of the years and in aggregate principal
amount in each year, as follows.
Year Principal Amount
Year  Principal Amount
2012  $28,000
2013  $28,000
2014  $28,000
2015  $28,000
2016  $28,000
2017  $28,000
2018  $28,000
2019  $28,000
2020  $56,000
2021  $56,000
2022  $56,000
2023  $56,000
2024  $56,000
2025  $56,000
2026  $56,000
2027  $56,000
2028  $56,000
2029  $56,000
2030  $56,000
2031  $56,000
2032  $84,000
2033  $84,000
2034  $84,000
2035  $84,000
2036  $84,000
2037  $84,000
2038  $84,000
2039  $84,000
2040  $112,000
2041  $112,000
2042  $112,000
2043  $112,000
2044  $112,000
2045  $112,000
2046  $140,000
2047  $140,000
2048  $140,000
2049  $140,000
Total $2,800,000
 
   (D)   The District Treasurer or the government’s Rural or Community
Development Specialist, Manager, Technician or other loan representative
(including successors, each a “government representative”) is authorized to
endorse any advance or draw against any bond and each payment or prepayment of
principal of any bond in the manner set forth on the schedule therefor in the
Series 2009 Bond form.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.06 REDEMPTION.
   The Series 2009 Bonds shall be subject to redemption and prepayment, as a
whole or in part, at the option of the District, in the inverse order of
maturity or, as the case may be, the due date of an annual installment of
principal (selected by lot by the District Treasurer in the event of redemption
of less than all principal of a maturity or installment) at any time in any
integral multiple of $1,000 at a price of par and accrued interest to the date
of prepayment and redemption. Written notice of the District’s option to redeem
any or all of the Series 2009 Bonds shall be given by the District in the
manner, at the times and with the effect as directed in the bond form herein
prescribed for the Series 2009 Bonds. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Series
2009 Bonds may not be defeased or advance refunded without the consent of the
government while the government is the holder or insurer of all of the
outstanding Series 2009 Bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.07 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The rights and obligations of the District and of the registered
owners of the outstanding bonds may from time to time be modified or amended by
a supplemental ordinance adopted by the Board upon the written consent of the
registered owners of not less than two-thirds of the aggregate principal amount
of all outstanding bonds (excluding any outstanding bonds owned by or under the
control of the District unless all outstanding bonds are so owned); provided,
however, that no such modification or amendment shall extend or change the
maturity of or date fixed for redemption prior to maturity of, or reduce the
interest rate on, or permit the creation of a preference or priority of, any
outstanding bond or outstanding bonds over any other outstanding bond or
outstanding bonds, or otherwise alter or impair the obligation of the District
to pay the principal of, interest on and redemption premium (if any) on any of
the outstanding bonds at the time, place, rate and in the currency provided
therein, or alter or impair the obligations of the District with respect to
registration, transfer, exchange or notice of redemption of bonds, without the
express consent of the registered owners of all the outstanding bonds affected;
nor shall any such modification or amendment reduce the percentage of aggregate
principal amount of outstanding bonds hereinabove required for written consent
by the registered owners thereof to any modification or amendment without the
consent of the owners of all of the outstanding bonds.
   (B)   In the case of the bonds, ownership of bonds for purposes of consent
by the registered owners thereof shall be conclusively proved by the Bond
Register. In obtaining or receiving the consents of the registered owners of
the bonds, the District may establish reasonable rules of procedure, including,
without limitation, rules relating to a record date to fix the registered
owners thereof who are entitled to vote, solicitation of proxies and a meeting
of the registered owners thereof for the taking of actions. The registered
owners of the bonds may vote their bond interest in fractional shares. In the
event that the bonds are registered in the name or names of nominees or
depositories, the consent of such owners by proxy in accordance with the
applicable customs of the securities industry or rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board or other association
or agency having jurisdiction shall be sufficient.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.08 EXECUTION; AUTHENTICATION.
   (A)   The Series 2009 Bonds shall be executed on behalf of the District with
the manual or duly authorized facsimile signature of the Chairperson of the
District and attested with the manual or duly authorized facsimile signature of
the Secretary of the District. In case any officer whose signature shall appear
on any Series 2009 Bond shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of
such Series 2009 Bond, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and
sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office
until delivery.
   (B)   All Series 2009 Bonds shall have thereon a certificate of
authentication substantially in the form hereinafter set forth duly executed by
the Bond Registrar as authenticating agent of the District and showing the date
of authentication. No Series 2009 Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any
purpose or be entitled to any security or benefit under this chapter unless and
until such certificate of authentication shall have been duly executed by the
Bond Registrar by manual signature, and such certificate of authentication upon
any such Series 2009 Bond shall be conclusive evidence that such Series 2009
Bond has been authenticated and delivered under this chapter. The certificate
of authentication on any Series 2009 Bond shall be deemed to have been executed
by it if signed by an authorized officer of the Bond Registrar, but it shall
not be necessary that the same officer sign the certificate of authentication
on all of the Series 2009 Bonds issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.09 REGISTERED OWNERS.
   (A)   Both the principal of and interest on the Series 2009 Bonds shall be
payable to the registered owners thereof in lawful money of the United States
of America by check or draft of the District mailed to the registered owners
thereof at the addresses of such registered owners as shown on the registration
books of the District.
   (B)   (1)   The Series 2009 Bonds shall be signed by the Chairperson, sealed
with the corporate seal of the District and attested by the Secretary.
      (2)   The use of the facsimile signatures of such officers, and a
facsimile of the official seal of the District, are hereby authorized in lieu
of manual signatures and a manual seal impression. The signature of the Bond
Registrar shall be a manual signature.
   (C)   (1)   The Series 2009 Bonds, together with the interest thereon, shall
be payable solely from the net revenues derived from the system, shall be a
lien upon the net revenues of the system in accordance herewith, but shall not,
in any event, constitute an indebtedness of the District within the meaning of
any constitutional or statutory limitation.
      (2)   All of the bonds issued hereunder shall be payable as they mature
equally and ratably, without regard to the date when any Series 2009 Bonds
actually shall be delivered or advanced or drawn upon and shall enjoy parity of
lien, one with the other (and with respect to advance or draw), upon the net
revenues of the system as provided herein.
   (D)   The Series 2009 Bonds shall be dated as of the date of their issuance,
sale and delivery or advance or draw of principal from time to time, duly
endorsed on the Series 2009 Bond, as the case may be, to the original purchaser
or purchasers thereof.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.10 FORM OF BOND.
   The Series 2009 Bonds shall be in substantially the form set forth in the
ordinance codified in this chapter, with appropriate insertions and
modifications not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of said ordinance.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.11 BONDS AS LIMITED OBLIGATIONS.
   The Series 2009 Bonds shall be payable only from the net revenues derived
from the operation of the system and shall not constitute an indebtedness of
the District payable from taxes, nor shall the Series 2009 Bonds constitute an
indebtedness or obligation of the District within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory provision or limitation.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.12 WATERWORKS FUND AND ACCOUNTS.
   Upon the issuance of any of the Series 2009 Bonds, the system shall be
operated on a fiscal year basis. All of the gross revenues from any source
whatsoever derived directly or indirectly from the use and operation of the
system shall be set aside as collected and be deposited into the hereinafter
referred to Revenue Account of a separate fund in an account in a bank
designated by the Board, which fund is hereby established and designated as the
Waterworks Fund of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public Water District (the
“Waterworks Fund”), which Waterworks Fund shall constitute a trust fund for the
sole purpose of carrying out the covenants, terms and conditions of this
chapter and shall be used only in paying the reasonable cost of the operation
and maintenance of the system, paying the principal of and interest on all
revenue bonds of the District which by their terms are payable from the
revenues derived from the system, providing an adequate depreciation fund and
providing for the establishment of and expenditure from the respective accounts
hereinafter described.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.13 FLOW OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Separate accounts are hereby established in the Waterworks Fund and
designated as the Revenue Account, the Operation and Maintenance Account, the
Bond and Interest Account, the Bond Reserve Account, the Depreciation,
Improvement and Extension Account and the Surplus Revenue Account. All gross
revenues of the system shall be deposited into the Revenue Account as and when
received by the District.
   (B)   There shall be set aside on the first business day of each month
without any further official action or direction all moneys held in the Revenue
Account of the Waterworks Fund of the District, in accordance with the
following priority.
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account.
         (a)   There shall be credited to the Operation and Maintenance Account
on the first business day of each month an amount sufficient, when added to the
amount then on deposit in the Operation and Maintenance Account, to pay the
reasonable expense of the operation and maintenance of the system for the next
succeeding calendar month, including all of such expenses usual in such a
system, and including one-twelfth of all such expenses computed on an annual
basis.
         (b)   Money in the Operation and Maintenance Account shall be used to
pay all costs reasonably incurred in connection with the continued operation,
use and maintenance of the system, other than capital improvements (including
the purchase of new meters) necessary to keep the system in efficient and
economical operating condition, including the payment of premiums for insurance
hereinafter required to be carried, and generally for all expenses (except
depreciation) which under good accounting practice are properly chargeable to,
and are reasonable and necessary to, the efficient maintenance and operation of
the system. Money in the Operation and Maintenance Account shall not be used to
pay the costs of extraordinary or unusual repairs and maintenance or capital
expenditures, any transfer in lieu of corporate taxes or general supervision or
administrative charges by the District.
      (2)   Bond and Interest Account.
         (a)   Beginning on the first business day of the calendar month
following delivery of the Series 2009 Bonds, there shall next be credited to
the Bond and Interest Account an amount which, taking into account an equal
amount to be deposited on the first business day of each succeeding calendar
month, to and including July 1, 2009, will not be less than the amount of
interest coming due on the bonds on August 1, 2009. Beginning on the first
business day of the calendar month commencing August 2009, there next shall be
credited to the Bond and Interest Account an amount at least equal to one-sixth
of the interest next becoming due on all bonds, unless and until there is on
hand in said account the full amount of the interest payable on all bonds on
the succeeding interest payment date.
         (b)   Additionally, beginning on the first business day of each month,
commencing February 2011, there next shall be credited to the Bond and Interest
Account an amount at least equal to one-twelfth of the principal next becoming
due on all of the bonds, unless and until there is on hand in said account the
full amount of the principal becoming due on the bonds on the succeeding
principal maturity date.
         (c)   Credits to the Bond and Interest Account may be suspended in any
fiscal year at such time as there shall be sufficient money (including amounts
derived from investment earnings on amounts therein) in said account to pay
principal and interest due on the bonds on the next payment date for such
principal or interest, but such credits shall again be resumed at the beginning
of the new fiscal year. All moneys in the Bond and Interest Account shall be
used only for the purpose of paying the interest on and principal of the bonds.
         (d)   Any and all sums received from the purchaser of the Series 2009
Bonds as accrued interest thereon to date of delivery thereof shall be credited
to the Bond and Interest Account pursuant to §
61.17, and applied to pay the interest coming due on the Series 2009 Bonds on
August 1, 2009.
         (e)   Funds to pay all of said principal and interest, together with
the fees and expenses (if any) of the appropriate paying agent for the bonds,
shall be remitted to such paying agent at least 15 days prior to the date of
payment of said principal or interest; provided, however, that all paying
agency fees shall be paid from the Operation and Maintenance Account.
      (3)   Bond Reserve Account.
         (a)   Commencing on the first business day of the month following
issuance of the Series 2009 Bonds, there shall be credited to the Bond Reserve
Account on the first business day of each month, the sum of $1,227, or such
greater amount as may be designated from time to time by the Board, until the
aggregate amount on deposit in the Bond Reserve Account equals the Bond Reserve
Requirement. Thereafter, any amount necessary to bring the balance of moneys on
deposit in the Bond Reserve Account to an amount equal to the Bond Reserve
Requirement shall be credited to the Bond Reserve Account on the first day of
each calendar month, until all of the outstanding bonds have been paid or
provision shall have been made for their payment; provided, however, that
whenever the balance in the Bond Reserve Account is equal to the bond reserve
requirement, any surplus over and above said maximum amount, shall be
transferred to the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account or, at the
discretion of the Board, may be used for calling and redeeming outstanding
bonds prior to their maturity, or for purchasing on the open market at not more
than 100% of the principal amount thereof and accrued interest on any of the
outstanding bonds which are payable from the revenues of the system. No
outstanding bonds shall be purchased within the 60 days immediately prior to
the next succeeding redemption date of any outstanding bonds, and all such
outstanding bonds purchased or redeemed shall be cancelled.
         (b)   Except as provided above, moneys in the Bond Reserve Account
shall be retained and used only for the payment of principal of or interest on
all outstanding bonds at any time when there are insufficient funds available
in the Bond and Interest Account to pay such principal of or interest on the
outstanding bonds as the same become due. In the event that moneys are
withdrawn from the Bond Reserve Account to pay such principal or interest, the
District shall replenish the Bond Reserve Account as above provided. Until the
Bond Reserve Account is so replenished, the District shall also continue to
make deposits to the Bond Reserve Account from the Revenue Account as herein
provided.
      (4)   Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account.
         (a)   Commencing on the first business day of the month following
issuance of the Series 2009 Bonds, there shall next be credited to the
Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account the sum of $6,025, or such
greater amount as may be designated from time to time by the District, until
the aggregate amount on deposit in the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension
Account equals $776,500 (or such greater amount as may be designated from time
to time by the District). Thereafter, in the event that the balance in the
Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account is less than $776,500 (or such
greater amount as shall be designated from time to time by the Board), there
shall next be credited to the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account
on the first business day of each month the sum of $6,025, or such greater
amount as may be designated from time to time by the Board, until all of the
outstanding bonds have been paid or provision shall have been made for their
payment.
         (b)   The moneys in the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension
Account shall be used first to provide an adequate allowance for depreciation
as shall be determined from time to time by the Board, and may be used from
time to time to pay for any extraordinary maintenance, repairs and necessary
replacements or, if not so needed, for improvement or extension of the system,
including new meters. Said funds shall be used at any time to pay the principal
of or interest upon any outstanding bonds payable from the revenues of the
system whenever there are no other funds available to pay the same; provided,
however, that from and after such time as the Depreciation, Improvement and
Extension Account aggregates the sum of $776,500 or such greater amount as
shall be designated from time to time by the Board, any sums in excess thereof
may be transferred to the Bond Reserve Account to remedy any deficiencies
therein or to the Surplus Revenue Account, at the discretion of the Board.
         (c)   All proceeds received from the disposition of any property of
the system shall be credited to the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension
Account and may be used to pay the cost of improvements or extensions to the
system remaining, or may be used for calling and redeeming outstanding bonds
prior to their maturity, or for purchasing outstanding bonds on the open market
at not more than 100% of the principal amount thereof and accrued interest on
any of the outstanding bonds.
      (5)   Surplus Revenue Account. All revenues remaining in the Revenue
Account of the Waterworks Fund, after all credits have been made to the
respective accounts herein provided for, shall at the end of each month be
credited to the Surplus Revenue Account, and the amount so credited shall be
held and used for the following purposes (in the order listed):
         (a)   For making up any deficiency necessary to credit the accounts
described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above with the required amounts
therefor for each month as hereinabove provided;
         (b)   For paying principal of or interest on any junior lien bonds
(subordinate issue); or
         (c)   For transfer to any account of the Waterworks Fund, or, at the
discretion of the Board, for any other lawful corporate purpose, including, but
not limited to, any authorized payments in lieu of taxes, general supervision
and administrative charges of the District.
      (6)   Investment of funds.
         (a)   Except as provided below, moneys remaining in any of the
accounts hereinabove created and designated may be invested from time to time,
in direct obligations of the United States of America or in certificates of
deposit fully secured by direct or fully guaranteed obligations of the United
States of America, municipal bonds rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies,
Inc., in one of the four highest rating categories of such rating agency, and,
except for moneys in the Bond and Interest Account and the Bond Reserve
Account, in any other investments permitted by law and maturing not later than
the earliest date on which it is estimated the moneys in said accounts will be
needed, but in no event later than five years from the date of such investment.
Such securities shall be sold from time to time without further authority of
the Board as moneys may be needed for the purpose for which said accounts have
been created. All accrued interest on any moneys so invested shall first be
credited to the Waterworks Fund and then credited to the account for which the
investment was made.
         (b)   All uninvested money on hand shall be deposited in banks
selected as depositories by the Board from time to time so as to be available
when needed. All money in the Waterworks Fund may be deposited in a single bank
account, but each account in the Waterworks Fund will be accounted for
separately.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.14 GENERAL COVENANTS.
   The District covenants and agrees with the owners of the Series 2009 Bonds
to the following, so long as the bonds or any of them remain outstanding and
unpaid, either as to principal or interest.
   (A)   The District will maintain the system, and all improvements,
extensions and additions thereto, in good repair and working order, will
operate the same efficiently and faithfully and will punctually perform all
duties with respect thereto required by its ordinances (including this
chapter), the Constitution and the laws of the state.
   (B)   (1)   The District will establish and maintain at all times reasonable
fees, charges and rates for all users of the service of the system, and provide
for the collection thereof and for the segregation and application of the
revenues of the system in the manner provided by this chapter, and sufficient
at all times to pay the reasonable costs of operation and maintenance, to pay
the interest on and principal of all revenue bonds of the District which by
their terms are payable from the revenues of the system, and to provide for the
continuance and maintenance of the respective accounts as provided in §
61.13, and from time to time to make all needful and proper repairs,
replacements, additions and betterments thereto, so that the system may at all
times be operated properly and advantageously; and, when any equipment or
facility shall have been worn out, destroyed or otherwise is insufficient for
proper use, it shall be promptly replaced or repaired so that the value and
efficiency of the system shall be at all times fully maintained.
      (2)   The District further agrees that such fees, charges and rates will
be established and maintained in such manner as is sufficient at all times to
provide net revenues in each fiscal year in the amount of not less than 125% of
the current debt service requirement for all outstanding bonds for such fiscal
year.
      (3)   Charges for service rendered to the District shall be made against
the District, and payment for the same from available funds of the District
shall be made monthly into the Waterworks Fund established by this chapter, as
revenues derived from the operation of the system, in the same manner as other
revenues are required to be deposited; provided, however, that the District
need not charge itself for water service so long as the revenues of the system
are otherwise adequate to meet all the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   No free service of the system shall be furnished to any person,
firm, organization or corporation, public or private (other than the use of
water from fire hydrants by fire departments for their emergency response
efforts), and to the extent permitted by law it is expressly herein covenanted
and agreed that the District will not grant a franchise for the operation of
any other or competing waterworks system or sewerage system (other than any
governmental sanitary sewerage system providing services not currently provided
by the District) or combination thereof within the District, and that the bonds
herein authorized to be executed shall constitute legally enforceable liens on
the revenues of the system of said District, including all further extensions,
additions and improvements thereto, whether acquired through purchase, contract
or otherwise.
   (C)   The District will establish such rules and regulations for the control
and operation of the system necessary for the efficient and economical
operation thereof, and rates and charges shall be fixed and revised from time
to time as may be necessary to produce funds sufficient for all purposes herein
provided until all of the Series 2009 Bonds have been paid in full, both as to
principal and interest (or provision therefor has been made).
   (D)   (1)   The District will make and keep proper books and accounts
(separate and apart from all other records and accounts of the District), in
which complete entries shall be made of all transactions relating to the
system, and hereby covenants that within 90 days following the close of each
fiscal year it will cause the books and accounts of the system to be audited
annually by independent certified public accountants showing the receipts and
disbursements on account of the system, and that said audit will be available
for inspection by the owners of any of the bonds.
      (2)   Each such audit, in addition to whatever matters may be thought
proper by the accountants to be included therein, shall, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, include the following:
         (a)   A statement in detail of the income and expenditures of the
system for such fiscal year, and including credits to the various accounts
provided for in this chapter;
         (b)   A balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal year;
         (c)   The accountant’s comment regarding the manner in which the
District has carried out the accounting requirements of this chapter, and the
accountant’s recommendations for any changes or improvements in the operation
of the system;
         (d)   A list of all insurance policies in force at the end of the
fiscal year, setting out as to each policy the amount of the policy, the risks
covered, the name of the insurer and the expiration date of the policy; and
         (e)   The number of metered water customers and the number of
unmetered water customers at the end of the fiscal year and the quantity of
water pumped.
      (3)   (a)   All expenses incurred in the making of the audit required by
this section shall be regarded and paid as an operation and maintenance
expense, and it is further covenanted and agreed that a copy of each such audit
shall be furnished upon completion to the owner of any Series 2009 Bond upon
request.
         (b)   In addition, statements of revenues and expenditures of the
system shall be furnished to the Board at least quarterly during each fiscal
year, and a copy of such statement shall be furnished to the original purchaser
of the Series 2009 Bonds herein authorized and shall also be furnished to the
owner of any Series 2009 Bond upon request.
   (E)   (1)   The District will not sell, lease, loan, mortgage or in any
manner dispose of or encumber the system (subject to the reserved right of the
District to issue parity bonds as provided in §
61.15) until all of the bonds shall be paid in full, both principal and
interest, or unless and until provision shall have been made for the payment
thereof; provided, however, that this covenant shall not prevent the District
from otherwise disposing of any property which, in the judgment of the Board,
is no longer useful or profitable in the operation of the system, nor essential
to the continued operation of the system, and this covenant shall not prevent
the District from disposing of any or all of its sewerage facilities should
such function be furnished by another municipal corporation in the area of the
District; provided, that the earnings of the remaining facilities of the
waterworks system of the District will continue to be sufficient to meet all
requirements of this chapter as based on the prior fiscal year’s audit as
adjusted by an independent consulting engineer for the change in operations and
any rate revisions placed into effect.
      (2)   The proceeds from the sale of any property shall be credited to the
Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account hereinabove established in §
61.13.
   (F)   (1)   The District will provide insurance coverage (which may be
provided through self-insurance or one or more commercial insurance policies,
as permitted by law) on the system of the kinds and in the amounts which are
usually carried by private parties operating similar properties, including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, fire, windstorm, public
liability and all additional insurance covering such risks as shall be
recommended by a competent consulting engineer employed for the purpose of
making such recommendation, and all moneys received for loss under any such
insurance shall be deposited in the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension
Account and used in making good the loss or damage in respect of which they
were paid, either by repairing the property damaged or replacing the property
destroyed, and provision for making good such loss or damage shall be made
within 90 days from date of loss.
      (2)   The payment of premiums for all insurance policies required under
the provisions of this covenant shall be considered an operation and
maintenance expense.
      (3)   The proceeds derived from any and all policies for public
liability, if any, shall be credited to the Operation and Maintenance Account
and used as necessary in paying the claims on account of which they were
received.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.15 ISSUANCE OF PARITY BONDS.
   It is hereby covenanted and agreed with the registered owners of the Series
2009 Bonds that the District will not issue any other or additional bonds or
other evidence of obligations of the District payable from or in any way
creating a charge upon the income and revenue to be derived from the operation
of the system on an equal parity with or superior to the Series 2009 Bonds
other than as herein provided.
   (A)   The District reserves the right to issue additional bonds from time to
time for the sole purpose of paying the cost of the completion of the
acquisition, construction, extension and improving of the project to be made in
accordance with the plans and specifications referred to in the preambles
hereof for which the Series 2009 Bonds are authorized, and any such additional
bonds shall be secured ratably and equally by the net revenues with the Series
2009 Bonds; provided, however, that the need of such financing shall be
evidenced by a certificate of an independent consulting engineer in responsible
charge of such construction, extension and improvement giving a reasonably
detailed description of the work remaining to be completed, an estimate of the
cost thereof and the time of completion thereof and stating in reasonably
itemized detail all expenditures made from the proceeds of the Series 2009
Bonds as to the amount and purpose; and provided, further, however, that while
the government is the holder of any of the Series 2009 Bonds, written approval
of such financing shall be obtained from the government and evidence of such
approval placed on file with the District Secretary prior to the adoption of
any proceedings authorizing the issuance of such additional bonds.
   (B)   The District further reserves the right to issue additional bonds for
the acquisition and construction of further necessary improvements, extensions,
repairs and rehabilitations to the properties comprising the system, such
additional bonds to share ratably and equally in the net revenues with the
Series 2009 Bonds, only whenever all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The net revenues derived from the operation of the system for the
completed fiscal year immediately preceding the date of the adoption of any
ordinance authorizing the issuance of additional revenue bonds shall have been
equal to at least 120% of the average annual principal and interest
requirements for all succeeding fiscal years on all the revenue bonds of the
District payable from net revenues then outstanding and the additional revenue
bonds then proposed to be issued, and all the payments required to be made by
the District into the Accounts set forth in § 60.13, shall have been made up to
and including the date of the adoption of any such ordinance authorizing the
issuance of additional revenue bonds. For the purpose of this section, NET
REVENUES shall be defined as the annual gross revenues of the system less the
cost of the operation and maintenance of the system for such year and shall be
certified to by an independent certified public accountant.
      (2)   Any such additional revenue bonds which may be issued in compliance
with the provisions contained hereinabove shall be payable as to principal on
February 1 in each year in which principal falls due and shall be payable as to
interest on February 1 and August 1 in each year in which interest falls due.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing and notwithstanding the foregoing
restrictions, additional parity bonds may be issued only upon the written
approval of the government if it shall then be the holder or insurer of all the
Series 2009 Bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.16 SALE OF BONDS.
   The sale of the Series 2009 Bonds to the government, at a price equal to the
par value thereof and bearing interest at the rate or rates per annum herein
provided is hereby approved and confirmed, and the Series 2009 Bonds hereby
authorized shall be executed as in this chapter provided as soon after the
passage hereof as may be, and thereupon be deposited with the Treasurer of the
District, and be by said Treasurer delivered to the purchaser thereof. It is
hereby found and determined that the Series 2009 Bonds have been sold at such
price and bear interest at such rates that neither the true interest cost
(yield) nor the net interest rate received upon such sale exceed the maximum
rate otherwise authorized by state law and that no person holding an office of
the District either by election or appointment, is in any manner interested,
either directly or indirectly, in his or her own name or in the name of any
other person, association, trust or corporation, in the sale of the Series 2009
Bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.17 USE OF PROCEEDS; CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   The proceeds of the sale of the bonds, exclusive of accrued interest,
if any, which is to be applied as provided in §
61.13, shall be placed in a bank or banks designated as depositories by the
Board (or invested from time to time in direct or fully guaranteed obligations
of the United States of America having a maturity date not later than that on
which funds will be needed) in a separate account to be designated the
Waterworks Construction Fund Account of the Curran-Gardner Townships Public
Water District (the “Construction Fund”). The accrued interest, if any, shall
be credited to the Bond and Interest Account herein established. The funds in
the Construction Fund shall be held for the benefit of the District for the
purposes herein provided, and for the benefit of the owners of the bonds as
their interest may appear, and said funds shall be withdrawn from the
Construction Fund from time to time by the Treasurer of the District only upon
submission of the following:
      (1)   A duplicate copy of the order signed by the Chairperson and
Secretary of the District, or such other officers that may from time to time be
by law authorized to sign and countersign orders on the Treasury of the
District, stating specifically the purpose for which the order is issued and
indicating that the payment for which the order is issued has been approved by
the Board; and
      (2)   Each withdrawal of funds by the District Treasurer for payment to a
contractor or contractors for work done in connection with the construction of
the project shall also be accompanied by a certificate executed by the
consulting engineer with respect to the project in charge of the construction
of such improvements, stating the nature of the work completed and the amount
due and payable.
   (B)   Within 60 days after completion of the project in accordance with
plans and specifications therefor, as herein referred to, and as heretofore
approved by the Board, and after all costs have been paid in connection with
the construction thereof, the project engineers shall certify to the Board the
fact that the work has been completed according to said plans and
specifications, and, upon acceptance of the completion of the work by the
District based upon the engineer’s certificate, and after all costs have been
paid, the Chairperson, the Secretary and the consulting engineer with respect
to the project shall execute a certificate and file it with the depository
certifying that the work has been completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications and that all costs have been paid, and, if at that time any
funds remain in said Construction Fund, the same shall be transmitted by said
depository to the Treasurer of the District, and said Treasurer shall credit
said funds to the Depreciation, Improvement and Extension Account.
   (C)   The cost of engineering, legal, financing and other services, the cost
of surveys, designs, soundings, borings, rights-of-way and all other necessary
and incidental expenses, shall be deemed items of cost of acquisition and
construction of the project.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.18 COVENANTS WITH RESPECT TO BOARD REGISTRAR.
   (A)   If requested by the Bond Registrar, the Chairperson and the Treasurer
of the District are authorized to execute the Bond Registrar’s standard form of
agreement between the District and the Bond Registrar (or with such
modifications thereto as the District and the Bond Registrar may agree to) with
respect to the obligations and duties of the Bond Registrar under this chapter.
   (B)   Subject to modification by the express terms of any such agreement,
such duties shall include the following:
      (1)   To act as Bond Registrar, authenticating agent, paying agent and
transfer agent as provided herein;
      (2)   To maintain a list of the owners of the bonds as set forth herein
and to furnish such list to the District upon request, but otherwise to keep
such list confidential to the extent permitted by law;
      (3)   To give notice of redemption of bonds as provided herein;
      (4)   To cancel and/or destroy bonds which have been paid at maturity or
upon earlier redemption or submitted for exchange or transfer;
      (5)   To furnish the District at least annually a certificate with
respect to bonds cancelled and/or destroyed; and
      (6)   To furnish the District at least annually an audit confirmation of
bonds paid, bonds outstanding and payments made with respect to interest on the
bonds.
   (C)   The Secretary of the District is hereby directed to file a certified
copy of this chapter with the Bond Registrar.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.19 NOT PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS.
   (A)   None of the Series 2009 Bonds is a private activity bond as defined in
I.R.C. § 141(a).
   (B)   In support of such conclusion, the District certifies, represents and
covenants as follows.
      (1)   None of the proceeds of the Series 2009 Bonds are to be used,
directly or indirectly, in any trade or business carried on by any person,
other than a state or local governmental unit.
      (2)   No direct or indirect payments are to be made on any Series 2009
Bond with respect to any private business use by any person, other than a state
or local governmental unit.
      (3)   None of the proceeds of the Series 2009 Bonds are to be used,
directly or indirectly, to make or finance loans to persons, other than a state
or local governmental unit.
      (4)   No user of the system, other than a state or local governmental
unit, including the District, will use the system on any basis other than the
same basis as the general public; and no person, other than a state or local
governmental unit, including the District, will be a user of the system as a
result of ownership, actual or beneficial use pursuant to a lease, a management
contract or an incentive payment contract or any other similar arrangement
including a take or pay contract for use of service therefrom.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.20 GENERAL ARBITRAGE COVENANTS.
   (A)   The District represents and certifies as follows with respect to the
bonds:
      (1)   (a)   Except for the Bond and Interest Account and the Bond Reserve
Account, the District has not created or established and will not create or
establish any sinking fund, reserve fund or any other similar fund to provide
for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the
Series 2009 Bonds. The Bond and Interest Account has been established and will
be funded in a manner primarily to achieve a proper matching of revenues and
debt service and will be depleted (through the periodic payment of debt
service) at least annually to an amount not in excess of one-twelfth the
applicable annual debt service on the Series 2009 Bonds.
         (b)   Money deposited into the Series 2009 Bond and Interest Account
will be spent within a 13-month period beginning on the date of deposit, and
investment earnings in such account will be spent or withdrawn there from
within a one-year period beginning on the date of receipt.
      (2)   Amounts of money related to the Series 2009 Bonds required to be
invested at a yield not materially higher than the yield on the Series 2009
Bonds, as determined pursuant to such tax certifications or agreements as the
Chairperson or the Treasurer of the District may make in connection with the
issuance of the Series 2009 Bonds, shall be so invested; and the appropriate
officers of the District are hereby authorized to make such investments.
      (3)   The District further certifies and covenants as follows with
respect to the requirements of I.R.C. § 148(f), relating to the rebate of
excess arbitrage profits (the “rebate requirement”) to the United States of
America:
      (4)   The District reasonably expects not to issue more than $5,000,000
or $10,000,000 of tax exempt obligations in the calendar year the Series 2009
Bonds are issued to be taken into account under I.R.C. §§ 148(f)(4)(D) or 265
(b)(3), respectively. The Series 2009 Bonds qualify for the small issuer
exceptions provided for in I.R.C. §§ 148(f)(4)(D) and 265(b)(3) and are hereby
designated as “qualified tax-exempt obligations” under such I.R.C. § 265(b)(3).
Unless an applicable exception to the rebate requirement is available to the
District, the District will meet the rebate requirement.
      (5)   Relating to applicable exceptions, the Chairperson or the Treasurer
of the District is hereby authorized to make such elections under the Code as
either such officer shall deem reasonable and in the best interests of the
District.
      (6)   The officers of the District shall cause to be established, at such
time and in such manner as they may deem necessary or appropriate hereunder, a
Waterworks Revenue Bonds, Series 2009, Rebate Account (the “148 Compliance
Account”) for the Series 2009 Bonds, and such officers shall further, not less
frequently than annually, cause to be transferred to the 148 Compliance Account
the amount determined to be the accrued liability under the rebate requirement.
Said officers shall cause to be paid to the United States of America, without
further order or direction from the Board, from time to time as required,
amounts sufficient to meet the rebate requirement.
      (7)   Interest earnings in the accounts in the Waterworks Fund are hereby
authorized to be transferred, without further order or direction from the
Board, from time to time as required, to the 148 Compliance Account for the
purposes herein provided; and the proceeds of the Series 2009 Bonds and other
funds of the District are also hereby authorized to be used to meet the rebate
requirement, but only if necessary after application of investment earnings as
aforesaid and only as appropriated by the Board.
   (B)   The District also certifies and further covenants with the purchasers
and registered owners of the bonds from time to time outstanding that moneys on
deposit in any fund or account in connection with the Series 2009 Bonds,
whether or not such moneys were derived from the proceeds of the sale of the
Series 2009 Bonds or from any other source, will not be used in a manner which
will cause the Series 2009 Bonds to be arbitrage bonds within the meaning of
I.R.C. § 148 and any lawful regulations promulgated thereunder, as the same
presently exist or may from time to time hereafter be amended, supplemented or
revised.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.21 REGISTERED FORM.
   The District recognizes that I.R.C. § 149 requires the Series 2009 Bonds to
be issued and to remain in fully registered form in order for the interest
thereon to be and remain tax-exempt. In this connection, the District agrees
that it will not take any action to permit the Series 2009 Bonds to be issued
in, or converted into, bearer or coupon form.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.22 FURTHER TAX COVENANTS.
   (A)   The District agrees to comply with all provisions of the Code which,
if not complied with by the District, would cause the interest on the Series
2009 Bonds not to be tax-exempt.
   (B)   In furtherance of the foregoing provisions, but without limiting their
generality, the District agrees:
      (1)   Through its officers, to make such further specific covenants,
representations as shall be truthful and assurances as may be necessary or
advisable;
      (2)   To comply with all representations, covenants and assurances
contained in certificates or agreements as may be prepared by counsel approving
the Series 2009 Bonds;
      (3)   To consult with such counsel and to comply with such advice as may
be given;
      (4)   To file such forms, statements and supporting documents as may be
required and in a timely manner; and
      (5)   If deemed necessary or advisable by its officers, to employ and pay
fiscal agents, financial advisors, attorneys and other persons to assist the
District in such compliance.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.23 OPINION OF COUNSEL EXCEPTION.
   The District reserves the right to use or invest moneys in connection with
the Series 2009 Bonds in any manner, or to enter into contracts with private
persons for service from the system, or to treat or use the system in any
manner, notwithstanding the covenants in §§
61.14 and
61.18 through
61.22; provided, that it shall first have received an opinion from an attorney
or a firm of attorneys of nationally recognized standing as municipal bond
counsel to the effect that such use or investment of such moneys, or such
entering into such contract, or such treatment of or use of the system, as
contemplated, will not result in an adverse effect on the tax-exempt status of
the interest on the Series 2009 Bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.24 PROVISIONS A CONTRACT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall constitute a contract between the
District and the registered owners of the bonds; and no changes, additions or
alterations of any kind shall be made hereto, except as herein provided, so
long as there are any outstanding bonds.
   (B)   Any registered owner of a bond or bonds may proceed by civil action to
enforce or compel performance by the officials of the District of all duties
required by law and by this chapter, including the making and collecting of
sufficient charges and rates for the services supplied by the system, and the
application of the income and revenue therefrom.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter expressed or implied is intended or shall be
construed to confer upon, or to give or grant to, any person or entity, other
than the District, the Bond Registrar and the registered owners of the bonds,
any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this chapter or any covenant,
condition or stipulation hereof, and all covenants, stipulations, promises and
agreements in this chapter contained by and on behalf of the District shall be
for the sole and exclusive benefit of the District, the Bond Registrar and the
registered owners of the bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.25 DEFEASANCE.
   Bonds which are no longer outstanding bonds as defined in this chapter shall
cease to have any lien on or right to receive or be paid from system revenues
and shall no longer have the benefits of any covenant for the registered owners
of the bonds as set forth in this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Series 2009 Bonds may not be defeased or advance refunded without the consent
of the government while it is the holder or insurer of the outstanding Series
2009 Bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.26 GRADUATION.
   So long as the government is the holder of any of the Series 2009 Bonds, the
District and this chapter shall be subject to the existing loan agreement
between the District and the government effected by the loan resolution
therefor adopted by the Board; and the terms of the loan resolution are
incorporated herein as if set forth in full. The words GOVERNMENT and RURAL
DEVELOPMENT, as used from time to time in various portions of the bond
ordinance codified in this chapter shall be deemed to refer to the government,
acting through the applicable agency thereof. If at any time it shall appear to
the government that the District may be able to obtain a loan from a
responsible cooperative or private credit source at reasonable rates and terms
for loans for similar purposes and periods of time, the District will, at the
government’s request, apply for and accept the loan in sufficient amount to pay
the government’s loan (i.e., the Series 2009 Bonds) in full. This graduation
requirement may not be altered by the defeasance of the Series 2009 Bonds.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 61.27 PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be published in pamphlet form
and shall be effective immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 62: WATERWORKS REVENUE BONDS (2024)
Section
   
62.01   Incorporation of preambles
   
62.02   Determination to incur loans and issue bonds
   
62.03   Loans and bonds not indebtedness
   
62.04   Application for loans
   
62.05   Acceptance of loan agreements
   
62.06   Outstanding bonds
   
62.07   Additional ordinances
   
62.08   Declaration of official intent
§ 62.01 INCORPORATION OF PREAMBLES.
   The Board hereby finds that the recitals contained in the preambles to this
chapter are true and correct and do incorporate the preambles into this chapter
by this reference. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the applicable acts.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 62.02 DETERMINATION TO INCUR LOANS AND ISSUE BONDS.
   It is necessary and in the best interests of the District to construct the
project for the public health, safety and welfare, in accordance with the plans
and specifications, as described, that the system be operated in accordance
with the provisions of the applicable acts, and that for the purpose of
constructing the project as aforesaid, the District proposes issuance of the
bonds in one or more series and entering one or more loan agreements in an
aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,679,000.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 62.03 LOANS AND BONDS NOT INDEBTEDNESS.
   Repayment of the bonds and the loans by the District shall be solely from
revenues of the system, and the bonds and the loans shall not constitute an
indebtedness of the District within the meaning of any constitutional or
statutory limitation.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 62.04 APPLICATION FOR LOANS.
   The Chairman is hereby authorized to make application to the IEPA for the
loans in accordance with the requirements of the programs and to negotiate all
terms of the loan agreements.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 62.05 ACCEPTANCE OF LOAN AGREEMENTS.
   The Board shall authorize the Chairman to accept the final loan agreements
and the loans through the programs, including all terms and conditions of the
loan agreements as well as all special conditions contained therein and made a
part thereof by reference. The funds borrowed shall be used solely for the
purposes of the project as approved by the IEPA in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the loan agreements.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 62.06 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   (A)   The District has the following obligations payable from the revenues
of the System:
      (1)   The District’s Waterworks Revenue Bonds, Series 2009;
      (2)   The District’s Waterworks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2016; and
      (3)   The District’s Waterworks Revenue Bonds, Series 2019 (collectively,
the “Existing Bonds”).
   (B)   The loans and the bonds under the loan agreements and the payment
thereof shall be subordinate to the existing bonds.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 62.07 ADDITIONAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Board may adopt additional ordinances or proceedings supplementing
or amending this chapter providing for the entering into the loan agreements
with the IEPA, the issuance and sale of the bonds, prescribing all the details
of the bonds and the loans, and providing for the collection, segregation and
distribution of the revenues of the system, so long as the maximum aggregate
principal amount of the bonds and the loans as set forth in this chapter is not
exceeded and there is no material change in the project or purposes described
herein. Such additional ordinances or proceedings shall in all instances become
effective in accordance with the applicable acts. This chapter, together with
such additional ordinances or proceedings, shall constitute complete authority
for the issuance of the bonds and the loans under applicable law.
   (B)   However, notwithstanding the above, the District may not adopt
additional ordinances or amendments which provide for any substantive or
material change in the scope and intent of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, interest rate, preference or priority of any other ordinance with
this chapter, parity of any other ordinance with this chapter, or otherwise
alter or impair the obligation of the District to pay the principal and
interest due to the programs without the written consent of the IEPA.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 62.08 DECLARATION OF OFFICIAL INTENT.
   This chapter is a declaration of official intent under Treasury Regulation
Section 1.150-2, and the District hereby declares its official intent that it
reasonably expects to reimburse capital expenditures for the project paid prior
to the issuance of the bonds with proceeds from the sale of the Bonds.
(Ord. 71, passed 9-10-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATION MAPS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date   Description
           Passed
                  A petition was filed in the Circuit Court of Sangamon County, Illinois, in
                  case Civil No. 2116-66 seeking to have certain lands therein described annexed
           1-12-  to this Water District, and after due notice and hearing the Court duly
24         1976   entered an order finding that, the petition conformed to the requirements of
                  the Illinois Statutes and described the territory, and directing that the
                  question of the annexation, of same be submitted to the Board of Trustees of
                  the Water District for final action.
                  Pursuant to said petition and order, said annexation is sought upon condition
                  that notwithstanding any ordinance of the Water District to the contrary that
                  the Water District will not pay any part of the cost of extending its water
                  main to said land sought to be annexed, even if the extension is located along
                  a township, county or state highway; and, if the District’s water main is
                  extended to the land sought to be annexed, then if a person other than the
                party bearing the cost of the extension taps onto the extension or uses the
                  extension upon which to attach further extensions. Prior to February 25, 1983,
                  the party bearing the cost of the extension, or his or her successors in
                  interest, shall be entitled to a pro rata share of his or her cost, without
                  any profit, from the person tapping on or using said extension, and the Water
                  District may determine the proper pro rata share if the persons involved
                  cannot agree on the amount.
                A plat of said lands sought to be annexed is attached to this ordinance, and
                  said lands are legally described
                  as follows, to-wit: Part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
                  Section 7, Township 16 North, Range 5 West of the Third Principal Meridian,
                  situated in the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois, bounded and
                  described as follows: Beginning at a stone at the southwest corner of said
                  Section 7 and measure thence north along the west line of said Section a
24               distance of 1,003.4 feet to an iron pin; thence eastwardly parallel to the
(Cont’d)        south line of said Section, a distance of 792 feet to an iron pin; thence
                  south parallel to the west line of said Section 7 a distance of 792 feet to an
                  iron pin; thence west 277.75 feet to an iron pin; thence south 211.4 feet to
                  an iron pin in the south line of said Section; thence west along the south
                  line of said Section a distance of 514.25 feet: to an iron pin; containing
                  16.9 acres, more or less;
                  Also, part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 18 in
                  Township 16 North, Range 5 West of the Third Principal Meridian, situated in
                  the County of Sangamon and the State of Illinois, bounded and described as
                follows: beginning at a stone at the northwest corner of said Section and
                  measure thence eastwardly along the north line of said Section, a distance of
                  514.25 feet to an iron pin; thence south 350 feet to an iron pin; thence west
                  parallel to the north line of said Section, 514.25 feet to an iron pin; thence
                  north 350 feet to the place of beginning; containing 4.13 acres, more or less.
                  A petition was filed in the Circuit Court of Sangamon County, Illinois, as
                  case No. 00-FD-00004 seeking to have certain lands therein described annexed
           6-22-  to this Water District and, after notice and hearing, the Court, on June 13,
38         2000   2000, entered an order finding that the petition conformed to the requirements
                  of the Illinois Public Water District Act, and directed that the question of
                  the annexation of the lands be submitted to the Board of Trustees of the Water
                  District for consideration.
                  Upon receiving a signed copy of the Circuit Court order, the Chairperson of
                  the Board of Trustees of the Water District called a special meeting of the
38                Board to consider the question of annexing the territories described in the
(Cont’d)       order, being (annexing to the District the following described property) all
                  that territory in either Gardner Township or Curran Township not now included
                  in the District and Sections 7 and 18 of Springfield Township, all located in
                  Sangamon County, Illinois.
           6-12-  A petition, in writing, was presented to the Circuit Court of Sangamon County,
48         2007   signed by owners of real property in the territory described in the petition
                  requesting annexation of the property described.
                  A public hearing before the Honorable Leslie Graves was held on June 7, 2007,
                pursuant to statute, and notice thereof was published in the State-Journal
                  Register on May 12, 2007.
                  After the public hearing, an order was entered by Judge Graves that the
                petition complied in all respects with the statutory provisions regarding
                  annexation of property.
                The annexation of such territory is deemed necessary for the welfare of the
                  residents of the Curran Gardner Townships Public Water District.
                  There is hereby annexed to the Curran Gardner Townships Public Water District,
                County of Sangamon and the State of Illinois, incorporated within the
                  boundaries thereof, the following territory:
                Sections 33, 34, 35 and 36 in Township 16 North, Range 7 West of the Third
                  Principal Meridian, and Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16 and
48               17 in Township 15 North, Range 7 West of the Third Principal Meridian, all
(Cont’d)        located in Sangamon County, Illinois.
                 
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATION MAPS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2904dc5df8aa26576fcc05651295a63e95aa12fd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-424.png]
 
(Ord. 48, passed 6-12-2007)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2904dc5df8aa26576fcc05651295a63e95aa12fd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-426.png]
(Ord. 24, passed 1-12-1976)
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Acceptance of a water easement for value received, Games
                     R. McAfee, Betty J. McAfee, Raymond McAfee and Randy
                     McAfee convey and grant unto the District an easement to
72       11-12-2024  install, operate, maintain and replace a water line under
                     and across part of the northwest quarter of Section 6,
                     Township 15 North, Range 6 west of the 3rd P.M. bounded as
                     follows:
                     Beginning at the southwest corner of said quarter section;
                     thence north 17.78 chains (1,173.48 feet); thence east
                     along the south line of the Springfield and Jacksonville
                     State Road 435.42 feet; thence south 1,204.53 feet to the
                     south line of said quarter section; thence west (6.73)
                   chains (444.51 feet) to the place of beginning, the said
                     easement being ten feet in width lying five feet on each
                     side of a line in the center of said tract running north
                     and south from the said south line of the Springfield and
                     Jacksonville State Road to property heretofore sold and
                     conveyed by grantors to Henry Greenholdt and Diana
                     Greenholdt; Situated in the County of Sangamon.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
      
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
      
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
 
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                 Code Section
ILCS 220/1 et seq.         51.02;
                           53.01
5 ILCS 70/1.01             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29             10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                10.04
5 ILCS 220/1 et seq.       52.02
5 ILCS 220/3               52.01
5 ILCS 220/5               52.01
65 ILCS 5                  10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1            10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1          10.99
65 ILCS 5/11-135-1 et seq. 52.02;
                           51.25
70 ILCS 3705/0.01 et seq.  52.02
70 ILCS 3705/9             52.01
70 ILCS 3705/10            52.01
70 ILCS 3705/23            31.06
415 ILCS 5/14.2            42.01
415 ILCS 5/14.3            42.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188           10.02
415 ILCS 55/1 et seq.      42.02
710 ILCS 5/1 et seq.       51.12;
                           51.33
701 ILCS 3705/0.01 et seq. 51.25
815 ILCS 333/1 et seq.     10.02
820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.  20.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                    
43       - -         50.01;
                     50.02
64       - -         52.01—
                     52.14
                     31.01—
67       - -         31.08;
                     31.99
                     30.01—
                     30.03;
                     30.05—
12       8-26-1968   30.07;
                     30.09—
                     30.13;
                     30.99
24       1-12-1976   TSO Table I;
                     TSO Table II
25       2-9-1976    40.01—
                     40.03
38       6-22-2000   TSO Table I
47       6-12-2007   60.01—
                     60.25
48       6-12-2007   TSO Table I;
                     TSO Table II
50       8-2-2007    60.40—
                     60.42
51       8-14-2007   30.08
54       9-8-2009    61.01—
                     61.27
                     30.02;
                     30.04;
55       1-12-2010   30.05;
                     30.08;
                     30.11;
                     30.13
57       11-16-2010  41.01—
                     41.08
59       2-10-2011   30.02;
                     30.08
60       7-12-2011   51.01—
                     51.13
62       10-11-2011  42.01—
                     42.05
63       10-25-2011  51.25—
                     51.35
65       3-27-2012   53.01—
                     53.11
66       6-18-2012   20.01
70       1-10-2023   30.02
71       9-10-2024   62.01—
                     62.08
72       11-12-2024  TSO Table III
                    
 
